ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:57]] 324 National MPs. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich, who was 65 years old, is a Jubilee. Let us welcome him and wish that he would work for a long time in such good health. Dear colleagues, I'll brief you on the findings of our work yesterday, Wednesday. Six bills have been considered. You know, 90 MPs have been asked. Statements were made by authorized representatives of MPs and factions with statements, information, reports. Six bills have been considered. Of these, two were accepted, one was rejected, one was directed at rereading the first reading one and accepted in the first reading two. This is about the inaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The session schedule for today, on Thursday, your honorary colleagues, you have, it's agreed by MPs and factions, we're moving to work. The first question to be considered is the presentation of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2005. Dear colleagues, what are the requirements of the Budget Code for submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act? The presentation is made in accordance with article 39 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the Ukrainian Minister of Finance is presenting the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs reports on the compatibility of the draft State Budget Act with the requirements of the Budget Code, the main directions of budgetary policy for 2005 and the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the main directions of budgetary policy for 2005. According to the outcome of the discussion, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide to adopt a draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for consideration or to reject it in the event of non-compliance with the Budget Code and the main directions of budgetary policy for 2005 and the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for it, adopted in accordance with part six of article 33 of the Budget Code. This is the time limit for consideration of this question: report by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarova - up to 30 minutes, answers to questions - up to 15 minutes, report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on questions relating to the budget of Petr Alexiyyevich Prashenko - up to 20 minutes, answers to questions to the rapporteur - up to 15 minutes, statements by representatives of MPs and groups, committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, national deputies - 40 minutes, decision-making, closing word - five minutes. No objections? Please, Mikola Janović, I invite you to the report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In line with the rules of current budgetary legislation, the government has developed and is today presenting a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget. The stage of improving the fiscal policy that our government gave up was quite complex. Let me remind you: December 2002 was the first step towards achieving a balanced real budget. The changes made to the 2002 budget, instead of the unrealistic planned privatisations, increased the level of borrowing, thus allowing for a reduction in creditors' debt. For the first time in a year, it was possible to implement the income portion of the general budget in December by 100.8 per cent of the plan, whereas the percentage of implementation in 11 months was only 93 per cent. The main summary of the previous phase was to overcome the chronic budget failure. And not just overcoming, but a significant increase in basic economic performance in recent years. Thus, in 2003, macroeconomic stability and budgetary discipline were ensured, structural reform was enhanced, and social guarantees extended to a wide range of citizens. In 2004, we entered with the following results: GDP growth exceeded the average of this figure in the previous three years and stood at 9.3 percent, double the wage gap, increased pensions and social benefits, provision of military personnel, scholarships for students, and a 30 percent increase in the salaries of budget workers. Budget debt for budget workers and social assistance for families with children has been fully repaid. First of all, the government budget's income and expenditure is 100 percent. In the current year, not only has economic growth been maintained but there has been every effort to further consolidate this positive trend. The results achieved in eight months of the current year will allow us to move forward with confidence, although, of course, serious and stressful work is ahead. We have a real gross domestic product growth rate of 13.6 percent. Saving the positive external trade surplus is $2.4 billion, which has made the exchange rate stable. The debt from the Chernobyl spending has been fully repaid. Ukraine’s eight-month operating budget is over 53 billion dollars, which is 6.4 billion, or 21 percent, more than last year’s. The revenue of the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine in eight months was made on January-August 101.7, which is 4.2 billion dollars higher than last year's. The local budget resource base has been strengthened. The income portion of the local budgets reached 24.4 billion dollars. Last year, an additional 3.2 billion dollars, or more than 15 percent, were received. Subsidies and grants to local budgets are listed as a percentage of the total. The way in which domestic government bonds are issued is to pay off the budget debt from unpaid tax amounts to the added value with an extended repayment period of about two billion dollars. Remote transactions have been made in the external borrowing market. Yes, there has been a reduction in the middle-weight interest rate on external capital markets from 12 per cent in 2000 to 5.3 per cent in 2004, allowing effective fiscal and debt policies to be implemented. The state budget dynamics in the current year provide a good foundation and a stable basis for taking not only ambitious but well-designed and balanced decisions on the continuation of economic and social reforms next year. Next year, we're going to enter with stable positive dynamics in the budget area. This is the result of the consistent, effective and responsible policy of our government to implement the structural and innovative reconstruction strategy of the economy, the priorities of the state's social policy. Ukraine's economic and social development forecast for 2005 is based on Ukraine's economic growth trend at a rate projected to be one of the highest in the world community. The main thrust of the budget next year is the strong social programme, the promotion of economic development through increased public expenditure and the transfer of parts of the mandate to the regions with adequate reinforcement of adequate resources. The main parameters of the income and expenditure of the budget for the following year can be seen on the slides. Yes, the revenue forecast for the next year is 110.5 billion dollars. The weight of the total fund of the consolidated budget in 2005 will be about 76 percent. In 2003, it was 77 percent, in 2004, about 80 percent, confirming the reality of budget plans. Expenditures and loans for the next year are projected at 118 billion dollars, 26.2 billion dollars, or about 30 percent more of today’s plan. I want to focus your attention on the following. The government has defined and involved as many resources as possible, including tax debt, in the formation of budgetary indicators. Thus, in the next year’s draft budget, income is strained but realistic. First. The share of the income distribution of the budget is 28.5 percent next year because of GDP. In fact, in 2003, this figure was also 28.5 percent, and in eight months 2004 it was 28 percent. That is, the share of the income of the consolidated GDP budget for 2005 is saved at the level achieved. It's different. The increase in the consolidated budget in 2005 is justified and is explained by the steady rise in real GDP: 2003 - 9.4 percent, 2004 - expected 12.4, 2005 - forecast 8.6 percent. Real GDP has reached a record 113.6 percent since the beginning of this year. The real GDP growth expected this year at 12.4 percent is the basis for next year's arrival. Third. Technology is improving in the administration of budget revenues, not in the reinforcement of fiscal pressure. The revenue part of the budget provides part of revenue, such as the repayment of tax debt, which will result in targeted financing of budget expenditure, which will primarily stimulate the execution of such revenue. That is, if previously the debt owed to the budget was written down according to the law of Ukraine, the following year it would be used to solve social problems, to unlock economic blood clots. As a result, this is the solution to systemic problems by paying off tax debt. Fourth. This year, the final issue of VAT compensation will be resolved, and this gives us reason to plan an increase in income from this tax. The outstanding debt, which at the beginning of the year amounted to 3 billion dollars, has now declined to 295 million dollars. For the first time, the budget for the following year does not provide funds to pay off the terminated VAT. Let's go. Let's go, In the current year, it is planned to pay off the wages of employees. In every enterprise, there is a great deal of money turnover, such as the agricultural sector, which is a separate industry. And that will enable them to increase their production volume and profit. Which, in turn, gives us reason to plan the increase in income tax revenues. And the last. Internal consumption is increasing due to wage increases, pensions, scholarships, social benefits, which are also an impetus for the development of our economy and an appropriate tax base. Where else can the budget come from? There are state programmes approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the government for which substantial financial resources were planned. The program aims to promote the development of different sectors of the economy. In recent years, however, these funds from the budget have actually begun to come to businesses. And this is once again the rise of basic macro indicators, and therefore the main fiscal taxes. Finally, the 2005 revenue forecast was made using scientific approaches. Together with scientists, developed methods and models for forecasting tax revenue into the budget. In particular, when calculating the amount of VAT, a methodology was used to reflect economic indicators such as household end and consumer expenditure, the gross accumulation of capital, consumer demand. But at the same time, we have a projection of the consolidated budget for the basics. income, funding costs for the next 3 years and long-term prospects. If we plan to completely eliminate debt in the following year, in 2005 and 2006, we can continue tax reforms to reduce tax rates and reduce the level of GDP redistribution through the budget. To date, a qualified government team is working to ensure implementation of the 2003 budget, a budgeted rate of 8 months of the current year and will be able to implement the 2005 budget in the parameters in which it is presented. The 2005 budgets take into account certain actions. The factors that are inherent in the economy of Ukraine. So this is not going to affect the planned coming next year, as you know at the end of 2005, consumer price index is expected at +6.2%, and the producer price index is going to be 5.3%. Overall, the socio-economic development of the country, the rise in macroeconomic indicators, the further steps in tax reform will ensure a significant increase in tax revenues in gross domestic product in the future. Next, according to the requirements of the budget resolution, the deficit threshold in 2005 is 1.3% of GDP, which is 0.9% less than the plan for the current year. Thus, the government budget deficit in 2005 is estimated at nearly 5 billion dollars, of which 1.1 billion dollars is funded by the loans of international financial institutions, the rest 3.9 billion dollars -- coming from the privatisation of state property. The principle is that the deficit is planned methodically, since privatization under financial statistics is included in the financing section. As in recent years, the government will not engage in consumer borrowing. So for 2005, the amount of government borrowing is projected at 8.7 billion dollars, which is 1.3 billion dollars or 12 percent less than the current year’s plan. At the same time, the amount of government debt payments is projected at 8.8 billion dollars, about 180 million dollars less than the 2004 plan. In 2004, debt service in the general budget of the State budget was 5.6 percent. And the following year, it's going to go down to 4.7 percent, indicating a reduction in the cost of the budget. So taking into account the real situation in the external market and the state of the internal market of capital, this amount of borrowing is as possible to preserve macroeconomic stability, the positive trend in optimising debt burden on the budget, and this in turn is the basis of the government's austerity policy to improve the core indicators that characterize the marginal government debt threshold. The ratio of government direct and guaranteed debt to GDP for 2005 is expected to be 21 percent, almost three times lower than the critical level. For 2004, 25 percent is expected. And I want to remind some economists that, according to the Budget Code and the Ukrainian National Bank Act, emissions cannot be a source of funding for budget expenditure, even more. For the first time in 2004, the government began to service the credits of the National Bank of 10 years ago. And in accordance with article seven, the Ukrainian National Budget 2005 bill provides for the repayment of some 265 million dollars in debt. In addition, the government will pay part of the debt in 2005 on domestic government debt to pay off the long-term budget debt for the added value. Regarding the 2005 inter-budgetary approach. Government policies continue to provide support for the development of regions. A well-established local budget position, a positive trend in all taxes and a trend in the growth of key macroeconomic indicators affecting incomes, has enabled the forecasting of local budgets for 2005 to reach 17.3 billion. The amount of money that is 14 percent higher than expected arrivals in 2004. There is an increase in the share of local budgets in the consolidated budget, which for the first time reached more than 43 percent. It should be noted that the mechanism to increase part of the local budget expenditure cannot be the determining direction of the State’s budgetary policy. Full inventory of the powers and relationships of state and local authorities and self-government should be carried out, they should be clearly identified in the laws and only then determined the proportions of the distribution of resources between the State and the regions. In 2005, the increase in local budget expenditure will be 22 percent on the general fund, including an estimated cost of more than 29 percent. The 2005 budget project envisions an increase in investment in human capital by increasing expenditure on education and health as priority areas, including through improvements in the allocation of inter-budgetary transfers. The most important issue is to ensure that the minimum wage level is raised. Local income figures have added over 3.3 billion to ensure that inter-employment ratios are maintained. For the first time, in order to improve the material base of budgetary institutions, there are additional costs for current capital repairs -- about 200 million dollars. That's right. According to the State budget, more than 1.8 billion are planned for the region. Money on centralized programs - health care, education, immunoprophylactics, tuberculosis control, oncology, diagnostic equipment, insulin, school bus, computerization of rural schools, and so on. In addition, the 2005 budget includes a subsidy from the State budget to local governments to implement disaster bias and prevent technological catastrophes in housing and utilities and to implement investment projects worth 900 million dollars. The main priority of the 2005 State Budget project is social orientation. This is not only evident but also natural, for every decision that is made calls for a person to see. In recent years, therefore, social spending — including social protection, social security, health care, education, cultural and physical development — has been the focus of considerable attention. The development of the draft budget for 2005 took into account the main objectives of medium-term budget policy, such as promoting a pre-eminent increase in the rate of real income of the population, particularly in terms of wages compared to GDP. History is familiar with examples of such policies that produce the desired results. There are fundamental calculations and explanations on each direction of the proposed bill. So I'm going to build on my presentation, stressing what was done for the first time, and you can see that on the slides. For the first time, social spending has reached its maximum level -- almost 55 percent. In particular, the project has planned additional expenditure for an increase of 20.6 per cent of the staff of the budget institutions with the aim of introducing a minimum wage of 262 dollars from 1 January 2005 to maintain inter-employment ratios, which is about 5 billion dollars. Increasing the minimum wage is one of the factors that directly affect population income growth. For the gradual recovery of the previously impaired ratios in the salaries of budget workers, measures have been taken to increase the level of pay. During the last two years, the average monthly budget salary has doubled. On slides, you can see how the wages of educational, health and health workers have changed and what levels are planned to reach in the following year. But we don't stop at that. We have a clear plan of action for the medium term and a step-by-step reform in pay. But all expenses must be provided with financial resources. It should be borne in mind that since 2005, there has been an increase in the social benefits of taxing income from 61 bracelets to 130 dollars. This will allow not only nominally but also real increase in citizens’ income. Today’s government has given considerable attention to the implementation of pension reform, which is a major achievement of which is the preservation of a positive trend towards increasing the cost of pensions and benefits. I will note that in September of this year, the government, in agreement with the Budget Committee, introduced a monthly state-of-the-art pension assistance to pensioners, whose size is lower than the subsistence minimum, for those who have lost their jobs: 264 bracelets 69 copies. You're making a decision that's very well-founded. The government has taken a decisive step towards increasing social standards only when it is fully convinced that economic growth, significant improvements in income from the Pension Fund and taxes on the budget provide the necessary financial resources. We do not expect that this supplement will solve all the problems that are in citizens’ pensions. However, the concept of the solution was solved. For the first time, the State has implemented and implemented 46 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly state that pensions, other social benefits and aid, which are the main source of existence, should ensure a standard of living no less than the subsistence minimum established by law. That's why we consider such a decision by the government historically, and for the future we assume that the task of the government, the implementation of pension reform and the withdrawal of pensions to a level worthy of the lives of our citizens is a priority. Yes, in the 2005 State Budget project, total expenditure is projected. Ukraine’s pension fund for pensions and relief amounts to 5.1 billion without taking into account the pensions of military personnel, which will double the planned expenditure of the current year. During the current year, expenditure for the provision of assigned payments of some 3 billion dollars will be funded from surplus incomes to the budget, as well as from the increase in the income of the Pension Fund, and from the increase in own income of the Pension Fund, primarily due to the growth of the Labour Fund, as well as from the transfers of the State Budget and other sources of the Pension Fund of Ukraine. The budget of the Pension Fund in 2005 is projected to be balanced and inefficient. I'll give you two more digits. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the budget of the Pension Fund for income of 31.8 billion as of 11 March of this year. Now we have 36 billion. According to previous estimates, the pension fund's income for 2005 is projected at 43.6 billion dollars, i.e. we already have about 12 billion dollars of income growth of the Pension Fund, and we all know that the pension fund's budget is approved after the adoption of the State Budget Act, and we will not allow any speculation on the lack of resources for pension payments when Ukraine's State Budget Act 2005 is finally approved. We're also introducing a rule that, if necessary, will cover the amounts in the temporary cash breaks of the Pension Fund at the expense of a single treasury account of the State Budget. [[Article 68]] In 2005, nearly 1 billion dollars are planned to increase the military’s pension expenditure, three times the average pension rate. One and a half times the calculated size used in determining the amount of State social assistance. For the first time, it is envisaged that citizens' money savings in the Savings Bank will be paid off by paying off the citizens' debt for energy consumption as a result of the debt of the past years of the companies of the FHC, a fuel-energy complex of 6 billion dollars in tax payments to the budget. In the absence of debt, it is proposed that citizens pay 20 percent of the current payments. In addition to the social dimension, these calculations in 2005 will allow for the reform of housing and utilities. For the first time, the budget for the following year provides 690 million sums to compensate unpaid teachers and academic and pedagogical workers for their years and to assist in granting annual leave in accordance with article 57 of the Education Act. It is estimated that expenditure on educational services in general is three times higher than that in 2000 and is estimated at nearly 22 billion dollars. It is worth noting that 400 million dollars are to be added to this amount, which is planned for the following year, as compensation to citizens for the costs paid for training in vocational and higher education institutions through the tax benefit system. This is the instrument that will be implemented for the first time. For the first time in 2005, budget expenditure is foreseen for the preparation of experts on contractual and competitive principles, resulting from the volume of government procurement. In doing so, spending in this direction increases by about 40 percent and is protected by next year’s budget. The project provides a concentration of resources to address urgent health issues. Thus, the expenditure of the consolidated health budget in the following year will rise against the current year’s figures, nearly two billion dollars. Compared to 2000, there are 7.7 billion dollars or 2.6 times. The following year we will celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders. In this regard, for 2005, veterans are to be announced for the year and double the annual annual annual financial assistance to war veterans. The cost of eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster will remind us of the terrible events of the past. And this year we can confidently say that we were completely in debt. At the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u3	Allow me, your honor, to complete the First Vice Prime Minister's report. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u4	At the same time, we continue to make positive progress in increasing current spending on the social protection of black people. The rate of growth for the following year varies at 20 percent, and under such a program as comprehensive health care for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the increase is double. On the screen you can see the size of a one-time monthly aid. Next. For the first time since the following year, expenditure is proposed to be approved by the National Budget Act, with a separate spending on consumption and development expenditure. The nominal amount of the development budget is going to be 23.8 billion dollars. Development expenditure is expected to be generated through research into the development of state development programmes, other investment costs in the real economy and capital expenditure, including a special purpose. Previously, when we didn't do the income part, we only paid social costs while cutting capital, and now in the last two years we've been increasing and spending 100% on PC, industry, the coal sector, which is the real sector of the economy, which then, in turn, pays taxes on the budget. In the short run, I'm not going to count all the differences in the proposed project, I'm just going to stop at the so-called real sector and the targeted programs. There has been an increase in the support and development costs for the agro-industry sector and the rural social infrastructure, which for 2005 are projected at 8.2 billion dollars, which is 3.1 billion dollars, or 1.6 times more than the plan for the current year, taking into account changes. The government's financial policy, which takes into account the specificities of agriculture, with its high risk to creditors and weather-climate dependence and specificity in the production costs cycles, is why we are taking all the steps to support its development. As in that year, a concentration of government budget expenditure will be made on the most important directions of agro-industrial production. You can see that on the slide. At the same time, the support and development of the agricultural sector and the village is a broader concept that penetrates other programs and other money managers and is provided in various forms of support. So our calculations are that the expenditure in this direction is much more than 10 percent of the total budget expenditure. Defence spending has achieved large numbers and quality structures that enable financial support for the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, their expansion and the resupply of the army with new technology. The Ministry of Defence's first projected spending of 164 million dollars on the transfer of housing funds to municipal property. Expenditure on non-retirement defence increases by 35 percent or 2.8 billion compared to 2004. The bill also provides for an increase of $1,279 in the average monthly salary of one officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, about twice as much as the average monthly salary of an employee in Ukraine. And one more moment. For the first time, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy costs for the transfer of social infrastructure objects on the balance of coal - mining enterprises in municipal property are estimated at about 100 million. With regard to the implementation of the 2005 Main Directions of Budget Policy. The 2005 State Budget project takes into account most of the guidelines approved by the Supreme Council for the main directions of budgetary policy for the following year. So the total of 115 offers and errands is 96, partially counted 18. The question is, Why has the government failed to take into account individual proposals made by national deputies in their entirety? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the main thrusts of fiscal policy for 2005 were adopted by you on June 24th and that the Supreme Council had already concluded the session on July 1st. Since these proposals require changes to valid legislative and regulatory acts or the adoption of new ones, which will certainly take a long time, they have not been adequately reflected in the 2005 draft State Budget Act. Such projects include: the Tax Code adopted in the second reading; amendments to the Budget Code; the draft Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for Grants to the State Budget, which was not even considered in the session hall or elsewhere. Ukraine's draft State Budget 2005 is a document that, on the one hand, takes into account the legislative framework for reducing the tax burden on Ukraine's economy and, on the other hand, the need to address urgent socio-economic issues and fully complies with the principles of building the government's budget system and the government's action programmes, consistency, efficiency, responsibility. The adoption of this bill will contribute to financial stability in the state. Therefore, the government urges you to do what is necessary for the full, objective and impartial consideration and approval of the 2005 and the timely budget, as well as for the prevention of distortions or manipulation of calculations. In the light of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, he requests that the draft Ukrainian Act "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2005" be adopted for consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the First Deputy Prime Minister's report has been completed. Please sign up for the question. We agreed for 15 minutes on a question. Please sign in. On the board, indicate the names of the national deputies that have been registered. Valery Assadchev, please. A total of 70 national deputies were enrolled in questions from the site. Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Mikola Janovich, I wanted you to answer two very important social questions that concern our pensioners today, first of all, and investors. Even so, in the 2005 budget there is a provision for pension payments up to the minimum of living, which government is now trying to buy pensioners? Because according to our calculations, it's about 12 billion. The bracelet, and we don't see them at the Pension Fund yet. And the second. I want you to explain to the Supreme Council the procedure for so-called interaccounts with the funds that were in our investors' accounts for six billion. Who's going to cheat? How can you tell which discounts this will be, and why is it not made living money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u7	I already answered that question in the report. The pension fund budget for the following year, which will be approved after the adoption of the budget, will provide sufficient funds for the payment of national aid to the minimum cost of living. On the second question, the report on the slide also clearly shows how transactions will be made between investors of the former Sbergbank of the Soviet Union and debts for housing and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u8	Yes, Sergey Matvienko instead of Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u9	All normative documents will be approved by the government and clarifications given by December 1st of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u10	Matthews instead of Boyka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u11	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Nikolai Janović, the budget is not bad at first sight. In general, it is possible to assess the budget as a result of its implementation, as the articles will be supplemented, as the articles will be filled out, which will actually win our electorate, which will be given to Ukrainian citizens. But I would like to raise this question: there are normal conditions for raising wages for teachers, doctors and so on. It's a normal positive move. However, Nikolai Janović: the methodology or methodology for the formation of local budgets, regional budgets. Cities, industrial cities, like Mariupol, are an exception. That is, practically, the fact that we are today imposing the model that we are today putting on the rise is being hit in the same regions. That is, there is absolutely no incentive for industrial cities to work today to increase production volumes. We're creating a waiting mood. That is, the worse the city works, the more it receives from the Central Budget, the better the city works, the more it will receive exemptions. Let us, in the end, approach, look at the budget resolution, let us stop this process. What do we give birth to in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u12	You asked a difficult question. It is related to the principal function of the Power, namely, to equalize and take account of the characteristics, to reflect on industry and to generate income by region. So historically, some areas of Ukraine are highly developed, with high incomes, other areas are less developed in industrial terms, and there are areas that are almost 100 per cent subsidized, even in such areas. The task of the Government and the State, above all, is to ensure that the teacher, the doctor and any budget worker have approximately the same social development parameters. This is an extremely difficult task, and it is implemented in each State Budget Act by a method of equivalency. Well, I'll say that the method of equalization is laid down in the Budget Code, you've accepted it, the people's deputies. You voted in favour of the formula on which the income adjustment and redistribution mechanism is implemented. And that's why you have the right to change that formula. The budget is based on an existing regulatory framework and therefore sets out the approaches that exist in the Ukrainian Budget Code. And in terms of incentives, well, I'll say that local budgets have grown by a few billion, so there's an incentive. And in the 2005 budget, we will consolidate the situation, and we have already considered that we will leave in the budgets areas, cities, areas of over-planned income. We will thus encourage the development of a local income base.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u13	Mikola Janović, the National MPs are asking you to give a shorter answer because there are so many questions they want to ask. Please, Loboda. He's behind him, Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u14	Dear Mikola Janovich, until now the Cabinet of Ministers has not made any proposals for the allocation of 75 million funds for investment projects, and the financial year is almost over. And the second question. Why the negative attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers and the government as a whole toward medicine? You will see that today, the health - care industry and the Academy of Medical Sciences have been reduced by 20 percent. And in terms of GDP, it's going down from 3.2 in 2003, and project 3 is going to go down by just a percentage. 0.2 from GDP. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u15	Dear People's Deputy Loboda, you're actually speaking to the whole country because, I understand, the broadcast is coming. So if you're bringing numbers, answer for those numbers. The budget provides for a significant increase in health expenditures. I've given you these numbers on the slides, they're in the law, it's enough to open the page. But I'm going to name this dynamic specifically for the radio audience. If the total medical expenditures in 2000 amounted to 4 billion 800 million, a total of 12.6 billion is planned for 2005. And if you compare it to 2004, that's roughly 2.5 times. Yeah, for a minute. Two and a half times in a few years. Let's move on. Compare 2004 expenditure, i.e. the current year. Expenditures of 10 billion 666 million. And compared to the government's planned expenditure for the 2005 Rick. That's 12 billion 617 million. I mean, almost two billion more. But how much less do you ask about health care? What's that? As far as the budget of the Academy of Medical Sciences is concerned, we will consider this issue. In 2004, expenditure on the Academy of Medical Sciences was significantly higher than in 2003. We consider the development of the Academy of Medical Sciences to be a priority, and I think we will keep this trend in 2005. Be assured that the funding of the Academy of Medical Sciences will rise at a preliminary pace.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u16	Please, Nightmare. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u17	Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine, 160 constituency, Sumska District, Deaf. Dear Mikolo Janovich! Only the one who doesn't want to see the development of our budget in the 2003, 2004, 2005 process. But the process of budgeting itself and all the participants in the process can be divided into two stages. The first stage. Districts, city budgets are convincing us about the low income and asking us to increase the subsidy. Then there are additional arrivals, and they start asking us not to delete 50 percent, as foreseen in the 2004 budget. In particular, the proposal to change the formula is made, for example, 70 percent to leave to local budgets and 30 percent to the state budget. This will stimulate our budget participants. And to some extent, my question is linked to the problem that raised Matvienkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u18	Today we are starting the budget process. We have to go through the first reading together, the second reading. And as part of this process, we will consider proposals, debates, and I am confident that we will now accept agreed solutions. I agree with you that this problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u19	Please, Kalinchuk. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u20	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mikolo Janovich! Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine It is positive that the 2005 draft State Budget in Ukraine is based on the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code and is generally based on its position. It takes into account the main thrusts of budgetary policy and budget reform in improving the budgetary process and further developing inter-budget relations. At the same time, I support the questions that were asked by my colleague Noshchenko. And we have, personally, two questions. First. Mikola Janovich, we've been seeing you. Do you confirm the basic numbers for the agri-industrial complex we agreed on? There you can remember 9.2 billion and 7.4 billion dollars. And the second question. Is it designed to establish inter-staff, inter-qualified ratios in the salaries of budget workers? Thank you for your response, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u21	Well, first. Local budgets. Here, we come back to this problem all the time. I'd like to ask you a question. Is there one area in Ukraine, a city, an area where all social expenses are not fully paid? Where is the budget not implemented? I'm responsible: no! And if there's a people's MP who shouts here, there is! What prevents them from entering the government and stating such facts? I guarantee you that if there are such debts, the government will solve this problem within one week. There's no debt. I'm responsible. The problem in local budgets is therefore in development, in development budgets. I mean, it's clear that every local budget, and every city there and so on, an area in the course of the last, there, 15 years, we'll make it conditional to live on the principle of consumption only, and this year alone we'll be allocating 400 million bracelets from the state budget for investment projects and all over the country now are going to be repaired, put in order and so on and so forth. Already in next year's budget, we are placing 900 million grevens -- two of the main problems of local budgets. So when we looked at the Ministry of Finance, all the areas went through us, absolutely. We put the problem first. Yes, we said, with wages we decided, with social benefits we decided, now it's our job to move on and think about development. Somewhere on the subway, somewhere in the pipeline, somewhere in the pipeline, somewhere in the building, somewhere in the schools, somewhere in the hospitals, that kind of program will be implemented in the 2005 budget and the following years. Now for the agrarian complex. We've met with you, I mean the Agrarian faction, we've discussed 7.2 billion, these 7.2 billion will be executed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u22	Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u23	Stepan Bulba, Socialist faction, please pass the word to Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u24	Please, Barranowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Mikola Janović, you know what kind of fights were made into the budget of 8 billion dollars that were voted as changes to the budget. And these changes included retirement, scholarships, Chernobyl spending, medicine, medicine, and so on. And when today’s cabinet members, let’s say the Prime Minister, rides and reports that the government has added a pension, the government has added a scholarship, in our view it is very unfair. These issues were resolved in June of this year. And I guess I should have said it the way it is. I'd like to give you an evaluation. And I have the following question. Please tell me why the Constitution is being violated and, contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, the benefits for the military are once again the ones they should use. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Baraniwsky, you may have noticed that in my report, I was ashamed to tell the whole country the size of the military's pension. I'm embarrassed. Let's draw a conclusion from that. All the pills that are available were saved in 2004. And I was embarrassed not because they were small, but because I was ashamed that other retirees would not think. We have not done what the government has done this year to equalize pensions for the military, to address the social problems of the military in any of the last 13 years. So let's not ask this question, otherwise I'm really going to be sounding the numbers. Now, as far as I'm concerned. I think it's important for the retirees to get this targeted assistance. That's what matters. And it's already paid. And then we'll split the laurels.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u27	Thank you, Milo Yanovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Prashenko Petr Alexiyovich, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Something to do with the microphone. A few years ago, the presentation of the budget was a matter of great interest in the hall. You know, right now, I'm just surprised that when we make a presentation of the budget we have no attention, no interest from the people's deputies in this key document, the economic constitution of the country, doesn't exist. I'd like to get your attention anyway, because this year, 2005 is going to be a turning point in the economy. I have a decision to make yesterday's meeting with the Committee on Budgets. By the way, I would like to point out, Sir Adam Ivanovich, that according to 39 articles of the Budget Code, the function of the Budget Committee is to inform the Supreme Council of the compliance of the Government's draft Budget Code. The main thrust of budgetary policy for unclear reasons was that people's deputies were deprived of the opportunity to familiarize themselves with yesterday's decision by the budgetary committee; it was not distributed in the hall because the apparatus said that it was inappropriate to do so. I would ask that we remove this inadequacy so that you can assign decisions to the budget committee. Secondly, the committee in its decision noted the social orientation of this budget for the following year and you can see it in the text of the decision. Yesterday, 16 national deputies voted in favour of the government, which was part of the God - given parliamentary majority. The two national deputies voted in favour of the decision by giving the votes for the commission. The decision highlights the main observations and inadequacies of the draft Law on the Budget Code and the budgetary resolutions, as well as the recommendations and assignments of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Among the positive points were that, at last, after the Supreme Council had adopted the Law against which the government had been firm, by the way, on the restructuring of the debt from payments provided for in article 57 of the Education Act and in accordance with that law, payments were made on a phased basis to non-payments paid in 97-2000 to pedagogical and scientific and pedagogical workers for benefits of seniority, the government had to take these expenses into account in the 2005 budget project. And that's a positive. At the same time, the decision noted the inadequacy of the draft budget law with some provisions of the budget resolution and the budget code. In particular, the government is invited to suspend the rules governing the mechanism for the collection of taxes from the income of individuals to the local budgets. What is it? About 600 million dollars, which are the income base of local budgets, the revenues paid by military personnel, the government removes from local budgets and takes into the Central Budget. This practice was justified because it was introduced in 2004. No explanation was given as to why the resources of the local budgets were taken in 2005 in spite of the requirements of the Budget Code. Without order, the government decided to allow local authorities to borrow. It is not clear when, how, and who will give them away. More than ten articles of the draft budget do not match or conflict with the budget code. Almost half of the appointments and proposals of the Supreme Council by the government in the draft budget are either unaccounted for or partially accounted for. Unaccounted for in the Budget Resolution on implementation, for example, since 2005 only a tariff network. I would like to refer to the management of the court unions that are not in this room: how do they support a government that does not comply with the requirement of a single tariff network, and why are they not in the hall today to defend the interests of the workers? the following, the non-compliance with the ban on the increase in the number of executive authorities and the application of measures to reduce them in 2005 is no less than 10 percent. This was a clear commission that the Supreme Council voted on reducing officials and bureaucrats. Dear colleagues, respected radio audiences, and television audiences! During this year, Ukraine's 2004 population declined by more than 400,000. During the same year, the number of executive officials and those who receive a salary from the budget increased by more than 13,000. If we go at this rate, we have more officials today than the population. The committee formally reported on all these inconsistencies, but given the timetable of forces, a decision was made to recommend to the Supreme Council that the budget be taken into consideration. Once again, I would like to stress that all representatives of the so - called former majority should be voted for. Frankly, we were forced to consider this position because the better budget would not be given by this government. I am absolutely convinced that in the presentation of the budget, in what way are they going to finance the promises that the Prime Minister makes during the election campaign, he should respond and be present today, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister, including this function, does not. I'd like to stop, and I'd like to look at some of the basic things that are contained in the draft budget. First. We always started with the income part of the budget. Everybody's got an osmosis that the government is proud of 13-14 percent GDP growth. As it is reflected in the revenue of this year's budget, I will not comment. But some government is predicting what will happen in the country because, despite the favourable external economic situation, at a pace of development, the government has significantly reduced the GDP forecast for the following year without any explanation to be found in the explanatory note to the State budget. I emphasize that instead of 13 - 14 percent, the government has set an eight - percent increase in GDP, which implies a loss of income, or concealment in the income section of the State Budget, of an amount measured at more than eight billion dollars. Do we have reason to say so? Of course, the Budget Committee will propose to the Supreme Council a detailed calculation of the income base of the budget, the distribution by contingent, and certainly we will, as in the past and past years, prove once again to the government that it is not worth hiding the income of the budget. At the same time, I would like to highlight other very important macro indicators. In particular, I'd like to stop for inflation. Dear colleagues, a month ago, when, as a member of the Board of the National Bank, the only one stressed that our country was on the threshold of ambiguous inflation, that is, not 5.5 and not 6.2 as we tried to impose the government, and that inflation would be more than 10 percent this year, then the government defiantly commented that this was not possible and that the position of the powder should not be taken into account. Today, inflation figures are calling out from the shelves of shops, from the prices of food in markets, from government officials driving by car stations, and from every gas station there is a disgrace to the Prime Minister, who promised that before the A-95 election, the price would not exceed 2 bracelets of 90 copies. And I am convinced that these promises as this promise of the prime minister were. Why, by the way, is it surprising that the prime minister was going to hold the A-95, not the diesel fuel that today is the key to providing the village? And so today, when they were administratively trying to fulfill this promise of the Prime Minister, the honourable peasants, I think you're hearing it, and I'm addressing the representatives of the agrarian faction, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party, which today has come to the point that diesel fuel is already costing in certain regions more than 95th gasoline. What is the reason why the government is so unconcerned? I think that today, 40 days before the presidential elections, trying to spread the country so widely with oil refiners, so much after the signatures of the President's and Prime Minister's administration began to pass the Kremencuckian, Galicin's, other factories that they don't know who to turn to to to keep these prices and how to push them. And who's going to be responsible for this, I think we'll know clearly in less than 40 days. I would like to continue that the topic of inflation today is not only the price of basic food, but the cost of the consumer basket has increased almost twice as much as the inflation. And there's no way of covering or increasing by 10 percent of the wage actually the real income of the population, the real cost of living, the quality of life in Ukraine as a result of this government's actions has been reduced. The last barrier that fell as a result of such populism payments made by the government was the course. And everyone today can make sure that, despite the huge reserves of gold, the rate of money in relation to the dollar that the head of the National Bank should be responsible for instead of driving and leading the Prime Minister's headquarters, the principle of the position that the National Bank should be independent of the government, and any citizen of another country does not understand how the head of the National Bank can lead the headquarters of the same Prime Minister. And the best estimate is given by the Ukrainian people, who see that in the absence of the head of the National Bank, we already have a course instead of 5,30 - 5,41; 5, 42; and at the course, prices will necessarily go down. I'd like to answer Mr. Kalinchuk in the village, on the questions he asked very politely, as the first Vice-Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Kalinchuk! Ladies and gentlemen, members of the People's Agrarian Party! You've been tricked. Have no illusions. These 10 percent, as recorded in the Budget Resolution, are not there. And even the 8 billion that have been recorded and supposedly raised today on the screens of this screen, the 1 billion that have been set up in a special fund, is financed by income from the poor, including 800 million construction of gas pipelines in the countryside, for which you will be asked, including 200 million when you create the fund. And for this special fund, so-called unreliable arrivals, no one from the government is going to answer. Along with what they took to the peasants? From January 1st to the peasants, they took the tax benefit to the added value. And every peasant will pay 20 percent, and of the 7 billion who supposedly offered the village this government and, this prime minister. Billions of dollars will go to the banks, the peasants won't get there, billions will go to the factories to compensate the complex technology just for the amount they're going to rob and defraud the village, billions will go to the buyers. Don't give me any illusions. This budget won't come back. Question one, demand that the living money be funded by 10 percent of the budget resolution. Another macroindicator is strange enough. Everyone knows that the government has put 118 billion dollars in the budget in macro indicators. I'd like you to open up a second volume and see the medium term, the government's medium-term plans for 2006, and you'll see that when the 2005 budget is 118 billion, the 2006 inflation budget is 117 billion, one billion less. Yesterday we asked the government officials how it happened. We've been told that, Your Honor, in 2006, we have only planned for one year a so-called compensation scheme for citizens' savings. By the way, the return to the claims that were eliminated by the government of Yushchenka and to this day, the pre-emptive crisis is flourishing again in this government with the use of remittances of money. So in 2006, this scheme will no longer work, and don't hope that any of this government is going to continue to compensate citizens' savings in this amount. This is written in an open text in this budget. Now I'd like to answer the honorary colleague Matvienkov about the local budgets. You asked the right question, Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko and Sergeyev. There's a weird 7th supplement, and you can also see it in the budget project, exactly half the people, half the people's deputies, especially the elderly, won't be able to see it, because it's printed, as always, in a very small font, and it's clear without glasses, or without a magnifying glass, is impossible, who tried -- can confirm my words. What does it say? I'm going to give you a translation: The government is going to continue the shameful practice of extradition to the white and black regions of Ukraine next year. Absolutely without any legislative basis, the government plans to allocate money to certain areas whose deputies are loyal to the Prime Minister. What is it? This is a bribe to an MP. Ladies and gentlemen, respect yourselves. Don't take bribes. They're not enough for everyone. I don't want to call the territories, the specific territories, because the ones they gave to, the ones they didn't give them, the voters aren't to blame. But I'm stressing once again that there are people of Class 2 for this government. You must remember this, and we certainly must not miss this shameful practice. But most of all, what I would like to stop at is my respectable colleagues, taking into account the time deficit. At the statement of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on September 14, this year, which he made in the city of Berditchev in Žitomir district, where he made people happy, first met with pensioners and found out in two years that pensioners were living poorly, that we were increasing the minimum pension. Upon returning from Berdičev, the Prime Minister signed the draft State Budget Act, which he sent to the government. The signature says that in addition, this draft budget contains plugins of 646, if I'm not mistaken, pages. What are we reading? If we analyze the Pension Fund's funds, the Pension Fund's budgets, even when we compare 2004 and 2005, you'll see that in the 2004 budget, the government gave a detailed budget to the Pension Fund, which was made up of several pages. In 2005, the Pension Fund's income and expenditure project is hidden and consists of a half-page containing 5-6 digits. And for today, why is this done? Respectable radio audiences, respected TV setters, distinguished national MPs. The increase in the minimum pension, as promised by the Prime Minister since September of this year, will not take place and will not take place in contravention of the pension law adopted by the Supreme Council, where it is clearly regulated that pension increases can only take place with the laws of Ukraine. And any decision is illegal and can or will be rescinded immediately after the election. And what evidence is there in the signed draft of the Budget Act. Dear Mikolo Janovich, the income of the Pension Fund consists of pension contributions. I would ask for one minute, Adam Ivanovich, just to inform the national MPs. Thank you. Income is made up of pension contributions. Pensions are made up of a payroll fund. Therefore, the counsel given to you by your deputies is included in the budget. And no other income, like a faucet from a sleeve, you won't take it out. You can change the value of the Pension Fund, but if you change it, it means that you cheated on the Supreme Council when you gave a macroindicator to the payroll fund. Yesterday, the head of the fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u29	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u30	Yesterday, the head of the Boris Zajchuk Pension Fund gave a press conference stressing that the income of the Pension Fund should be 52 billion dollars a year. Dear radio listeners! The government contributed 42 billion. 10 billion. You don't have a pension in the budget! The second statement. From the State Budget, not from other sources, should be counted at the Pension Fund for eight billion. There's no money in the government project. The third position that even for payments this year is to pay these payments, which is absolutely questionable legality, but we stress that pensions are urgently needed and now, but only by law. We need 3.3 billion. The government only found 2.9. And we stress that right now we need to adopt an immediate law introduced by Victor Yushchenk's bloc on the recalculation of the Pension Fund 3.3 billion. to increase the minimum pension, rather than deceiving and slandering people by giving them a pre-election bribe. Thank you for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u31	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. We have 15 minutes. Please point it on the board. Tomenko, get the Colonies ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u32	Peter Alexiovich! Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." You know, I'm looking at what the media are showing about Parliament, worried that they're informing our citizens equally: they're saying that Parliament is politicizing the budget process, and the government is thinking about the people. As we can see, and from your statement, including, everything with the opposite: the position of the committee and the parliament to make the budget real, clear and clear, rather than make it an asset of the election campaign Janukovic. How do you feel about this problem of politics and how do you comment on the rate of increase in government debt and external debt, where we have, in the official documents that we've submitted, external debt, I say to radio and television broadcasters, will increase by 129 million in Ukraine, to almost 13 billion. This government of debtors is doing the bear service to both the people and the subsequent governments, including the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u33	Thank you, Reverend Mikolo Volodymyrovich. As far as politics is concerned, I can point out that the budget committee, where almost all factions are represented, is the largest committee in the world, by the number of national MPs a committee of parliament, set up for a completely professional, non-politicized job. Yesterday we emphasized that, and I am happy that we made a decision, where we did not support a one-page proposal, to approve or recommend to the Supreme Council a budget for consideration. Period. We have to inform, this is our duty, all the national deputies, of the conformity of the Budget Resolution, the Budget Code, the Constitution of Ukraine, so that the national deputies can have sufficient information when making decisions. The decision to adopt the recommendations of the Committee on Budgets, the adoption of the budget for consideration is that it corresponds to the timetable of the Committee on Budgets. And it's been adopted and we're still set up to have the principle of the distribution of branches of power clearly worked out, so that national MPs don't gather in government, so we don't sign the decisions of the budget committee on the sixth or seventh floor. Dear colleagues, if we go this way, we will have tomorrow's meetings of the Supreme Council at a different address, and the laws will be accepted. So I'm stressing that I'm going to do everything I can to avoid politicization and preserve the profession that we've demonstrated during the development and adoption of the State Budget in 2003. It's about government debt. Dear Mikola Janovich, you're absolutely right. Although the budget resolution clearly requires a deficit reduction, so the Supreme Council has allowed the government to borrow within one percent of GDP, the government has failed to comply with this requirement in the budget resolution by proposing a deficit of 1.3 percent in the draft budget. [[Deficiency - this means that the difference between income and expenditure releases the government into the market for borrowing]] This means that the government is going to do more borrowing next year when the economy is growing than it's going to do to get the money back from the budget. And I am absolutely convinced that this norm will be clearly not supported by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u34	Peter Alexiyovich, you have the same request as Mikola Janovich: to answer your questions more quickly. Please, Coloniari. Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u35	Colonyari, 56th District, Mariupol City I ask you to pass the word to Valery Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u36	Please, it's Konovaluka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, we have once again experienced such a political manifesto, and then you call on us not to politicize the budgetary process. I have a draft decision that was approved by the Budget Committee yesterday. You from this draft decision did not say any positive position regarding this draft budget. So that's the question. How many times does it cost: two, three, five times, to give you a positive look at this in your report? That's the first question. And I want to ask you again. Why don't you report to the Committee on Budgets, so it's also a professional committee, besides you, that the National Deputies work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u38	Thank you, Valery Illich. I report that the budget committee at my meeting I announced the decision that he had adopted, I announced the positive and negative part. If you don't like this decision, you could, or my statement, you could say it at a committee meeting or you could put it in a statement from a faction where you express your personal point of view. Now, how much does the government have to increase the income or expense to make sure that Dusty or the people of Ukraine are satisfied? On one. [[B in m in s a l in]] I thank you for your high score. I'll give you an answer. [[B in m in s a l in]] The budget has to be very real, and the government doesn't have to demonstrate what it shows for two years in a row. Unbalanced, unbalanced projections are adopted, with the retention of the income part of the 2003 budget and the 2004 budget. And if you, Valérie Illich, were to attend committee meetings as the first deputy, you would know that. Now the second one. To prove this to be true, you can see that in 2003, and in 2004, we were forced to accept, in the middle of the year, changes to the budget, which would increase the income and expenditure of the budget. But this means that for six months, Valérie Illich, people were deprived of the opportunity to raise wages, pensions, and live below the minimum wage. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u39	Please, Domansky. Get ready, Jooff.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u40	Dear Pero Alexiyovich, it is clear to me and the electorate that if one oligarch is in power, he protects both the budget and the government program. If removed from power, he begins to criticize. We understand that. If you were on Janukovich's team today, you'd be here to prove everything against us. Now, two questions for you. Tell me, the budgets that Yushchenko presented to the Supreme Council are better than today's budget, or worse, and in what? And the second question. Tell me, what did the Supreme Council of Yushchenka say she didn't believe?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Mr. Domansky! I will give you the answer that Yushchenko’s mistrust and government was expressed, not by the Supreme Council, but by the united union of the strangely combined oligarchs and Communists. And I think today is the day when the Communist Party is responsible for the position of leaders, because fewer and fewer people believe these leaders and this position. Second position. Was it better or worse than Yashchenka's budgets? Dear colleagues! They were better or worse, they were real. And if there was a possibility, the government's pensions rose not a month before the election, but all the time; the salary of the government of Yushchenka rose three months later, which he came and was elected Prime Minister, not a month before the election. And so we can make sure that it was a professional government, unlike the populist government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u42	The word is given by the national deputy, Joseph. Behind him, Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u43	Please pass the word Noshchenko to Nikolai Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u44	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I'm here. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 constituency, Trudova Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u45	Turn off the microphone. Please, Shevchenko, follow him Semenyuk. I'm asking the people's deputies to keep their ethics standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Mikhail Vasilovich Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u47	Please, Glady's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u48	Dear Peter Alexiovich! Michael Gladys, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Thank you for supporting the village. We believe that when we work on this budget in the Supreme Council, we will take these positions. I wanted to ask you a question, but you told me I would ask. Please tell me if we find other sources of funding than what you called, and the figure of 9.2 billion in total for the APC, and 7.4 for the village. Do you support yourself or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u49	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I assure you that not only am I Peter Poshenko, but the entire faction of Victor Yushchenko's block will support the increase in the village's spending because, as a result of the agricultural crisis today, the village has impoverished, as a result of the increase in the prices of fuel-oil materials, spare parts, technology, miniblatives, which this government has carried out, that I guarantee that the village today should be the top priority of the state. And 10 percent of GDP, 10 percent of the government's budget to be transferred to, and what Mr. Konovaluk is now so outraged about, criticizing you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I'm sure we're guaranteed to fund the village today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u50	Please. Dear colleagues, you're taking your time with your applause. Please, Semenyuk, get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u51	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, if you look at the appendix for the 2005 privatisation list, it can be said that today’s government is doing its best to sell the most profitable businesses, including science institutions that are not subject to privatization. So I don't have as many questions as the specific offer. Without the Special Supervisory Board's decision, without compliance with the Privatisation Act, this list will be reviewed. And the second question. Today, according to the privatization program, article 127 of the Demmeina Foundation has a so - called special fund. I mean, every day the Ministry has its own stern, including the State Property Fund. How do you view the liquidation of this fund, the suspension of article 127, and all payments to the staff of the Maintenance Foundation are made only through the budget, as provided for in the budget code. Will you consider this proposal of a special review committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u52	I thank you, Your Honor Valentina Petrovna, because the privatization of this year is a vivid example of the politics that this government is responsible for. The Supreme Council approved 2 billion dollars as coming from privatization. The day we received the budget, the privatisation was 5 billion 400 million, the government contributed and stretched through the Supreme Council 5,100. Today, overcoming the cost of selling basic, key public property items is already 4 billion dollars. And we're putting budget funding at risk in the coming years. Moreover, in this budget, the honourable Valentina Petrovna, the government is already releasing state-owned enterprises that are not corporateized from paying part of their income to the state budget, that is, the government is predicting once again that they will distribute the government without any obligation to the state budget. Of course, this position is unacceptable, we did it in 2003, and we're going to stand up for it in 2005, but the main thing is all the government budget spending, all the maintenance of government officials, all the workers working for the state, is going to happen only from the state budget. All the charity stock, the sports inventory, we can't free the hot tub from paying the added cost, as this government has now offered us, because it's going to be called a sportsman. Do you want to support sports? We're going to take money out of the government budget, these billing schemes, I'm going to stress once again, which were destroyed by the government of Yushchenka, who were returned by this government, they are guaranteed to lead to the opaque, shadowy, criminal, I'm not afraid of that word, the financial flows organized by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u53	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u54	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, have you noticed the absence of the Prime Minister in defense of the budget? It was the government that was supposed to be here in his first person. And now Azarov is gone. I think he's admitting to failing whether or not he went to prepare papers for someone else. I have a question. The new subsidies of the inadequate laws provided for in this budget are, in particular, a line in the budget that provides for the introduction of directly 60 million into the Crimean Autonomous Republic. How do you appreciate that? Because I consider it a bribe. The other one. Fifty - eighth article of the budget provides for funding without agreement with Minfin, without. Power structures. When will this stop? I don't know what the power structures are preparing for. Your grade. And one more thing. The price of gasoline is rising. The dynamics of this growth. If the dynamics continue, such a budget will cost seven dollars of gasoline by the end of the year. Is this considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u55	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I will start with the last, the government has not demonstrated in two years an understanding of the economic mechanisms, the scales that are in its hands to regulate prices. In addition to the rigid administration, the fist on the table forbids promotions that do not work, and you have found this to be true of bread, meat, gasoline, and all kinds of things, the government, its professional level, does not allow you to apply other economic measures that work around the world. I stress that the absence of the Prime Minister today demonstrates total indifference and disinterest in budgetary issues in the presentation of the budget. And what I'm doing today is explaining in my speech the problems that are in Prime Minister Janukovic's stated and signed budget, the fact that individual national MPs are so indignant and concerned, they're shouting, they're worried, they're vivid testimony that the authorities today are afraid of the truth as the cockroaches are afraid of the light. But we're going to make them answer the questions. And I assure you that the budget, which has been adopted more precisely by the Supreme Council, will be a completely different budget. Honest and transparent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u56	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. When he began his speech, his distinguished colleagues, Peter Alekseiovich, accused the apparatus of having not distributed the committee’s decisions. In response to the report of the deputy director of Yasenchuk’s Apparatus, he reports: On September 22, I repeatedly addressed the head of the Ogona Budget Committee’s secretariat with a proposal to conclude the submission to Ukraine’s 2005 National Budget project, registration number 6,000. The fire reported that the committee had not foreseen such a submission. So, Peter Alexiyovich, please take care of your secretariat and we need to reproduce, no questions asked. Please, it's Konovaluk's line. His name was mentioned. Konovaluka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, I want to talk about financing the agri-industrial complex and give an answer to Peter Alexiyovich and the distinguished national deputy Gladys. When Agrolizing refused to buy the Lenin cousin tractors in 2003, the distinguished head of the budget committee created everything to reduce funding and to cut spending under this article, on this program. Agrarians knew that. Another question is that this behavior is already having a very serious impact on the work of the committee, because we are now forced to collect a submission to the regulatory committee, because the committee cannot function fully. And this also affects the quality of the budget. And you know it all. We're going to go back to forging and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Don't shout, I hear, I hear, I hear. So let's think about it this way, I remind you again: Replics are only exchanged once when they're called names. You called the last name of Konovaluka, Konovaluk named your last name. That's the first one. The other one. I see what they want from the procedure. Please sign in. Three minutes out of the procedure. Yes, please, three minutes, point to the board. Hell, after him, he's final.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u59	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankovsky. Please pass the word to Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u60	Microphone, please, powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u61	I don't call names, but the previous MP's statement gives absolutely false information. It was thanks to the committee's principled position that we were able to increase the costs of the agrarian complex. And I insist that a few new programs were launched on the initiative of Victor Yushchenk's block. The second position that the committee's organization of work, and we can demonstrate this to our esteemed television and radio audiences, is that the committee's organization is constantly involved with 20-22 people's deputies. There is no distinguished previous MP among these deputies. It's good to go to the committee and know what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u62	Please, the Final One. None. Loboda, behind him is Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I asked the First Vice Prime Minister the first question about investment. Sadly, he did not answer, and you did not respond. There is now no Prime Minister or First Deputy Prime Minister in the Hall. What are we discussing today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u64	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the head of the Committee on Budgets has been speaking too well from the rostrum. I'm talking to you: I think we're just wasting our parliamentary time. The budget should be adopted by the government that will carry it out. This government is working for another month at most. So, dear colleagues, let's not waste time looking at this bluff that we've been offered, but we're just going to create a working group that will be based on the future parliamentary majority, and that starts to develop the budget of the new government. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u66	Yeah, we got another minute. Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I think that today we have shown our radio audiences and TV viewers that, unfortunately, discussions on professionalism in the budget are not realistic. You and I are hearing about the candidates for the Presidents, the work of the election headquarters, the timing of the elections, the fact that someone is identifying himself with the people of Ukraine, well, I'm not talking about the fact that very bad, that pensioners are getting extra money, is also bad. Here's a little bit more of this logic, I repeat, not to our colleagues, but to our radio audiences and TV viewers: a little bit more calm to see what's going on here. Regrettably, even some of the people in the room are not satisfied with how and who are trying to build their own interests on the subject of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for some of your comments, especially the National Deputy of Loboda. There's a good point, but I'd like to ask the people's deputies: if you want to get an answer to the question that hurts you the most and touches you, ask one question -- and they will definitely answer it. And if there are many questions, it is appropriate that the person who answers forgets the first question to answer the last. But let us ask Mikola Janovich when he will make a closing statement so that he will pay attention to the problem. Next. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that 40 minutes of time will be spent for the factions of factions, committees, and national deputies. So if you don't mind, let's work 40 of these minutes before making a decision, and then we'll take a break. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's take a break. Let's see. Then, please, 40 minutes to discuss the matter. It's three minutes from the factions. Please, Baranowski, the Socialist faction. Prepare the Voisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u69	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The budget discussion, his report, the report that Prašenko made, again says that the budget is unprofessional, dishonest. He'll be honest, professional when he's an honest and decent president. We choose President Frost, everything will be fine. The Socialist faction carefully examined the government's 2005 draft budget for Ukraine and considered it at its meeting. We came to the conclusion that, at first sight, GDP growth figures and budget revenues should be pleasant to Ukrainian citizens. But this is at first sight. As we analyzed it, we came to the conclusion that it is more of a populace, or more of a promise to the people, adjusted for the future election of the president. The government claims that in 2005 production prices will increase by 108.9 percent and the consumer, that is, in the market, by 107 percent. What's the point? Who's gonna sell the product cheaper than they bought? There's a sharp price jump hidden here. A sharp increase in income is offered by the government at the expense of 2 major sources. It's an increase in VAT by 11.6 billion and an increase in revenue from the Special Fund. Socialists ask where this VAT increase will come from when the tax controls come in this year are much more modest and not implemented. Such a congregation is possible only with sharp price increases, that is, with inflation. The additional 9.7 billion to the Special Forces are planned to be taxed in the past years, at the expense of the village and residential services that were provided. It is clear to everyone that these debts will not be repaid. We can't count on them, because we know where the village and the communal sphere are today. Along with this, from the funds that will come. will not come, the government proposes, more loyally misleading the population of Ukraine 6 billion to recover savings. Clearly, this will not be done, and if shadowlike schemes go off, they will simply be stolen. Of these, 800 million are planned for the village. Again, it is said that no more than three feet [1 m] of pipe will be placed in the village. We're nothing. We, dear friends, were looking again this morning. Alexander Moroz made a number of budget proposals. First. Prohibiting the budget for admission to pay and paying less than full wage, predicting free nutrition for children in preschools, in 1st and 3rd grade, spending on producing land acts so that people get them for free. To recover the lost savings, it is necessary to provide for the general fund. The socialists do not understand how the list of objects to be privatized was formed. The cost of road construction is not fully spent. That the rent for gas transit is in bracelets, not in dollars when such inflation takes place. Why is Minfin going to take credit without being part of the Supreme Council? What is this non-state pension fund for civil servants who are assigned 400 million dollars and who owns this fund?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u70	The word is from the Social Democratic Party faction. Pinzenic will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! We all understand that next year's budget is being reviewed in the context of a presidential election campaign. And that can't stop the movement and the results of this consideration. However, we must make every effort to ensure that the draft budget is objective and depoliticized. The SDPI faction categorically rejects the idea of some politicians that the new budget should be considered and adopted after the President's election and the formation of a new government. By no means should the Supreme Council impose the budgetary process on the political situation, the consequences of the struggle for power. This was irresponsible in relation to our electorate. The budgetary processes, the terms of the draft budget are clearly set out in the relevant legislation. And it is our duty to adhere strictly to these standards. The 2005 draft budget submitted to the Supreme Council is entirely in line with the new situation in Ukraine’s economy, which is linked to the record rate of economic growth achieved during the period of the government of Viktor Yanukovic. The very income figure of the budget of 110 billion dollars shows that there are, in principle, new economic opportunities that allow for a new approach to the solution of, above all, key social problems. So the cost goes up to 115 billion dollars and it's a record amount since the country was formed. The SDPI faction notes that the main feature of the draft budget is its social orientation. As a result of the social-democratic party's programming positions, we have raised the issue of increasing the social orientation of the budget for more than a year and therefore support the movement in this direction. [[united]] Overall, more than 60 percent of the budget is planned next year for social needs. It is even important to say the direction of social expenditure, which does not include an increase in the budget. In 2005, compared to this year, the average salary of doctors and teachers will be nearly double. In addition, the debt owed to teachers accumulated as a result of the failure of previous governments to comply with the requirements of article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine will begin to be repaid. Twice compared to the current year, the total expenditure on pensions and benefits increases. Thus, the government of Viktor Yanukovic proposes a real, tangible increase in social costs. And the following year will not repeat the situation of the year 2000, when the nominal increase in expenditure on basic social articles was over-inflationed. Taking all this into account, our faction considers the proposed government of Viktor Yanukovitch to be the best budget for 2005 for Ukraine's independence. So we support this budget ourselves and we urge everyone to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u72	Thank you. The word is Pinzenik from the faction "Our Ukraine." He will be followed by Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Every day, we hear more and more about the state budget bill becoming a political instrument as an electoral tool for one of the presidential prime ministers of Ukraine. The faction "Our Ukraine" wants to make the budget law a professional document, and to make sure that some of the standards that are proposed do not work for the term of the electoral company, but are a mandatory norm for the whole year. We have repeatedly claimed that there are hidden budget revenues, and we have repeatedly argued that there is an opportunity in the government to raise wages and pensions. And this should not be done during the election period, as the current government does, and this should be the norm for the stable behaviour of the Ukrainian authorities. Let's focus on a few of the basic points of the draft budget. Dear colleagues, you've been given materials, calculations that I've done myself. On the one hand, the budget of the pension fund, which was given by the Government at 41 billion dollars, is expenditure, and here's the calculation of the need to increase the pension, taking into account the budget grants, the amount of the need is 49 billion dollars. Please tell me, do we really have the right to swallow this decision? That pension increases should be provided with adequate financial resources for the budget. The second principle is that in the draft, the government's supply resolution budget provides for the right rule for the advance wage growth compared to the GDP growth rate. Raise the budget bill, with a 34% increase in total budget income, the real salary does not go up, the cost of doctors, teachers, cultural workers, scientists goes up by 10.5%, and that's on the condition that it's about raising wages by September 1. From September 1 to the end of the following year, prices will rise by at least 13 percent. This means that not only will wages not match GDP growth, but there will be simply a reduction in the real wages of our citizens. Third moment. Is it possible to accept the suggestions for barter upon return of deposits? Of course not. So "Our Ukraine" insists that the budget be redesigned by the government, which takes into account the new minimum wage of 300 dollars with the renewal of inter-employment salaries, because that gives the resources to increase pensions and differentiate pensions. Second, to take into account the new living minimum. Thirdly, the whole return on investments is purely in monetary form, and our Ukraine will be the first faction to support such a socially oriented budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u74	Thank you. The word is Konovaluk, the faction of "Ukraine". He'll be followed by the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u75	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, reverend Mikolo Janovich, members of the government, distinguished radio listeners. Unfortunately, I don't have 20 minutes of co-reporting, but I'd like to express a few of the advantages that are actually in the State Budget project. The first thing that becomes obvious when you get to know the project is that today's rapid economic growth is leading to the filling of the budget, and certainly this filling is the result of an effective and consistent government activity, a balanced and well-founded economic policy, an activity programme. The other one. Today we are presented with an unprecedented budget for the new Ukrainian history. Now, in practice, and not just in words, there will be a process of implementing constitutional norms on the social nature of our state policy. The amount of social spending proposed for the following year will allow progress to be made in overcoming poverty in Ukraine, which has long been on the agenda. So we can talk about the quality of the new level of social policy in Ukraine, which starts with the planned introduction of a minimum wage of 262 dollars. Also, the budget actually found expenses that had not been used in previous years. It's free school feeding in the first and fourth classes, and it's complementary to teaching staff in both general and preschool schools. Taking professional organizations into account for cultural, physical and health work. Supplement for senior staff of museums and libraries Involvement of students and students in Ukraine, payment of cash assistance in retirement for science and teaching staff. Providing one-time care to orphans and children deprived of parental care. I think that's what the government is proposing not only to improve the social situation, but also to pursue a truly socially balanced social policy. Third. There is a need to determine the possibility of a breakthrough in the State's obligation to reduce citizens' monetary savings in the USSR Savings facility. The proposed new mechanism to address this ancient problem allows for positive movements across the entire system of debt repayment and debt management in the state. Four. I'm drawing attention to, well, 1.6 times, the increase in agrarian spending, which is very important for the development of our nation as a whole. The settlement of the village problem, the promotion of agro-industrial production is one of the priorities of public policy, has also been reflected in the budget presented. And the last. Once again, the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovich is fulfilling not only his commitments but also his confidence in tomorrow. And the 2005 budget project is in this as a constant confirmation. We urge everyone not to politicize this issue, but to take it up and work on the draft budget as provided for in the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that we will finish without interruption. Part of the people’s deputies insist on a break. Then the break is announced for 30 minutes — up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your jobs, and more importantly, they are more comfortable than before, and we will continue our meetings. Yes, the word from the faction of the block of Timoshenko has Alexander Turchinov. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! The government told us today that their main achievement is to increase the nominal revenues of the budget to 110.4 billion dollars. Indeed, when you look at the figures, the increase is up to 33.7 percent compared to 2004. And what's interesting is, your honorary colleagues, there's going to be a 27 percent increase in the general fund and 57 percent increase in the special fund, and I'm going to say 57 percent. This means that the record money confirms the continuation of government policies to turn ministries and branches into economic structures that themselves collect and eat what they collect. What's interesting is, if we keep this trend going, our government is going to become a completely closed-circuit stock company, where shares belong to the three leading Ukrainian clans. I want to ask you, honourable national MPs, the question: what resources does the government plan to increase the income portion of the budget? I'm looking at their proposals. Especially 11.6 billion plus the value added tax. This is while the VAT crisis remains in Ukraine. The government was unable to implement a program to deal with this crisis. Billions remain the government’s debt to the companies that overpaid the tax. GDP is rising, according to the same government, by all percentages. But what kind of money are they going to increase their income? I'll give you the answer: purely because of inflation. And even today, whoever buys food in Kiev’s markets and other regions can confirm what I have said. For some food products, prices have doubled since the beginning of the year and more than the government’s main resource. And when the government strategy is implemented, Ukraine can end up at a time when the budget was 100 percent in one month, the government can reject Ukraine at the beginning of the 1990s. This could just be an economic disaster for our nation. Next. With this virtual increase in the budget, only 0.1 percent of the government plans to increase the local budget. With regard to the pension bluff, 10 billion budget deficits have already been reported in this article alone. So it's not an increase in pensions, it's a one-time bribe that the government wants to give to our pensioners before the vote. Our faction suggests that this budget be rejected and returned to the government for further development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u79	The word is from the National Deputy Demökhin, the faction of "The One Ukraine". Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to make it clear that the one-Ukrainian MP is impressed by the state budget's presented draft. And this sympathy is based not just on a positive attitude towards the Cabinet of Ministers, but on the actual budget proposals for 2005. We're looking at a draft of the country's main financial document, based on the prism of the tasks that our faction and the "One Ukraine" are facing. And it should be noted that in many ways the government has managed to take into account the proposals of our faction in the State Budget project. They cannot help but impress the country's economic growth rate, the constant growth in GDP, income and expenditure of the State budget. All of this should guarantee the welfare of every Ukrainian citizen. What would you like to draw attention to from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Unfortunately, you and I are already discussing the draft law on the State Budget, and the draft law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme is only for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Now one example shows that the Cabinet of Ministers did not have an understanding of the situation that the program should be the primary one. The state budget should become one of the tools used to perform tasks. Of course, these two documents should be mutually agreed upon. Sadly, the present state of affairs in this area is far from ideal. For example. At the same time as one of the public policy priorities for the next year, investment and promotion of innovation infrastructure has been increased, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to introduce a moratorium on new investment and innovation projects. Next. Regardless of the actual social orientation of the budget presented, I would like to determine whether there is a significant imbalance in certain issues. Yes, with a total budget increase of about 30 percent, the minimum cost of living is proposed to increase by only 5.5 percent. The "One Ukraine" faction suggests that the Cabinet of Ministers review its point of view from a given point of view. In our view, the budget should include air, aircraft, shipbuilding, automobile, and agriculture. machine building should become a priority. The same row should include the development of growth in the southern areas of Ukraine, which will serve as a guarantee of Ukraine’s food security. The One Ukraine faction supports the adoption of the proposed State Budget, taking into account our observations and proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u81	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Noshchenko will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The 2005 evaluation of the Ukrainian State Budget project would like to start with a rhetorical question. Dear colleagues! Given how today the government, a presidential candidate from the power of power, uses the budget as its own electoral fund, we may not accept the budget at all, so as not to interfere with the use of the budget as pocket money. At the adoption of the 2004 budget, some of the deputies, such as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, called the sums of the hidden revenues of the budget. Someone had doubts about the truthfulness of this information. But the government itself, the government itself, has absolutely confirmed this by its practical actions. As for the 2005 state budget project. Yeah, really, this budget is a little bit larger, or maybe you could say, and it's much larger. But for me, at least a little bit bigger or much bigger doesn't mean much better. A few specific things. First. The project does not provide for the full amount, at least, of pension payments as large as they are imposed by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to point out that every month it takes at least one billion dollars to calculate a year is 12 to 14 billion. And the increase in funding under this article is 2.5 billion. Besides, I'm asking the members of the government not to speculate on the subject of a minimum pension. Nobody's got a minimum pension, it's not about the size of a pension. The allowance entered to the minimum of living, it's true. But such a payment of his time, at least in the Dnipropetrov region, was introduced by Paul Lazarus, but it melted as soon as the elections ended. The second point I'd like to highlight. The draft contains article 83, which contains a list on the four pages of laws, articles of laws that are stopped by the State Budget Act. Once again, we are approaching the same rakes, including few social articles. Third point. The project provides for some increase in payments to veterans of the Great Homeland War in different categories by May 9th -- that's true. That's really true. But even after payment on an increased scale, this payment is only a third of what is stipulated by the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. Once again, a war veteran is thrown out of these payouts. Sorry, at least in the year of the sixties, we have to let them know that they are also involved in this great victory. And in fact, I think that funding for the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection should be highlighted in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given by the national MP Noshenko Mikola Petrovich, the "Trudova Ukraine" faction. He'll be followed by Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u84	Your Honor! Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 169th constituency, Trudova Ukraine faction. Dear Chairman! Dear Mikola Janovich! The Hard Ukraine faction has insisted and insists on the 2005 budget review in the budget lines defined by the Budget Code. Ladies and gentlemen, we are part of, indeed, the main part of the budgetary process, but we must not forget that in this process more than 800 city budgets, district budgets and thousands of budgetary institutions are also making up their budgets. From the faction initiative, we were able to fix something. In the re-establishment of the 2004 budget, proposals have already been made here, and this is in the budget. For example, the hot diet of children in the 1st and 4th classes is an extra 1 billion in the budget. Our faction insisted on improving the well - being of the populace and the gasification, and this year 800 million are for gasification not only to the villages but also to the villages. At the same time, we also made proposals and made some improvements in the cost of living. Now it has to be said that first, the first is 6 billion in damages to the State's obligation to reduce monetary obligations, and then 700 million in debt to those who do not have housing and utility payments, that's how we want to do more, but let's take the first step, and the next year we're going to pay in cash. Consider the two previous budgets, and there were a number of changes to the tax codes that burdened the operators. This budget is not formulated by increasing the fiscal burden on taxpayers. Suggestions: We are expected to pay off the debt on the payroll of agribusiness operators, and this year we are forecasting yesterday’s expenses on the budget committee, but what about the cases of court decisions made when the state made the commitment and the subject was eliminated or had nothing to pay, the question needs to be anticipated and settled. Second, when we observe the well - being of our population, we also need to talk about what is going on and what is going on. Today, I want to say one thing: fuel costs, solid fuel costs, household fuel goes up every quarter of the fuel price, so there's a proposal to provide for the chief supervisor the cost of a moratorium on the cost of living for the population and socio-cultural objects, as well as for wood. If they cost 6 or 8 dollars, about 2 or 3 months the price became 40 dollars, that should be taken into account. And the most important proposal that I want to make public is that the Labour faction of Ukraine supports the government and proposes to accept the budget for consideration and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u85	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. From the faction of the Union, the People's Deputy Nadrag has the word. Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the Union's MP is in favour of the proposed budget. We believe that there are a number of positive points that are fundamental. However, in preparation and consideration, including meeting with the Ministry of Finance specialists, we have raised several issues that we believe need to be further developed if we are to say that the budget should be positive in its final edition. First. At present, there is a misunderstanding and, in general, a natural desire to come to the truth, this is a question of unduly exaggerated projections of own and well-established revenues to local budgets. I can bring you as one of the elements of this. For example, in the Luhansk region where I was elected, the 2004 base has so far benefited from the resources that have been made available to local budgets in connection with the payment of salaries. As you know, the coal industry has been running out of momentum for the past few years, but the question is that there will be no income from local budgets for a great deal of regret in the coming year. For example, in the Luhansk region, projections indicate that the figure is not less than a hundred million and, to be precise, 118 million are unreachable or possibly unreachable to the consolidated budgets in the area. Next moment. To date, when we are talking about the increase in local budget expenditure, which is taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers, is not adequate for the increase of the Labour Fund to budget workers and does not provide the necessary appropriations, it is also possible to speak the language of numbers, but the problem is as follows. To date, the legal basis is not only the minimum wage, but also the Supreme Council Act of 10.09 this year, which does not take into account the concept of local, minimum wages for all benefits and benefits for the worker. This raises the question: once again, we are pushing local budgets in a state where they will be available for salaries, for priority payments, and, unfortunately, there will be nothing for what we have talked about in schools, for health care and for what the local budget should do as part of the State responsible to its population. Well, that's the last one. It is thought that, in all the discussions that we need to transform and make budgets more mobile, there is probably no point for us to adopt article 23 to date in the part where, in agreement with Minfin, local budgets are allowed to finance public programmes. That is to say, we will therefore be responsible for the local budgets for the finances and for what the State budget should be responsible for. You can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u87	Thank you. From the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich has the floor. And we're going to move on to committee presentations. Matvienkov is a prompolitics.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear Mikolo Yanovich, colleague! This is what they say in the multitude, especially in the country: that which thou sowest, thou shalt reap. Of course, the consideration of today's agrarian issue is very important, as we are moving into a new phase -- support for the agro-industry complex -- what's more, we're saying at all levels, not just agrarians, peasants, that 2005 is desirable to be, and we would like it to be a rural, rural one. [[That's what I want!]] I'll tell you immediately, Mikolo Janovich, that we will support the proposal to introduce this budget into the Supreme Council so that it can be processed before the first reading - October 20. But I would like to highlight today the shortcomings that we see in this 2005 budget, despite the fact that a number of meetings have been held, a meeting, including a meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council, where we were representatives of the executive structures and it has been agreed that we are clearly implementing a budget resolution concerning an agro-industrial complex -- 10 percent of the village allocation from the general budget. We've calculated on the average that it's going to be about 9.2 billion. That's right. We agreed at this meeting and at meetings of 7.4 billion. The bracelet goes straight to the village and to higher rural education. Yet, what do we see today? 7.4 billion. What are they made of? Well, first of all, 800 million dollars is allocated to the gasification of the village. It would seem to be a very nice figure, but if we take a closer look, this question is suggested to be resolved when the debt for gas transit is repaid. Is it really possible to do this? Very doubtful. Eight million dollars in debt for the technology that was implemented in our country back in 1996. That's an unrealistic figure. 1.2 billion — expenses for the Pension Fund, or fixed agricultural tax. Again, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy does not have this structure, and in principle, this money will not be collected. Nor do we follow the real figure of single percent of the gross domestic product in the social sphere, which is 2.1 billion dollars. So we would ask, Mikola Janović, to review this attitude today towards the agro-industry complex, I think we'll find a common language with you today because we say that we support each other, but 9, 2 billion and 7.4 are our output numbers, and we'll stand on them. So I would like the government and I to find that common language. Once again, we support and vote on the introduction of the budget to the Supreme Council today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u89	Thank you. The word has the national deputy of Matvienkov, a committee of industrial politics. Tomenko will come after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u90	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! You know, frankly, I'd rather not be looking at a budget, such an important document, from a political point of view. Therefore, I will try to reject all political passions and somehow objectively evaluate this document. Can't, and I don't think any of the deputies are going to do this program. This is a third increase compared to this year's income, which is 110 billion dollars of griven, which is a 2.4 billion griven reduction compared to this year's government budget deficit, but above all, this is the social focus of the budget. For the first time in many years, almost 55 per cent of the budget is proposed for social expenditure. Can it not meet the increase in the minimum wage from 1 January to 262 bracelets, an increase of almost 2.5 times for students with the possibility of free leisure, meals for students in the first and fourth grades, and pensions increased to a subsistence minimum? It is proposed that costs be doubled. The costs of science, health care, education, of course, cannot be positive. Provision is made in the 2005 budget and six and a half billion greaves for the reimbursement of mutilated contributions from the population. After the scheme that Ivan Ivanovich and I had proposed in that convening, the Government eventually took the mechanism into its arms. That's very positive. 690 million bracelets for compensation for unpaid allowances to teachers. All of this, of course, is and is, of course, real. Any budget can be measured realistically, of course, by its implementation, but what is set here is already, so to speak, objective, normal numbers, and we cannot fail to agree to that date. But I understand the positive points, and it will depend on how the Government can provide the income, how the budget can be filled, how it can reap the shadow structures that will work and go around, so to speak, past the execution. It's nice to say that VAT is already being eliminated for scrap exports. This is already a positive moment, and it will play a positive role. Nevertheless, there are some points that need to be discussed today and that need to be addressed. First of all, this needs to be addressed by the local budgeting mechanism. After considering the 2005 draft budget for Ukraine at the city level, in particular cities such as the industrial city of Mariupol, it can be noted that in calculating the income of the first basket according to the 276 million formula, but the income of the first basket was brought by the Cabinet of Ministers -- 280 million -- that is, 3.9 million bracelets were not confirmed by formal calculations. Real incomes of 28.2 million were not achieved. Mariupol's real income is 251 million, not 280 million, as calculated by the Cabinet of Ministers. How, then, can social programs be implemented, both food for children and the normal things that are set out in this part of the budget? Therefore, the costs incurred by the Cabinet of Ministers only provide for the payment of salaries with fees and partial payment of energy carriers. I therefore believe that this mechanism needs to be taken into account, and that is what we need to correct for the second reading in order to get this moment divorced. And I want to stop in the absence of time for just one moment. Methods of calculating salaries by teacher, by school. Donetsk Region: four schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u91	Thank you. The Freedom of Speech Committee gives the floor to the national MP Tomenko. Prepare Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u92	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear radio listeners! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the tragedy of this budget is that it wasn't prepared for citizens. He was preparing for the electorate. The tragedy of this budget is that it was not prepared for 2005, it was prepared for a period of electoral campaign. And what's even more tragic is that he was preparing for the head of the National Bank, who is the head of the election headquarters of Viktor Yanukovic. And when today, the head of the electoral headquarters and the National Bank's complicity tells us that we don't have to go either to the exchange points or not to the money units at all, it causes serious concern before the budget is approved. And when colleagues talk about numbers and inflation problems, I think that's what Sergey Tihypka says they're forcing us to be alert. Just as we are compelled to guard against the position of the government that has been hiding money in the budget during the last period, and now finds a sharp find. Perhaps some treasure was found by the government, for earlier he had said that there was no money in principle, and in September and October they appeared. In general, it would be right to listen to the budget report first, to see how education, science, the army was financed. Yesterday, Eugene Marchuk, along with you, learned from the press that he had been removed from his post as Secretary of Defense. I've never regretted Marcus from this rostrum, but it's a classic cynicism of this authority -- not to inform the minister who will report to our session hall that he's already been filmed! And when the minister says he's been given a penny to the army, and now he's being made extreme by the fact that the army has collapsed. Yes, in every field! And when the pensioners are experimenting with the government today, and they're telling them that you and I are now going to experiment in September and see if you're able to change your ideological position, your attitude towards power for 184 bracelets. And it can enter the history of the world, or people change the ideology, the position, the attitude of value. Well, you can't bully people like that even when it's happening during the presidential election campaign! You can't turn the reserve fund into a gift fund for Janukovitch, because it's for naturals and stuff, not for Yanukovich's gifts. And to conclude, Ukraine's tragedy is not that the Prime Minister has two criminal convictions, the tragedy of Ukraine is that it is an illiterate man. And when they say he doesn't speak English fluently, that's not true. He doesn't speak Ukrainian or Russian, because he wrote both Ukrainian and Russian as "premier" and "professor" with two mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u93	The word is given to the national deputy of Matthew, the Committee of State Building.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u94	Thank you. It may not be worth denying the bold steps taken in the 2005 draft budget, but it is obvious that these bold steps and, of course, they are most likely dictated by all the choices that we are all waiting for. Why do I have the right to say this? Because when we examine the same government under the 2004 budget, we see that the government did not have the strength to do so in 2004, and more than that, there was a force to hide the budget, and today this is being used, unfortunately, in terms of populism, including pensions. That is why there is no confidence in today’s cabinet, including, apparently, the 2005 budget, which is why there is doubt. In fact, only local budgets will be affected. Although there has been an increase in local budget expenditure, we will be honest about it, the increase in wages and energy. The wage remains large and accounts for more than 77 percent. At the same time, the structure of local economic classification budgets is deteriorating. Local budgets remain issues of pay, not development. A particular concern is the communal economy. I'm glad you found 6 billion. But in what way? We will repay those who are in debt today. Mikolo Janovich, who came up with this formula? This is what we've been promoting right now is an increase in municipal debt. 130 billion to be paid and 6 billion to be compensated. It doesn't help, it just destroys the utilities. Obviously, we need to be stimulated in a different way. What about work for those who don't pay today or who don't live in utility apartments? How can they return these deposits? Obviously. We need to change philosophy. In relation to local militia, part of the local budgets are falling. And it doesn't make up, Mikola Janovich, 43 percent that you've announced here from this rostrum. But another 40.8 percent. The same with the special fund 34.2 against 36.3 in the 2004 budget. This is a very disturbing trend. Why, Mikolo Janović, the government's decision to implement the Ukrainian Law on Budgeting of Rurals, Villages and District Cities has not been adopted to date. It's all going to manual mode. The corrosion of the Budget Code continues, and the corrosion of laws that today protect local budgets continues. There are many other problems in the earth, one billion do not stumble, and the benefits are not covered again, and local budgets are lost. Obviously, with such approaches we can't, so we can't welcome this budget and obviously it can only be accepted after the protection of local self-government and the link is taken into account, not a declaration, but a real reinforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion has run out with you. But we have two more draft decrees to reject the 2005 State Budget project. According to the Budget Code, we are presented to the State Budget, the Supreme Council may decide to reject and send it back to the Cabinet of Ministers. So now I'm going to give three minutes to submit my draft regulations on the rejection of the State Budget Bill for the next year to the authors of these projects. Please, National Deputy Assadchev. Three minutes, he'll be followed by Teryochin, or Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u96	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear friends, this budget can be talked about very much, really here is the complete inappropriateness of macroindicators and inflation issues, and the growth of gross product, actually destroyed local budgets, because once the police sit on their funding, you'll see that nothing will happen for development. But my decision concerns, I think, the problem number one that everyone here has talked about today is the issue of retirement. Let's still take this more seriously. What did the government offer in its decisions? I, by the way, want to pay attention to the determination they agreed on. It says here, "the principal distribution of revenue." In general, in the government, everything is real, GDP is real, and the distribution of revenue is real. The actual amount of privatization comes from, and it's all a matter of course, but in order for the pension to pay off every month's national address aid. These aren't pensions, my friends. What is address aid? The address aid is the person who lives at the address of Donetskeya Street gets it, and the person who lives at Poltavska Street doesn't get it at all. So it's all going to be looked at through the prism of the giver and the giver. The Pension Insurance Act that we passed with you, and we only recently passed it, we're already starting to destroy it. He makes it clear that only pension legislation determines all pension payments, so our requirement is that we make pension changes by amending the 2004 budget. And only as a pension. It's got to be an extra pension. In the following year, we have to pay this extra pension in full from the cost of living, and then we have to restore the ratio, because we're actually going to bring everything to the balance sheet. This takes up to 10 billion dollars. Dear friends, we don't regulate this imbalance by ourselves in the Supreme Council. There's no money in the Pension Fund today. This was announced yesterday by the head of the Pension Fund. And that's why it's not possible to look at the budget with this imbalance. My determination, therefore, is to prevent millions of Ukrainian pensioners from being deceived as a result of this project from rejecting and obliging the government to provide for a pension equivalent to a subsistence minimum at the 2005 Pension Fund. And this year, it's not the goal of any extra payments, it's the extra pensions that our pensioners have to pay. Thank you for your attention. And please support the draft of my ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u97	Another draft decision on the rejection of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2005 is presented by Pinzenik. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u98	Honorable National MPs. Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block. We talked about the motivational part of our proposal -- to give a week's break to the Cabinet of Ministers to correct the serious disadvantages it has put into the State Budget project next year. What are we talking about? The budget should provide for the full amount of funding needed to increase pensions for retirees, so that not only during the elections, they will receive the supplement, but they will receive an increased pension at all times. So these are the proposals that contain the decision on deviation and direction for a week's work-up period. To this end, the faction proposes to set from January 1st the minimum wage of 300 dollars to restore inter-employment ratios in the salaries of budget workers. That's 26 percent of the wage increase, that's within the revenue increase of the budget. Let me remind you that the revenue of the budget is increasing by 34 percent. In addition, such an increase gives the same resource to the Pension Fund as is necessary for a real one, not for a declaratory increase in pensions. In addition, this makes it possible to differentiate the amount of pension increases depending on the length of the job, the size of the salary. We demand that the requirements of the Budget Code be met for the full implementation of Article 57 of the Education Act, for the provision of adequate funds in local budgets for the full implementation of rules on the introduction of new minimum wage levels, for the payment of lost savings of $6.5 billion. The currency is purely in monetary form, the setting of a living minimum of 423 bracelets, that is, at a level that takes into account not only inflation, but also part of economic growth. We want to draw attention to one more thing: contrary to the rules of the budget resolution that proposed amending the rules of tax legislation to the adoption of the budget, this budget is again making a revision of tax legislation. I want to remind you that you remember how many problems there have been in small businesses, agrarians. By the way, for the agricultural sector, the budget project introduces an additional tax into the Pension Fund of 30 percent of the standard rate. For those who pay the simplified tax, an additional tax is proposed to the Pension Fund of 50 percent of the basic rate. In this regard, the faction proposes to reject the project, giving a week according to the Government’s Budget Code for Work. And if such social parameters are supported in the budget, we are willing to vote in favour of the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u99	Yes, dear colleagues, we have also heard two draft budget rejection decrees. Now we're going to go with you to make a decision. But before that, I will ask the reporters, Valery Pavlovich! Dear colleagues, there's a faction of one, indeed, it's not written down, but it insists very much on the performance. Please turn on the Desert Mike. From the rostrum, please, come on. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! I'm sorry, they said the faction didn't sign up, that's not entirely true, because I went to the rostrum myself and asked for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u101	Valery Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. The rostrum doesn't record. We're not your secretaries. There's a secretary who's writing it down. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u102	Yes, I'd like to ask you not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u103	Turn the microphone off from the rostrum. Valeriy Pavlovich, I repeat, and I remind you, you are a very respectable man, but the Presidium is not a technical secretary, not even in former prime ministers. There's a secretariat that does that. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u104	Can I talk to you for a second? Okay, thank you. I listened carefully to the speeches, and whoever represents the budget of Mikli Janović and representatives of the MPs and factions, I want to say that yesterday the Coordinating Board of the Political Parties Block, which supports Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, held its appropriate meeting, where we discussed the budget, the issue of the holding and the raising of pensions, as stated on the coordination board, is the increase in pensions, whether it's an adventure. I mean, I'm happy with what processes are going on in the economy. I can tell you from this rostrum, I wouldn't want to interrupt! - that the government I led has set up a system to repay the debt to the budgetary organizations and has fulfilled its obligations. He created a pension payment system that was paid, paid in 1998 for 1.8 months, 12.8 months in 1999. I'm responsible for my words, for my numbers. And they paid off Victor Yushchenk's government. It is the new government today, indeed it is, that today’s government has taken the next steps. There has been an increase in the budget in the next year's budget by 28 percent tail, an increase in wages in our Ukraine, across Ukraine by 11.8 billion dollars. From there, the pension fund has increased by 5.8 billion dollars. And today there is an opportunity to pay our pensioners in an additional way. In Ukraine today, 13.8 million pensioners, 11.4 of whom receive a supplement, including teachers, doctors, and, above all, villagers. Every farmer actually gets an extra hundred dollars per month of retirement today, and it's starting to pay off. So I want to say that the budget is absolutely real. And making sure that we are included in the Pension Insurance Act. And the step that is being taken today is already a reserve at the Pension Fund for at least half a year's pension. So I propose that the faction of the People's Democratic Party not take a decision on rejection and adopt a budget for further consideration, and that it be approved, and whether the presidential election is held or not. So we don't have to worry about our military personnel? They should know that we will have solved all the social guarantees in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your apology to the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u105	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, I ask Mikola Janović Azarov, three minutes to sum it up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u106	I am grateful to all the people's deputies who have expressed constructive criticism. And, of course, the draft law is before you. This means that the Government is ready to work constructively with all the factions of Parliament. But there are a few moments that I have to stop at. Well, there have been comments that can't be taken without a smile. I want to tell our TV and radio listeners that the pensioners on the street and the street of the Donnelly, and on the street of Poltava, and on the street of Ivano-Frankovsky and Lvivsky, all pensioners will receive a supplement, which is respected by Valery Assadchev. I would now like the speakers to be in line with the figures and to be in line with the laws. When it's said that we put in some extra taxes in the country, let them open an article. So powderenko said that 20 percent of the extra taxes are taxed, there's VAT, for example, so I want to say that it's not that all the debit balances remain on the accounts, first, the interest rate is 10 percent, secondly, the debit balance stays on the accounts of agriculture enterprises. So let's just tell the truth. Now a few more words about the truth, the historical truth. Indeed, pensions were increased in 2000. The decision took place on 1 December 2000, and the pension was increased. The minimum pension was raised by 5 bracelets of 10 copies. The average pension was 84 bracelets in 2000, and the Government had already raised the average from 185 to 311 this year. That's not five bucks for you, Your Honor. So let us tell the people, our listeners the truth! Now, a few words about that, and what's the level of our neighbors' pensions? Let's transfer it to a commonly accepted currency for calculation, conditional units, so-called. Russia, minimum pension - $22, Belarus - $29, Kazakhstan - $40. Pensions now remain in Ukraine. At $53. And now one more question is about prices. I once again appeal to the people's deputies to objectivity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u107	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u108	I would like to say that more contributions to destabilization are made by some speakers, and it is hard to imagine. See what they say in our country: “Retireees, do not believe, your pension is granted only on election day.” What moral right do you have to say about this? All payments are fixed on a permanent basis and will be implemented this year and next year. The necessary funds are budgeted. Now. When it comes to price increases, it's Yanukovic's fault. Please tell me that Yanukovic is undermining the pipelines in Iraq, that Yanukovic is influencing the price formation of the international exchange in New York? This year oil price rose from $23 to $47 per barrel, that's 2.5 times. The Government of Janukovic is doing everything to stabilize prices, including for petroleum products. So all we have to do is tell the truth one more time. Moreover, when Tomenko speaks and says that the budget makes Tigypto, he is either illiterate or knowingly misleading our deputies. What does Tigypto have to do with budgeting? This is where the government sits. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! One wise man, I quote from memory, said that State wisdom is not to make perfect decisions, there is no perfect decision in nature, because perfect decisions are made by a man, but it is his inherent mistake that State wisdom is to make public decisions with minimal errors. That is why we are not making the perfect decisions, we are making those decisions that can be criticized, but that is why there is a Parliament. Let's move our conversation to a constructive path. And let's be a budget just as required by the Budget System Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u109	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Have a seat. Please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Put your hands down. Because you're gonna have to push the buttons. You don't need a replica! You don't need a replica! For reasons of vote, please write down three minutes. Yes, please show me on the screens. Tomenko's behind him, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, since I can still say it to the line. Mikola Janovich, I would advise you never to speak the word "illiteracy" because you are in line with current legislation as a civil servant, you have to use the word "illiteracy" and "illiteracy" long ago to forget and speak here in the state session hall. Not Belarusian. And now for Tihypak. Tihypically, as the head of the electoral headquarters, is constantly speaking and commenting on why the National Bank is operating or not. Why does Ukraine’s financial policy take place in such a way? He not only advertises bills but also pursues the country’s financial policy. And he's on vacation, but he's responsible for the National Bank, including. And when he says whether we should go to the bank or change or not, he has a direct impact on economic and financial policy and he has to be responsible not only for the election company Yanukovic, but also for how the budget of Ukraine is formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u111	Please. Coloniari Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u112	Colonyari, 56th District. The city of Mariupol. I'm asking you to give the floor to my colleague Valery Konovaluk. Konovaluku! Konovaluku!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u113	Please, Konovaluku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u114	Konovaluk. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we really had the impression with you today that the position of deputies is firm in the budget assessment. I think we're showing not as much as we want to be constructive, to improve the indicators and really look at the budget as it's supposed to be. Because the Committee on Budgets has approved and we have decided to support the budget and consider it. I'd like to say that there are those who don't like this situation, who don't like stability and economic development, who don't like solving major social problems. So let's not forget that presidential elections are elections, and the budget has to be for the state to be ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u115	Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u116	Commie faction, Rodionov. Dear Nikolai Janović, you have not answered my colleague, Loboda, the question of why the Government has not decided to allocate 75 million from the State budget to investment projects to local budgets so far, so to speak, it goes to MPs, to reds, to blacks, to those who can be allocated and to those who cannot be allocated. How is that going to work out? This also depends on budget support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u117	Yes. Exchange of thoughts, Your Honor, we will now vote with you on two rulings, two draft regulations, two draft regulations. This is about the 2005 budget, not the 2004 budget. Once again, dear colleagues. In accordance with the Budget Code, the Supreme Council, following the submission of the draft State Budget Act for the following year, may decide to reject it and to refer it to the Cabinet of Ministers. Two national deputies, namely three national deputies, took advantage of this norm and made appropriate draft regulations. In order of submission, their representation I will put them to the vote. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject Ukraine’s draft State Budget Act 2005 is put to the vote. Registration number 6000-p. The author is National Deputy Assadchev. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:07]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions. I'll read it now. "Our Ukraine" is 97. I'm reading a positive vote that only works in favour. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0; Communists -54; Social Democrats, and "Trust Ukraine", National Agrarian Party - 0; Socialist - 18; Tymoshenko - 18, "Soyuz" - 1, "One Ukraine" - 0; NDP, Industrial and Business Party - 0; "Centre" - 12; Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 0; Postfaction - 6. They don't make a decision. I am voting on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005. The registration number of this bill is 6,000-p1. The drafters of the bill are People’s Deputies Pinzenik and Terjehochin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:25:37]] For 209 The factions, please. The decision is not taken. "Our Ukraine" -- published a hundred, "Ukraine" -- 0, Communist -- 54, Social Democratic Party, "Urban Ukraine", the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine -- zero. [[united]] The Socialist Party is 17, Timoshenko Block is 19, The Union, The One Ukraine, the NDP, the industrialists, the entrepreneurs are zero, the Center is 12, Democratic Initiatives. People's power is 0, non-fractional is 7. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the consideration of the issue -- the submission of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2005 -- has been completed. According to our consideration, the budget remains with the Supreme Council. And I'm asking the Committee on Budget Affairs to work according to our planned schedule. [[Applause]] And for all the people's deputies, I want to inform you, for all the people's deputies, because this document by the Head of the Supreme Council has directed only to the committees and factions that the Budget Committee has drawn up a timetable for the State Budget, which meets the legislative standards that we are guided by. And that's how we're going to look at it. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If you don't mind, you know that we always hear about the appointment and release of judges on Thursdays. We have now stretched this time slightly by almost an hour in view of the fact that we cannot interrupt the previous question, and we have a number of organizational issues ahead of us. So if it's your will and you don't deny it, let's now consider the appointment and release of judges, and then we'll work in the same order that we have today. Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u118	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's constituency. I'd like to pay your attention, but I didn't understand how we voted. Article 41 of the Budget Code, I remind you, says that the first reading of the draft starts with the head of the budget committee, the head of the budget committee on conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act. They're in the middle of a discussion. And so on. Then the conclusions and proposals are voted on as a whole. Adam Ivanovich and I did not vote. And to draw conclusions, and to talk about representation as a separate stage, and not as a stage of first reading, I think, would be wrong. This does not stem from the Ukrainian budget code. And, Adam Ivanovich, me. No one said anything about financing the judiciary. The judiciary is completely bypassed by nearly half, funded by only 46 percent. And it's consciously that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm surprised, Yuri Anatoliyovich, that a specialist like you had a little bit of a mix-up between budget submission and first-reading. You and I have discussed the issue of budget presentation today. This is when the first reading will be done, and you will be right to talk about what decisions should be made. We acted in harmony with article 2.3. 1 Ukraine’s Budget Code in clear harmony with this. Yes, then, with your consent, Your Honor, we listen to the question, we consider the draft ruling on the selection of judges, the registration number. Release at the beginning? Yes, the committee proposes to release first, although it would be more logical to assign. Well, let's listen to the committee. The draft decrees for the release of judges are registration numbers 6154 and 6155. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovitch. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u120	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Fellow dignitaries, the committee reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice for the dismissal of the judge of the John’s District Court of Odessa District of Foreign Victor Georgiyovich in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. I would like to emphasize that the High Council of Justice has considered the candidate for the Foreign Minister, Viktor Georgievovich, and has decided to release him. But order is such that it is put through the committee for consideration by the Supreme Council. The committee reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice and did not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release the Foreign Judge. There are certain circumstances. I think maybe if there's any questions for me, I'll tell you. But I did report the position of the committee. So you're looking at a draft release order, but the committee's position is not to be dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u121	Thank you. There's a question. Please sign in. Please light up on the board. Three minutes. St. St. John's. Behind him, Sirenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u122	Stretovic, Christian-Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Vasil Vasilovich, everyone knows about the state of justice today in Ukraine. It is not clear why only two judges in the six - thousandth army of judges today are released under circumstances in connection with their failure to keep their oaths. Why do so little percentage of the law's prophylaxis function, I call it the theory, why don't the Higher Council of Justice, other bodies, why don't we clean up in the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u123	We consider the application of the High Council of Justice as a committee. And we bring those materials to the committee to the Supreme Council. Regarding the state of justice in Ukraine, it is now anticipated that a draft ruling prepared by the Committee on Legal Policy should be considered on 8 December of this year in sessions of the Supreme Council and that the reasons for ineffective justice, subjective conditions, are objective, because you have really stressed that the courts today are underfunded, that one third of the premises are not suitable for justice, that is, there are many reasons why the courts are not working as well as we would like them to and society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u124	Please, Sirenko, follow him Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u125	Sirenko, the Communist faction. Vasil Vasilovich, when you report the dismissal of the judges, I ask you to tell the real story in at least 3-10 words for which this judge is being released, who is being challenged, because the hall doesn't know, only knows the committee's decision. Tell the real story, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u126	Thank you, Vasil Fedorovich. The point is that the Foreigner, when dealing with one of the cases concerning the Oilynik, made a decision regarding his arrest. We've been discussing this issue on the committee's arrest decision, and Olinick was a bum, and he came out that he couldn't be punished with a fine or a correctional job, because he didn't work and he didn't have a salary to pay for any more. That's why Olionik was arrested. In doing so, the judge did not clearly indicate the circumstances under which he committed the wrongdoing and the location of the incident. This was the reason why, as the High Council of Justice and the Qualified Commission felt, his judge could be punished for this. The following situation was related to events on August 23, last year in the territory of the Russian Tatarbunar district of Odessa and, according to a decision of the Qualifying Commission and of the High Council of Justice, the Foreigner himself and his wife, allegedly on the weekend, did not wage a fight on the market. At the same time, the district newspaper wrote down this fact. When we discussed the matter on the committee, we were given a ruling by the Court of Tatars on the grounds that since 24 November 2003, where it was established that these parties, who the judge had argued with or fought, had no quarrel, had no crime scene and there was no incident. It's one way or another, but there's a court decision, it's not overturned. Therefore, the committee was of the position that once the court’s decision came into effect, there was no fact of the matter. We've made a legal assessment. And as soon as there's an evaluation of the hall, the national MPs, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u127	I've already announced Calinchuk. Please, Kalinczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u128	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Vassil Vasilovich, I can't quite agree with you that you said that there was no court decision, but that the criminal case was violated for minority, and the fact was confirmed, and the district newspaper wrote about it, and it elicited a resonance. So I don't know what the members of the committee came out of when they didn't support both the High Council of Justice and the Qualification Commission. I'd like to ask the honourable national MPs to support the decision of the High Court of Justice's Qualifying Commission on this court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u129	Vassil Antonovich, indeed, was determined by the investigating authorities to close the case for minority, that is, the fact of the fight itself, but since this case is of a private nature, the victims had just been brought to justice. And when the court considered this particular decision, he admitted that there was no such fact. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor. The question has been discussed. Is there a judge present whom we are considering? Is it? Do you have anything to say? Then please go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that all these facts are premeditated. This is the former head of the district court, well, that's how he keeps accounts with me. He didn’t want me to be elected head of the district court, so he made it up. It's all staged by him. He wrote these complaints on behalf of relatives and acquaintances everywhere. I wasn't even present at all these businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u132	Yes. Well, let's give it a chance, insists Tsuko, ask a question. Please. Zushka's microphone. Questions to the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u133	Respectable. Deputy Cusco, Socialist faction. Dear Mr. Foreigner. There are facts, and I, you know, rarely get involved in the fate of the judges, and I've specifically studied your question, I've met people in the Ivanov region. You care for people, you don't have a lot of people. You're threatening to wait, I'm going to be president of the court, and then I'm going to show you. Not enough of that. You've expelled the lawyers and the halls are all facts. And the most interesting, distinguished colleagues, that all the deputies from Atonement are in favour of this gentleman's release. He's not worth being a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u134	Well, that's not a question. All right, please, let's be clear. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the release of a judge. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 15, part 5, of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release Foreign Victor Georgievic from office as judge of the John’s People’s Court of Odessa in connection with a violation of his oath to the judge. Registration number Regulation 6154. Please vote. [[13:40:18]] For 338 The decision is made by factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 59, Regions of Ukraine - 57, Communist - 54, Social-Democratic Party, 34, Labour Ukraine - 30, National Agrarian Party - 20, Socialist - 20, Block Timoshenko - 4, Union - 17, Only Ukraine - 15, NDP industry, entrepreneurs - 17, Center - 0, Deminiciative peoples - 3, non-fractional - 8. We're listening to the draft decision on the release of Judge Chepurno. This is registration number 6155, reports the Head of the Legal Policy Committee on Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. Please Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u135	The committee considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the dismissal of the judge of the Primorski District Court of Zaporozhye district of Chepur Sergey Vasilovich, in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. The committee supports the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of Chepurna from the post of judge. Because I've been noticed and that's true. Which was the main reason for Chepur's dismissal from the judge. Well, let's say it was checked that the 7 cases that it dealt with back in 2001 were not resolved, there were no protocols, there were no cases that were not filed with the office and there was no execution of them. For example, during the six months of 2002, 231 civilians were involved in the conduct of Chepurna. Of these, in fact, 24 were dealt with only in matters. I told Chepurnam directly on the committee that he needed to find another place to work. So I think that the submission that Chepursky should be working in another field is in another sphere, but he can't work as a judge. [[And it's not just me, it's the committee's opinion, it's the committee's decision.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, are there any questions for Vasil Vasilovich? You don't? Is Chepurny here? None. Dear colleagues, then, with your consent, I am putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to release the judge. According to article 85, paragraph 5, of article 126, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release Chepurni Sergey Vasilovich from office as judge of the Primorski District Court of Zaporozhye in connection with a violation of his oath to the judge. Registration number of Bill 6155. Please vote. [[13:43:36]] For 332 Decision taken. We're listening to draft decrees for the election of judges. Registration number 6151. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u137	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine proposes that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u138	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, one minute, if you please. Dear colleagues, there has just been a meeting of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly. In this regard, Ms. Nino Burjanadze, Head of the Georgian Parliament, is in Ukraine. Let's welcome her. [[Applause]] And also, your honorary colleagues, the head of the millimadliss of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Murtuz Aliskerov. [[Applause]] Deputy Head of Parliament of the Republic of Moldova, Michaelo Kamzan. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the action that we have just done on the assumption that our fruitful cooperation within the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly will allow us to take advantage of all our opportunities, reserves to successfully develop our countries in the economic, political, social, and social spheres so that we can take a decent place in the world co-workers. [[Applause]] Thank you. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov District of Stukovenkov Tetjan Grigorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of High Valentine Stepanovna, Gudkova Dmitra Fedorovich, Estinina Valentina Vasilovna, Zubova Ludmila Mikolayovna, The Lady of Olena Fedorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Matyushenko Igor Volodymirovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zakartat district of Didik Vasil Mikhailovich, Kustan Boris Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Illichov Petra Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region of Kiselik Stanislav Anatoliyovich, Fomichov Sergey Evgenovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Valko Natalia Mikhailnovna; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Doubik Tetjana Stepanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Balaban Viktor Fedorovich, Suvorov Valerija Alexiyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Suman District of Bear Nina Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil District of the Stadnik Oleg Bogdanović; The Court of Appeal of the Hmelni district of Bassa Alexi Grigorovitch and Shersun Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u140	I'm sorry. Pulled over by who? Tegnibok's microphone, please. Yes, according to Bass, the Court of Appeal of the Hmmelnick district. Yes, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u141	Shershuna Viktor Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Adamenko Love Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv District of Bobrov, Irina Alexiyevna, the Cozy Valery of Mikolaiovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Tkajuk Oleg Stepanović; the local Armenian city court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sheshakovsky Ludmila Petrovna; the local Bilogir district court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Lucheco Ludmila Grigorovna; of the local Krasnogvardy District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kiruhina Marina Anatolyevna; The local Chargord District Court of the Sokolovsk Tetian Aleksyivna District.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u142	Yes, I'm sorry. Please, Boko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! After Sokolovska Tetjana, Alexiyevna, we have dealt with the question twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u144	Ivan Sidorovich, let's shoot now, and then, when we talk about it, you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u145	I'm taking down her candidacy. And, Adam Ivanovich, there we missed the Bear, the candidature to the Court of Appeal of the Sumu district.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u146	Sumski. I mean, there's a warning. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u147	There's a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u148	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u149	The local Lenin district court of Vinnice Kuzmishina Vitalia Mikolaiovich; of the local M.E. District Court of Dnipropetrovsk Mustath Antonina Mikolayevna; the local Selidium City Court of the Donetsk Region of Vorobjov Irina Volodymyrna; the local Snow White City Court of the Donetsk region of Savakov Svetlana Volodymyrna; the local Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Shaliev Victoria Anatoliyivna; The local Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye district of Fomin Viktor Anatoliyovich; the local Mikhailiv District Court of Zaporozhye district of Samofal Yuri Vasilovich; Local.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u150	Please, Anatoly Frost, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u151	I'm asking Samofal Yuri Vasilovich to delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u152	Okay. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u153	The local Brovarsky District Court of Kyiv district of Avramenko Mikol Grigorovich. the local Golovanov district court of the Kirovograd district of Burkovsk Vladimir Gavrilović; Local Kirov City Court of Luhansk Hennady Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u154	Please, Nighthawk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u155	The candidate for the post of Judge of the District Court of Kyrovograd. The Hard Ukraine faction was turned to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u156	Mikola Petrovich, excuse me, Burkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u157	Burkovsky Vladimir Gavrilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u158	Yeah, okay, okay. All right, then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u159	The local Kirov City Court of the Luhansk district of Harchenk Hennady Antonovich; The local Shevchenkov district court of Lviv Zim Irina Evstafiyevna; the local Central District Court of Mikolayeva Alyejnikov Volodymira Alexandrovich; Local District Court of Odessa, Gromic Ruslan Dmitrovic; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Kuzmenko Natalija Leonidivna; the local Orgitsky District Court of Poltav district of Yuhimovich Vysvolod Fresnović.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u160	Please, Masenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u161	A warning about Yuhimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u162	Right, Yuhimovich. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u163	The local Poltava District Court of the district of Ryabishin Andrija Alexandrovich; local Krukovsky District Court of Kremenchuk Poltavsk Region Osenko Tamar Ivanovna; the local Lipovolean District Court of Sumi district of Seminy Lydia Ivanovna; the local Mid-Bud District Court of the Suman District of Sweden, Irina Eugene; the local Yellow District Court of Kharkiv Kononenko Zia Alexiyevna; the local Moscow District Court of Kharkiv Danilov Malvin Volodymyrna; the local Redwater District Court of Kharkiv Didovitsa Valentina Andriyovich; the local Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of the Hmelnicke District of Kasap Viktor Mikolaiovich; the local Nižin Regional Court of the Chernigiv district of Marchenko Mikol Mikhailovich; the local Semenov district court of Czernigów district of Popovic Viktor Volodymirovich; the local Chernigiv district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u164	Please, Stratovic's microphone. Check.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u165	I have a question to Vasil Vasilovich, not to Shahov, because the polls we've been distributed show that she's been working as a judge since June 6, 2002. It is known that the President is appointed for five years. What's being challenged is that this candidature here, just to clean up the experiment, I have nothing against Shah's character personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u166	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, give us an immediate answer so we can determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u167	I think we're going to check the footage now, so we don't have to make any mistakes, but since we didn't have that issue in our committee. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u168	I mean, for now, we're asking a question mark.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u169	But there's no complaint, no. Nothing was going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u171	Kaspur of the local right-wing district court of Chernigova Kashpur Olga Valeriyivnu; the local Obolonian District Court of Kyiv Dibu Vasil Guriyovich; the local Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol, Colbine Tetjana Pavlovna; the local Nahimov district court of Sevastopol, Yelan Olen Eduardovna; and the court-martial of the Wynnick garrison of Polishchuck Oleg Ludwigovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u172	Yes, your honorary colleagues, so we are with you, according to tradition, and according to the law that we have in place regarding the appointment and release of judges, we now have to make a decision with you to elect judges. That's why I'm going to put the election order to the vote. Excluding those to whom we were referring. I call these names. With the exception of the judge of the Court of Appeal of Suma District, Nina Ivanovna, except for the judge of the Court of Appeal of Hmeljna District of Basa Oleksija Grigorovič, except for the judge of the local Chargord district court of the Sokolovsk Region of Sokolovsk Tetjana Alexijovni, except for the judge of the local Mikhailov district court of Zaporozk Region of Samochval Yuri Vasilović, the local Supreme Court of Kirovgrad region of Borkovsk, Vladimir Havrivlović, the local Orzhic district court of Poltavski district of Yukonović, and, for the time being, probably before the vote. Are the Shahs ready or not? Then the Shah's Olga Grigorovna is the local Chernigiv district court of the Chernigiv region. Please, there's another offer from Boko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u173	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u174	Vasil Vasilovich, wait. Please. Boko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u175	Adam Ivanovich, I take off my warning on Nina John Bear and ask her forgiveness because there was a confusion with Romanian city and district courts. We're taking off our bear warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u176	Okay. So from the point of view, Nina Ivanovna's bear and the Suma County Court of Appeal is off the question, and she's on the list. So I put to the vote the Supreme Council Order on the election of Judges, please vote. [[Registration number 6151]] [[13:55:32]] For 373 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, let's go as in the order of deviations. Please, the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljnicke District, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljnicke District of Bass Olexy Grigorovich. Who had a note? Pully microphone, please. And Bass, come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u177	Oleg Tuggnibok, U.S. Freedom Union. Dear Alex Grigorovich, you may know that there is an unprecedented famine of ordinary people in front of the Hmelnicka administration in protest against the construction of the department store. Despite the fact that there was a decision of the Hmielnick. As of May 7, this year, which has recognized the illegality of building a commercial service centre, has led people to despair that people are starving and are already being brought to them by ambulances. Here you are now appointed to serve as an extremely responsible judge of the Court of Appeal. Please tell us that this matter is a political order before the presidential election. How will you react as a person who will take up such a position, I hope, if you are faced with a similar situation? Will you respond to appropriate orders or from the Cabinet of Ministers or from the Presidential Administration? Your answer will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u178	Yes. Dear colleagues, please, Alexy Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u179	What can I say? So far, I have made decisions in accordance with the law, and I will make the same decisions in the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u180	Yes. I see. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u181	I wish Alexy Grigorovich had said what decision he was going to make and I would have said first that he could not be recommended by a judge. He's a judge. to make decisions in the appropriate room in accordance with the Civil Procedure or Criminal Procedure Code. The committee recommends that it be supported. That's a good one. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u182	It's true, Vasil Vasilovich, the only thing you forgot to say is to make decisions in accordance with the laws we make here. Please, Novak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u183	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. You know, I've been listening to this for a while now, colleague Pullibok, and I'm thinking, well. We can't put people like that in order to at least be here, like, annoying, like blowing up the atmosphere. I know this judge personally, and you know, after 18 years of work, he's already working as a judge at the Hmiel. And they're very good at him, very good at thinking about him as a man, as a judge. In principle, he makes decisions. Well, we can't, we haven't talked here once, we can't build our relationships on emotions. Dear colleagues! I'm just asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u184	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the decision to elect Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnick district of Bass Aleksija Grigorovitch. Please vote. [[13:59:11]] For 350. Decision taken. The factions? Please. You don't have to? You don't have to. Yeah, you don't have to do that when the faction gets in your hands, do you? So the local judge of the local Chargorod district court of the Winnitsk district of Sokolovska Tetjana Alexiyevna. Please, Auntie Alexiyevna to the microphone, who had the note? Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I took part in one of the courts that considered the summary of the past parliamentary elections in Chargorod under the leadership of Mrs. Sokolovsky, and I was convinced that she was not having an objective trial. It allows itself to be involved in political games. And no matter who won it, no matter who won it, no matter who won it, but when a person consciously tries to play tricks on those who faked the sums in separate areas, when he deliberately goes for a violation of the law and moral code, I don't think such a person can be a judge. Two times the Supreme Council has already rejected her candidacy, I mean, two times. How did she get here the third time I didn't understand. It seems to me that this is a violation of the general order in which we consider and appoint judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please listen to what I have to say. In view of the fact that we are now taking matters too seriously, there is no need to allow any deviation or violation of the rules. So with your permission to finish this question, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Who's the question? Probably to Vasil Vasilovich and then to Tetjana Aleksyivna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u187	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have studied the matter quite carefully. We were really approached by Mikola Evtichovich Melnik about the fact that Sokolovska in her time in 2002 declared elections invalid in certain areas. There were no decisions. And there's nothing illegal about her anymore. Listen to me. The decision has not been revoked. The decision has not been revoked. Moreover, when making the Sokolovsky decision, it came out of the previous decision that Sukhin’s complaint was taken. So it was the right decision to make, because another decision had been made before. The question is, how is Sokolovsky said to be on the Supreme Council for the third time? I want to tell you that for the first time, she, her candidate, was considered on 19/06 2003. And then she got 218 votes. The next time it was considered, it was scheduled to be held on July 9, 2003, but it was withdrawn and scheduled for review by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court and the Qualified Commission carefully examined the circumstances of the case. And we were given a new statement that she could be chosen as a judge. What's more, I'm going to tell you that when the committee was sitting at its meeting on September 15, 2004, it actually unanimously decided to recommend it as a judge. Nice features, nice qualifications. You know, someone might be offended. But it is not possible to decide the fate of a person from a shoelace. I want to say that this is not my position, that this is the position of the committee. The committee requests that Sokolovsky be supported as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u188	Please, Melnik's microphone. After him, the Cloud. Melnik Mikoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u189	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I was at one of the committee meetings when Sokolovsky was confirmed. The committee’s deputies all voted and declared Sokolovsky to be a political killer, as it was said. She can't be allowed to go to court. And the third time today is out again. So I ask you to consider this situation and make the right, the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u190	Please, Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u191	The cloud, the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I'm surprised by your position. First of all, we don't decide the fate of Sokolovsky's man here, we decide whether to elect her judge or not. She can work in show business anywhere, but I think it's just, you know, a cynical stretch, an effort to reach out to this judge, who has apparently committed a rude and deliberate violation of the rule of law in her time and again, it's disrespectful to the Supreme Council when the Supreme Council has already made the right decision about her, and you're pushing her again. I urge everyone not to vote for Mrs. Sokolowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u192	Stepan Ilkovich, first of all, it's not my personal opinion, I'm obliged to report the committee's decision, I'm reporting it, and I'm not pushing it. I'm just trying to give you an objective report. And there is the submission of the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine, which is the filing of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. So everything happens according to the law. And you make up your mind, that's your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u193	Aunt Alexyevna, do you have anything to say? Question to whom? To the judge? Please, Headmaster. Please, Head Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u194	Sergey Glaucus, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Your Honor! You know that according to the principles of judicial decision-making and professional activity, the rules of the Constitution and the laws that Adam Ivanovich said we are here to take, but also the principles of our own conscience and morality. Now, the Supreme Council, as a senior representative of the people, has denied you trust twice, has rejected you twice. From the point of view of your own and moral conscience, do you have a moral right, not a formal one, as Onopenko says, because the Higher Qualifications Commission is promoting whether the Head of the Supreme Court is promoting, from the point of view of conscience, morality, if you have, as you think, you can go on, having such a conscience and such morality, exercising justice and justice in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u195	Please, Auntie Alexyevna, let's answer that and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u196	I mean, the judge. To answer to Mr. Head, that the judge should not be guided by emotion in his work. When I made my decision, I made it on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the basis of electoral legislation. A lot of tests have been made on the decision. In the two years that I've been executed, well, I'm sorry, I have to say, it's been tested several times. And I've already told someone, and I'm ready for you at every single point, every word of my decision to explain. I was governed by the law, governed by the Constitution, the Declaration of Human Rights. The law was passed by you, and I am only a doer, and I have fulfilled it according to the requirements and according to the conscience of the judge, because it is written in that decision, still corresponds to the facts and evidence, verified and evaluated in a court of law. I want to make a point. Complaint satisfied in part. Today, there's a court there. "political killer" is what I was called here. It's an insult of its kind today, but it's not a decision without research. It was. If Mikola Evitikhovich and Deputy Boki were in the courtroom, they saw the decision. In accordance with the requirements of civil and procedural legislation, there was a fixed presence of the press in the presence of television. And no infringements have been detected by any judicial authority higher than in this decision. The decision is legally valid. And it was adopted according to the law which you have adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u197	I'll put it to a vote. Vasil Vasilovich, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, since my first name has been given, I believe that both conscience and morality must be in harmony with the law and the rule of law. The Constitution, which is so respected and known by Sergey Petrovich, reads: "There can be no extra-judicial control." The decision became legal. We want to make an assessment with more control. I think it's gonna be wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u199	I think the two justice ministers will then have a discussion with each other, and so far I'm putting to the vote a verdict: to elect the judge of the local Shargoros District Court of the Sokolovsk Tetjana Alexiyivna. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:09:43]] For 269 Decision taken. He's a local judge. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 56, Communists - 0, Social Democratic Party - 40, "Trudova Ukraine" - 30, National Agrarian Party - 9, Socialists - 0, Timoshenko Block - 0, "Soyuz" - 16, "One Ukraine" - 16, NDP, Industrial and Business Party - 15, "Centre" - 9, "Deminiti-Narode" - 12, "Postfaction" - 10. Samofal Yuri Vasilovich, Mikhailiv District Court of Zaporozhye Region Please, it's Frost Anatoly's microphone. And I'm asking Samofala to come up to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u200	Dear Adam Ivanovich, venerable Vasil Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Judge Samofal Yuri Vasilovich had already been considered, if you recall, at that session. He's got 53 votes. Then they looked at it again, they rejected it again. Vasil Vasilovich, it's me. I had a conversation with Vasil Vasilovich. Why haven't I been invited as an MP from that district to address this issue? And there are standards in general. It's probably the third time, how long can you think about it? And if I have to, I'll repeat those three questions again. It's a savagery in our country, in our country. So I'm just asking you. And the questions were followed if they were to be repeated. First. In the Mikhail district, in its own time, with the breaking of every rule, safety techniques and so on, one person burned 16 like him, a cave. The cellar where the food is stored and so on. A criminal case was committed. For five years the case was fined, then Judge Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! Vasil Vasilovich, indeed, the question that, according to the law that we have adopted, we have only twice the right to consider. If this is the third time, please explain the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy may also be wrong because there are people there. But we didn't let that happen this time. In fact, 9.07.03 was considered by Samofal Jury Vasilovich, who won not 53 votes, 59. But it doesn't change. We sent for further inspection, returned to the Supreme Court in general, and said: “Make sure that we can report the situation objectively here. I'll let you know. It's a fire. The case came to trial from the prosecutor’s office in 1801. In 98 C.E. More investigations have been made on a number of occasions. 31.05.2000 was changed. For the sake of the party and for the consideration of Vasilkovsky. Basil's District Court. Judge Samofal did not pass judgment on the matter. Next. The appeal by a candidate in Bondarenko’s national deputies about the annulment of the District Electoral Commission’s decision by Judge Samofal was not heard. Third position. You didn't even talk about it, but we checked. In the civil case of the issue of the issue of the issue of the release of pomegranates to the SPC, Mikhail’s Interhouse Combustion Plant, no infringements of existing legislation have been established. We've checked the data, and the committee doesn't think there's a reason. Now, Anatoly Santa Claus, I respect you and, believe me, we invited you to the committee, gave you the wrong mobile phone to your secretariat. Now it's been established that your cell phone is 8067.9447.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u203	Don't call the whole Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u204	92, it's only after the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u205	Vasily Vasilovich, why are you talking about the phone number for the whole state?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u206	But the data on the committee's website is all there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u207	Moreover, when we consider matters with the courts, there is or should not be a telephone right. Please, Frost, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u208	Vasily Vasilovich, I have a lot of respect for you, too, and I don't need to tell you, it's just child talk that you couldn't find me. We're in the same house right now, I'm on the 10th floor, you're below. It must have been possible to find a national MP. This is the first time. Oh, that's different. Vassil Vasilovich, you're mistaking the facts of the case. Judge Samofal was five years old, I say, and handed it to Vasilyvka. The second question. There were 11 cases that had not been considered, and two years later the case had not been considered. And when I went to the judge, he giggled and continued not to do what people demanded. And the third. It's the election. All I asked was for the judge to put his hand on his heart and say if there were only five ballots for one and five for the other to declare the election invalid and to throw away a million government money? Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u209	Anatoly Mikolaiovich, name some other data. That's all I said. I was told that the Supreme Court, the Qualified Commission and the Committee had checked. I'm reporting to the committee. There's nothing else I can say. If there's a fact of gravity, if there was, you have to verify the catch-up and everything. For help, I haven't lived there in a year, but I'm welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u210	Okay. Dear colleagues! Once again, I ask your permission to continue the meetings until we have finished the discussion. We have two or three left. So let's work faster. I put to the vote the Order on the election of the judge of the local Mikhail district court of Zaporozhye district of Samohlav Yuri Vasilovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:16:12]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 7, "Regions of Ukraine" - 52, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 37, "Trudova Ukraine" - 29, National Agricultural Party, Socialists, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The Union" - 6, "The One Ukraine" - 14, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 3, "The Centre" - 13, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 12, "The Non-Flocked" - 0. Yes. Burkovsky Vladimir Gavrilović, Kyrovogradsky Regional Court. Who had Nightshenko? Please, noschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u211	The Hard Ukraine faction, Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich. Warnings regarding the candidate for Judgeship of Burkovsky Vladimir Gavrilovich According to the territorial administration of the State Court of Justice during work, the number of cases that had been cancelled or changed in the appeals office had increased as a result. There was a place where there was a violation of work discipline, rudeness. One fact alone, according to the head of the district court, starting in March 2003, he did not refer to the introduction of the Burkov new cases in order to be able to complete the cases that were assigned to him. We have an offer, they think it's what they're saying today. the decision-making decision for Vladimir Gavrilovich. The decision not to take, give the committee time, legal policy, learn these questions under the circumstances that will sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u212	Honorable colleagues, perhaps, will we do so? How's Vasil Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, I think this data should be checked. We didn't do it once to avoid making a mistake, or we're still deciding on the fate of the human being.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u214	But at the same time, but at the same time, is Vasil Vasilovich, but this is not going to be a question? Just so it doesn't happen, let's say we've considered it once?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u215	No, according to the law we have passed, this is not a consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u216	Well, then Borkovsky's candidate, Vladimir Gavrilovich, is further studying. Yes, a remark to the judge of the local Orchik District Court of Poltava district of Yuhimovich Vesvoldod Fresnovich. Masenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u217	Honorable colleagues, national deputies, the point is that Yuhimovich's candidature is repeated for approval by a judge of the local court, but this time I have also cited facts that, by moral indications, cannot allow him to hold this office, and this time I am confirming. First of all, it's very rude to treat prosecutors. Already at the Committee, Vasil Vasilovich, we have considered with you that, even the Head of the Supreme Court has overturned his decision. On the moral side, this person cannot morally embrace this position, since I have already set an example of an illegally imported car of Mercedes Benz in the customs territory of Ukraine. While illegally staying, three traffic accidents took place in Ukraine. Taking advantage of being a judge, these accidents will not be registered. When I sounded it, yes, HAI, DAI -- everyone was so confused that it was a crime committed, and it covered everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u218	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, the Committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, since there's not enough time for Alexander Mikolaiovich, I'll tell you what kind of judge made a mistake in the eyes of the national deputy. Well, first of all. Second, it was stated on the committee that Judge Yuhimovich owned eight acres of land there. During this time, we needed help with the executive of the Orgic Rural Council, where it is written that Yuhimovich Volodymyr Francisch was assigned a two - hectare - size area. Like any other land, a son or family is used there. Next, his son worked in court. When Yuhimovich became the head of the court, the son was transferred to another court when he took office. There's help from the head of the Lubensky district justice department of Marchenka. And the last. In fact, he drove the car and couldn’t get it out. On the committee, I explained what had changed legislation. So you give an evaluation in this room and make a decision. But accept the balance. To help me out, I want to say that it's really 5.06. In the year 03, he won only 151 votes last year. Now both the Qualified Commission and the Supreme Court have made the appropriate submission, the committee has taken the appropriate decision. I brought him to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u220	I am voting on the decision to elect the judge of the local Orgitsky District Court of the district of Poltav. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:21:48]] For-157. The decision is not taken. And we have a question with Shah's Olga Grigorovna. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u221	They gave it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u222	Stretovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u223	I've been given appropriate help with our footage, that there's nothing wrong with it, no mistakes are made. So there is a proposal to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u224	Stretovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, don't let Olga Grigorovna insult me, because I don't know her and I don't have any claims. But the documents given to us show that Olga Grigorovna worked as a judge from 1982 to 1985 in another state, under other legislation, and then returned to that profession in 2002, and the President appointed her for five years. Her term of office is not yet over. If we deviate from the law, let us step aside and put it into practice. If we follow it, let us await the conclusion of the five - year term for the judge, and then the Supreme Council, in accordance with the law, will consider this candidate. That's it. It's just technically what we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u226	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, maybe you're making a mistake there, but I have a candidate's help to elect an indefinite judge of the Chernigiv District Court of the Shahowa Olga Grigorovna district and it's written that since 20.06. 82 to 85, she served as the national judge of the Ichnian District People's Court of the Chernig region. I think this is not another country, as you said? And since 06.06.2002, he has been working at the Chernigiv District Court in the Chernigiv region. Maybe you can ask her and clarify some of the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u227	Well, you've probably confirmed that Strtovic said that she's actually working as a judge on 06.06.2002, that is. But listen to Olga Grigorovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, I was appointed Judge of the Chernigiv District Court from 06/06.2002 within a five - year term, as I served as Judge of the Ichnyan district of the same region of Chernigivsk from 1982 to 1985, i.e. five years. 06.06 - five years as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u229	Stratov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u230	A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u231	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! In order not to be an ass and not to be afraid, I suggest that the committee in general take a closer look at such facts. Since the President’s decree to appoint a Shahov court was issued in 2002 within a five - year term, it has been extended since the issue and for five years. It cannot be taken into account for the legal relations that arose prior to the adoption of the Constitution. Taking into account the situation explained by the judge, I ask my colleagues to vote and approve it as a permanent judge. But let's put an end to this practice once and for all. Because there is a law, and it is binding upon all its executors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u232	I am voting on the decision to elect the judge of the Chernigiv District Court of the Chekhov region of Olga Grigorovna. Please vote. [[14:25:36]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Supreme Council, let's sincerely welcome the elected judges today, wish them success and no longer meet the deputies right here. [[Applause]] This morning’s session is closed. At 16 o'clock, let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u233	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:57]] 324 National MPs. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich, who was 65 years old, is a Jubilee. Let us welcome him and wish that he would work for a long time in such good health. Dear colleagues, I'll brief you on the findings of our work yesterday, Wednesday. Six bills have been considered. You know, 90 MPs have been asked. Statements were made by authorized representatives of MPs and factions with statements, information, reports. Six bills have been considered. Of these, two were accepted, one was rejected, one was directed at rereading the first reading one and accepted in the first reading two. This is about the inaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The session schedule for today, on Thursday, your honorary colleagues, you have, it's agreed by MPs and factions, we're moving to work. The first question to be considered is the presentation of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2005. Dear colleagues, what are the requirements of the Budget Code for submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act? The presentation is made in accordance with article 39 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the Ukrainian Minister of Finance is presenting the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs reports on the compatibility of the draft State Budget Act with the requirements of the Budget Code, the main directions of budgetary policy for 2005 and the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the main directions of budgetary policy for 2005. According to the outcome of the discussion, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide to adopt a draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for consideration or to reject it in the event of non-compliance with the Budget Code and the main directions of budgetary policy for 2005 and the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for it, adopted in accordance with part six of article 33 of the Budget Code. This is the time limit for consideration of this question: report by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarova - up to 30 minutes, answers to questions - up to 15 minutes, report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on questions relating to the budget of Petr Alexiyyevich Prashenko - up to 20 minutes, answers to questions to the rapporteur - up to 15 minutes, statements by representatives of MPs and groups, committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, national deputies - 40 minutes, decision-making, closing word - five minutes. No objections? Please, Mikola Janović, I invite you to the report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u234	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In line with the rules of current budgetary legislation, the government has developed and is today presenting a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget. The stage of improving the fiscal policy that our government gave up was quite complex. Let me remind you: December 2002 was the first step towards achieving a balanced real budget. The changes made to the 2002 budget, instead of the unrealistic planned privatisations, increased the level of borrowing, thus allowing for a reduction in creditors' debt. For the first time in a year, it was possible to implement the income portion of the general budget in December by 100.8 per cent of the plan, whereas the percentage of implementation in 11 months was only 93 per cent. The main summary of the previous phase was to overcome the chronic budget failure. And not just overcoming, but a significant increase in basic economic performance in recent years. Thus, in 2003, macroeconomic stability and budgetary discipline were ensured, structural reform was enhanced, and social guarantees extended to a wide range of citizens. In 2004, we entered with the following results: GDP growth exceeded the average of this figure in the previous three years and stood at 9.3 percent, double the wage gap, increased pensions and social benefits, provision of military personnel, scholarships for students, and a 30 percent increase in the salaries of budget workers. Budget debt for budget workers and social assistance for families with children has been fully repaid. First of all, the government budget's income and expenditure is 100 percent. In the current year, not only has economic growth been maintained but there has been every effort to further consolidate this positive trend. The results achieved in eight months of the current year will allow us to move forward with confidence, although, of course, serious and stressful work is ahead. We have a real gross domestic product growth rate of 13.6 percent. Saving the positive external trade surplus is $2.4 billion, which has made the exchange rate stable. The debt from the Chernobyl spending has been fully repaid. Ukraine’s eight-month operating budget is over 53 billion dollars, which is 6.4 billion, or 21 percent, more than last year’s. The revenue of the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine in eight months was made on January-August 101.7, which is 4.2 billion dollars higher than last year's. The local budget resource base has been strengthened. The income portion of the local budgets reached 24.4 billion dollars. Last year, an additional 3.2 billion dollars, or more than 15 percent, were received. Subsidies and grants to local budgets are listed as a percentage of the total. The way in which domestic government bonds are issued is to pay off the budget debt from unpaid tax amounts to the added value with an extended repayment period of about two billion dollars. Remote transactions have been made in the external borrowing market. Yes, there has been a reduction in the middle-weight interest rate on external capital markets from 12 per cent in 2000 to 5.3 per cent in 2004, allowing effective fiscal and debt policies to be implemented. The state budget dynamics in the current year provide a good foundation and a stable basis for taking not only ambitious but well-designed and balanced decisions on the continuation of economic and social reforms next year. Next year, we're going to enter with stable positive dynamics in the budget area. This is the result of the consistent, effective and responsible policy of our government to implement the structural and innovative reconstruction strategy of the economy, the priorities of the state's social policy. Ukraine's economic and social development forecast for 2005 is based on Ukraine's economic growth trend at a rate projected to be one of the highest in the world community. The main thrust of the budget next year is the strong social programme, the promotion of economic development through increased public expenditure and the transfer of parts of the mandate to the regions with adequate reinforcement of adequate resources. The main parameters of the income and expenditure of the budget for the following year can be seen on the slides. Yes, the revenue forecast for the next year is 110.5 billion dollars. The weight of the total fund of the consolidated budget in 2005 will be about 76 percent. In 2003, it was 77 percent, in 2004, about 80 percent, confirming the reality of budget plans. Expenditures and loans for the next year are projected at 118 billion dollars, 26.2 billion dollars, or about 30 percent more of today’s plan. I want to focus your attention on the following. The government has defined and involved as many resources as possible, including tax debt, in the formation of budgetary indicators. Thus, in the next year’s draft budget, income is strained but realistic. First. The share of the income distribution of the budget is 28.5 percent next year because of GDP. In fact, in 2003, this figure was also 28.5 percent, and in eight months 2004 it was 28 percent. That is, the share of the income of the consolidated GDP budget for 2005 is saved at the level achieved. It's different. The increase in the consolidated budget in 2005 is justified and is explained by the steady rise in real GDP: 2003 - 9.4 percent, 2004 - expected 12.4, 2005 - forecast 8.6 percent. Real GDP has reached a record 113.6 percent since the beginning of this year. The real GDP growth expected this year at 12.4 percent is the basis for next year's arrival. Third. Technology is improving in the administration of budget revenues, not in the reinforcement of fiscal pressure. The revenue part of the budget provides part of revenue, such as the repayment of tax debt, which will result in targeted financing of budget expenditure, which will primarily stimulate the execution of such revenue. That is, if previously the debt owed to the budget was written down according to the law of Ukraine, the following year it would be used to solve social problems, to unlock economic blood clots. As a result, this is the solution to systemic problems by paying off tax debt. Fourth. This year, the final issue of VAT compensation will be resolved, and this gives us reason to plan an increase in income from this tax. The outstanding debt, which at the beginning of the year amounted to 3 billion dollars, has now declined to 295 million dollars. For the first time, the budget for the following year does not provide funds to pay off the terminated VAT. Let's go. Let's go, In the current year, it is planned to pay off the wages of employees. In every enterprise, there is a great deal of money turnover, such as the agricultural sector, which is a separate industry. And that will enable them to increase their production volume and profit. Which, in turn, gives us reason to plan the increase in income tax revenues. And the last. Internal consumption is increasing due to wage increases, pensions, scholarships, social benefits, which are also an impetus for the development of our economy and an appropriate tax base. Where else can the budget come from? There are state programmes approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the government for which substantial financial resources were planned. The program aims to promote the development of different sectors of the economy. In recent years, however, these funds from the budget have actually begun to come to businesses. And this is once again the rise of basic macro indicators, and therefore the main fiscal taxes. Finally, the 2005 revenue forecast was made using scientific approaches. Together with scientists, developed methods and models for forecasting tax revenue into the budget. In particular, when calculating the amount of VAT, a methodology was used to reflect economic indicators such as household end and consumer expenditure, the gross accumulation of capital, consumer demand. But at the same time, we have a projection of the consolidated budget for the basics. income, funding costs for the next 3 years and long-term prospects. If we plan to completely eliminate debt in the following year, in 2005 and 2006, we can continue tax reforms to reduce tax rates and reduce the level of GDP redistribution through the budget. To date, a qualified government team is working to ensure implementation of the 2003 budget, a budgeted rate of 8 months of the current year and will be able to implement the 2005 budget in the parameters in which it is presented. The 2005 budgets take into account certain actions. The factors that are inherent in the economy of Ukraine. So this is not going to affect the planned coming next year, as you know at the end of 2005, consumer price index is expected at +6.2%, and the producer price index is going to be 5.3%. Overall, the socio-economic development of the country, the rise in macroeconomic indicators, the further steps in tax reform will ensure a significant increase in tax revenues in gross domestic product in the future. Next, according to the requirements of the budget resolution, the deficit threshold in 2005 is 1.3% of GDP, which is 0.9% less than the plan for the current year. Thus, the government budget deficit in 2005 is estimated at nearly 5 billion dollars, of which 1.1 billion dollars is funded by the loans of international financial institutions, the rest 3.9 billion dollars -- coming from the privatisation of state property. The principle is that the deficit is planned methodically, since privatization under financial statistics is included in the financing section. As in recent years, the government will not engage in consumer borrowing. So for 2005, the amount of government borrowing is projected at 8.7 billion dollars, which is 1.3 billion dollars or 12 percent less than the current year’s plan. At the same time, the amount of government debt payments is projected at 8.8 billion dollars, about 180 million dollars less than the 2004 plan. In 2004, debt service in the general budget of the State budget was 5.6 percent. And the following year, it's going to go down to 4.7 percent, indicating a reduction in the cost of the budget. So taking into account the real situation in the external market and the state of the internal market of capital, this amount of borrowing is as possible to preserve macroeconomic stability, the positive trend in optimising debt burden on the budget, and this in turn is the basis of the government's austerity policy to improve the core indicators that characterize the marginal government debt threshold. The ratio of government direct and guaranteed debt to GDP for 2005 is expected to be 21 percent, almost three times lower than the critical level. For 2004, 25 percent is expected. And I want to remind some economists that, according to the Budget Code and the Ukrainian National Bank Act, emissions cannot be a source of funding for budget expenditure, even more. For the first time in 2004, the government began to service the credits of the National Bank of 10 years ago. And in accordance with article seven, the Ukrainian National Budget 2005 bill provides for the repayment of some 265 million dollars in debt. In addition, the government will pay part of the debt in 2005 on domestic government debt to pay off the long-term budget debt for the added value. Regarding the 2005 inter-budgetary approach. Government policies continue to provide support for the development of regions. A well-established local budget position, a positive trend in all taxes and a trend in the growth of key macroeconomic indicators affecting incomes, has enabled the forecasting of local budgets for 2005 to reach 17.3 billion. The amount of money that is 14 percent higher than expected arrivals in 2004. There is an increase in the share of local budgets in the consolidated budget, which for the first time reached more than 43 percent. It should be noted that the mechanism to increase part of the local budget expenditure cannot be the determining direction of the State’s budgetary policy. Full inventory of the powers and relationships of state and local authorities and self-government should be carried out, they should be clearly identified in the laws and only then determined the proportions of the distribution of resources between the State and the regions. In 2005, the increase in local budget expenditure will be 22 percent on the general fund, including an estimated cost of more than 29 percent. The 2005 budget project envisions an increase in investment in human capital by increasing expenditure on education and health as priority areas, including through improvements in the allocation of inter-budgetary transfers. The most important issue is to ensure that the minimum wage level is raised. Local income figures have added over 3.3 billion to ensure that inter-employment ratios are maintained. For the first time, in order to improve the material base of budgetary institutions, there are additional costs for current capital repairs -- about 200 million dollars. That's right. According to the State budget, more than 1.8 billion are planned for the region. Money on centralized programs - health care, education, immunoprophylactics, tuberculosis control, oncology, diagnostic equipment, insulin, school bus, computerization of rural schools, and so on. In addition, the 2005 budget includes a subsidy from the State budget to local governments to implement disaster bias and prevent technological catastrophes in housing and utilities and to implement investment projects worth 900 million dollars. The main priority of the 2005 State Budget project is social orientation. This is not only evident but also natural, for every decision that is made calls for a person to see. In recent years, therefore, social spending — including social protection, social security, health care, education, cultural and physical development — has been the focus of considerable attention. The development of the draft budget for 2005 took into account the main objectives of medium-term budget policy, such as promoting a pre-eminent increase in the rate of real income of the population, particularly in terms of wages compared to GDP. History is familiar with examples of such policies that produce the desired results. There are fundamental calculations and explanations on each direction of the proposed bill. So I'm going to build on my presentation, stressing what was done for the first time, and you can see that on the slides. For the first time, social spending has reached its maximum level -- almost 55 percent. In particular, the project has planned additional expenditure for an increase of 20.6 per cent of the staff of the budget institutions with the aim of introducing a minimum wage of 262 dollars from 1 January 2005 to maintain inter-employment ratios, which is about 5 billion dollars. Increasing the minimum wage is one of the factors that directly affect population income growth. For the gradual recovery of the previously impaired ratios in the salaries of budget workers, measures have been taken to increase the level of pay. During the last two years, the average monthly budget salary has doubled. On slides, you can see how the wages of educational, health and health workers have changed and what levels are planned to reach in the following year. But we don't stop at that. We have a clear plan of action for the medium term and a step-by-step reform in pay. But all expenses must be provided with financial resources. It should be borne in mind that since 2005, there has been an increase in the social benefits of taxing income from 61 bracelets to 130 dollars. This will allow not only nominally but also real increase in citizens’ income. Today’s government has given considerable attention to the implementation of pension reform, which is a major achievement of which is the preservation of a positive trend towards increasing the cost of pensions and benefits. I will note that in September of this year, the government, in agreement with the Budget Committee, introduced a monthly state-of-the-art pension assistance to pensioners, whose size is lower than the subsistence minimum, for those who have lost their jobs: 264 bracelets 69 copies. You're making a decision that's very well-founded. The government has taken a decisive step towards increasing social standards only when it is fully convinced that economic growth, significant improvements in income from the Pension Fund and taxes on the budget provide the necessary financial resources. We do not expect that this supplement will solve all the problems that are in citizens’ pensions. However, the concept of the solution was solved. For the first time, the State has implemented and implemented 46 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly state that pensions, other social benefits and aid, which are the main source of existence, should ensure a standard of living no less than the subsistence minimum established by law. That's why we consider such a decision by the government historically, and for the future we assume that the task of the government, the implementation of pension reform and the withdrawal of pensions to a level worthy of the lives of our citizens is a priority. Yes, in the 2005 State Budget project, total expenditure is projected. Ukraine’s pension fund for pensions and relief amounts to 5.1 billion without taking into account the pensions of military personnel, which will double the planned expenditure of the current year. During the current year, expenditure for the provision of assigned payments of some 3 billion dollars will be funded from surplus incomes to the budget, as well as from the increase in the income of the Pension Fund, and from the increase in own income of the Pension Fund, primarily due to the growth of the Labour Fund, as well as from the transfers of the State Budget and other sources of the Pension Fund of Ukraine. The budget of the Pension Fund in 2005 is projected to be balanced and inefficient. I'll give you two more digits. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the budget of the Pension Fund for income of 31.8 billion as of 11 March of this year. Now we have 36 billion. According to previous estimates, the pension fund's income for 2005 is projected at 43.6 billion dollars, i.e. we already have about 12 billion dollars of income growth of the Pension Fund, and we all know that the pension fund's budget is approved after the adoption of the State Budget Act, and we will not allow any speculation on the lack of resources for pension payments when Ukraine's State Budget Act 2005 is finally approved. We're also introducing a rule that, if necessary, will cover the amounts in the temporary cash breaks of the Pension Fund at the expense of a single treasury account of the State Budget. [[Article 68]] In 2005, nearly 1 billion dollars are planned to increase the military’s pension expenditure, three times the average pension rate. One and a half times the calculated size used in determining the amount of State social assistance. For the first time, it is envisaged that citizens' money savings in the Savings Bank will be paid off by paying off the citizens' debt for energy consumption as a result of the debt of the past years of the companies of the FHC, a fuel-energy complex of 6 billion dollars in tax payments to the budget. In the absence of debt, it is proposed that citizens pay 20 percent of the current payments. In addition to the social dimension, these calculations in 2005 will allow for the reform of housing and utilities. For the first time, the budget for the following year provides 690 million sums to compensate unpaid teachers and academic and pedagogical workers for their years and to assist in granting annual leave in accordance with article 57 of the Education Act. It is estimated that expenditure on educational services in general is three times higher than that in 2000 and is estimated at nearly 22 billion dollars. It is worth noting that 400 million dollars are to be added to this amount, which is planned for the following year, as compensation to citizens for the costs paid for training in vocational and higher education institutions through the tax benefit system. This is the instrument that will be implemented for the first time. For the first time in 2005, budget expenditure is foreseen for the preparation of experts on contractual and competitive principles, resulting from the volume of government procurement. In doing so, spending in this direction increases by about 40 percent and is protected by next year’s budget. The project provides a concentration of resources to address urgent health issues. Thus, the expenditure of the consolidated health budget in the following year will rise against the current year’s figures, nearly two billion dollars. Compared to 2000, there are 7.7 billion dollars or 2.6 times. The following year we will celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders. In this regard, for 2005, veterans are to be announced for the year and double the annual annual annual financial assistance to war veterans. The cost of eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster will remind us of the terrible events of the past. And this year we can confidently say that we were completely in debt. At the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u235	Allow me, your honor, to complete the First Vice Prime Minister's report. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u236	At the same time, we continue to make positive progress in increasing current spending on the social protection of black people. The rate of growth for the following year varies at 20 percent, and under such a program as comprehensive health care for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the increase is double. On the screen you can see the size of a one-time monthly aid. Next. For the first time since the following year, expenditure is proposed to be approved by the National Budget Act, with a separate spending on consumption and development expenditure. The nominal amount of the development budget is going to be 23.8 billion dollars. Development expenditure is expected to be generated through research into the development of state development programmes, other investment costs in the real economy and capital expenditure, including a special purpose. Previously, when we didn't do the income part, we only paid social costs while cutting capital, and now in the last two years we've been increasing and spending 100% on PC, industry, the coal sector, which is the real sector of the economy, which then, in turn, pays taxes on the budget. In the short run, I'm not going to count all the differences in the proposed project, I'm just going to stop at the so-called real sector and the targeted programs. There has been an increase in the support and development costs for the agro-industry sector and the rural social infrastructure, which for 2005 are projected at 8.2 billion dollars, which is 3.1 billion dollars, or 1.6 times more than the plan for the current year, taking into account changes. The government's financial policy, which takes into account the specificities of agriculture, with its high risk to creditors and weather-climate dependence and specificity in the production costs cycles, is why we are taking all the steps to support its development. As in that year, a concentration of government budget expenditure will be made on the most important directions of agro-industrial production. You can see that on the slide. At the same time, the support and development of the agricultural sector and the village is a broader concept that penetrates other programs and other money managers and is provided in various forms of support. So our calculations are that the expenditure in this direction is much more than 10 percent of the total budget expenditure. Defence spending has achieved large numbers and quality structures that enable financial support for the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, their expansion and the resupply of the army with new technology. The Ministry of Defence's first projected spending of 164 million dollars on the transfer of housing funds to municipal property. Expenditure on non-retirement defence increases by 35 percent or 2.8 billion compared to 2004. The bill also provides for an increase of $1,279 in the average monthly salary of one officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, about twice as much as the average monthly salary of an employee in Ukraine. And one more moment. For the first time, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy costs for the transfer of social infrastructure objects on the balance of coal - mining enterprises in municipal property are estimated at about 100 million. With regard to the implementation of the 2005 Main Directions of Budget Policy. The 2005 State Budget project takes into account most of the guidelines approved by the Supreme Council for the main directions of budgetary policy for the following year. So the total of 115 offers and errands is 96, partially counted 18. The question is, Why has the government failed to take into account individual proposals made by national deputies in their entirety? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the main thrusts of fiscal policy for 2005 were adopted by you on June 24th and that the Supreme Council had already concluded the session on July 1st. Since these proposals require changes to valid legislative and regulatory acts or the adoption of new ones, which will certainly take a long time, they have not been adequately reflected in the 2005 draft State Budget Act. Such projects include: the Tax Code adopted in the second reading; amendments to the Budget Code; the draft Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for Grants to the State Budget, which was not even considered in the session hall or elsewhere. Ukraine's draft State Budget 2005 is a document that, on the one hand, takes into account the legislative framework for reducing the tax burden on Ukraine's economy and, on the other hand, the need to address urgent socio-economic issues and fully complies with the principles of building the government's budget system and the government's action programmes, consistency, efficiency, responsibility. The adoption of this bill will contribute to financial stability in the state. Therefore, the government urges you to do what is necessary for the full, objective and impartial consideration and approval of the 2005 and the timely budget, as well as for the prevention of distortions or manipulation of calculations. In the light of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, he requests that the draft Ukrainian Act "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2005" be adopted for consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, the First Deputy Prime Minister's report has been completed. Please sign up for the question. We agreed for 15 minutes on a question. Please sign in. On the board, indicate the names of the national deputies that have been registered. Valery Assadchev, please. A total of 70 national deputies were enrolled in questions from the site. Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear Mikola Janovich, I wanted you to answer two very important social questions that concern our pensioners today, first of all, and investors. Even so, in the 2005 budget there is a provision for pension payments up to the minimum of living, which government is now trying to buy pensioners? Because according to our calculations, it's about 12 billion. The bracelet, and we don't see them at the Pension Fund yet. And the second. I want you to explain to the Supreme Council the procedure for so-called interaccounts with the funds that were in our investors' accounts for six billion. Who's going to cheat? How can you tell which discounts this will be, and why is it not made living money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u239	I already answered that question in the report. The pension fund budget for the following year, which will be approved after the adoption of the budget, will provide sufficient funds for the payment of national aid to the minimum cost of living. On the second question, the report on the slide also clearly shows how transactions will be made between investors of the former Sbergbank of the Soviet Union and debts for housing and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u240	Yes, Sergey Matvienko instead of Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u241	All normative documents will be approved by the government and clarifications given by December 1st of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u242	Matthews instead of Boyka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u243	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Nikolai Janović, the budget is not bad at first sight. In general, it is possible to assess the budget as a result of its implementation, as the articles will be supplemented, as the articles will be filled out, which will actually win our electorate, which will be given to Ukrainian citizens. But I would like to raise this question: there are normal conditions for raising wages for teachers, doctors and so on. It's a normal positive move. However, Nikolai Janović: the methodology or methodology for the formation of local budgets, regional budgets. Cities, industrial cities, like Mariupol, are an exception. That is, practically, the fact that we are today imposing the model that we are today putting on the rise is being hit in the same regions. That is, there is absolutely no incentive for industrial cities to work today to increase production volumes. We're creating a waiting mood. That is, the worse the city works, the more it receives from the Central Budget, the better the city works, the more it will receive exemptions. Let us, in the end, approach, look at the budget resolution, let us stop this process. What do we give birth to in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u244	You asked a difficult question. It is related to the principal function of the Power, namely, to equalize and take account of the characteristics, to reflect on industry and to generate income by region. So historically, some areas of Ukraine are highly developed, with high incomes, other areas are less developed in industrial terms, and there are areas that are almost 100 per cent subsidized, even in such areas. The task of the Government and the State, above all, is to ensure that the teacher, the doctor and any budget worker have approximately the same social development parameters. This is an extremely difficult task, and it is implemented in each State Budget Act by a method of equivalency. Well, I'll say that the method of equalization is laid down in the Budget Code, you've accepted it, the people's deputies. You voted in favour of the formula on which the income adjustment and redistribution mechanism is implemented. And that's why you have the right to change that formula. The budget is based on an existing regulatory framework and therefore sets out the approaches that exist in the Ukrainian Budget Code. And in terms of incentives, well, I'll say that local budgets have grown by a few billion, so there's an incentive. And in the 2005 budget, we will consolidate the situation, and we have already considered that we will leave in the budgets areas, cities, areas of over-planned income. We will thus encourage the development of a local income base.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u245	Mikola Janović, the National MPs are asking you to give a shorter answer because there are so many questions they want to ask. Please, Loboda. He's behind him, Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u246	Dear Mikola Janovich, until now the Cabinet of Ministers has not made any proposals for the allocation of 75 million funds for investment projects, and the financial year is almost over. And the second question. Why the negative attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers and the government as a whole toward medicine? You will see that today, the health - care industry and the Academy of Medical Sciences have been reduced by 20 percent. And in terms of GDP, it's going down from 3.2 in 2003, and project 3 is going to go down by just a percentage. 0.2 from GDP. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u247	Dear People's Deputy Loboda, you're actually speaking to the whole country because, I understand, the broadcast is coming. So if you're bringing numbers, answer for those numbers. The budget provides for a significant increase in health expenditures. I've given you these numbers on the slides, they're in the law, it's enough to open the page. But I'm going to name this dynamic specifically for the radio audience. If the total medical expenditures in 2000 amounted to 4 billion 800 million, a total of 12.6 billion is planned for 2005. And if you compare it to 2004, that's roughly 2.5 times. Yeah, for a minute. Two and a half times in a few years. Let's move on. Compare 2004 expenditure, i.e. the current year. Expenditures of 10 billion 666 million. And compared to the government's planned expenditure for the 2005 Rick. That's 12 billion 617 million. I mean, almost two billion more. But how much less do you ask about health care? What's that? As far as the budget of the Academy of Medical Sciences is concerned, we will consider this issue. In 2004, expenditure on the Academy of Medical Sciences was significantly higher than in 2003. We consider the development of the Academy of Medical Sciences to be a priority, and I think we will keep this trend in 2005. Be assured that the funding of the Academy of Medical Sciences will rise at a preliminary pace.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u248	Please, Nightmare. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u249	Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine, 160 constituency, Sumska District, Deaf. Dear Mikolo Janovich! Only the one who doesn't want to see the development of our budget in the 2003, 2004, 2005 process. But the process of budgeting itself and all the participants in the process can be divided into two stages. The first stage. Districts, city budgets are convincing us about the low income and asking us to increase the subsidy. Then there are additional arrivals, and they start asking us not to delete 50 percent, as foreseen in the 2004 budget. In particular, the proposal to change the formula is made, for example, 70 percent to leave to local budgets and 30 percent to the state budget. This will stimulate our budget participants. And to some extent, my question is linked to the problem that raised Matvienkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u250	Today we are starting the budget process. We have to go through the first reading together, the second reading. And as part of this process, we will consider proposals, debates, and I am confident that we will now accept agreed solutions. I agree with you that this problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u251	Please, Kalinchuk. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u252	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mikolo Janovich! Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine It is positive that the 2005 draft State Budget in Ukraine is based on the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code and is generally based on its position. It takes into account the main thrusts of budgetary policy and budget reform in improving the budgetary process and further developing inter-budget relations. At the same time, I support the questions that were asked by my colleague Noshchenko. And we have, personally, two questions. First. Mikola Janovich, we've been seeing you. Do you confirm the basic numbers for the agri-industrial complex we agreed on? There you can remember 9.2 billion and 7.4 billion dollars. And the second question. Is it designed to establish inter-staff, inter-qualified ratios in the salaries of budget workers? Thank you for your response, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u253	Well, first. Local budgets. Here, we come back to this problem all the time. I'd like to ask you a question. Is there one area in Ukraine, a city, an area where all social expenses are not fully paid? Where is the budget not implemented? I'm responsible: no! And if there's a people's MP who shouts here, there is! What prevents them from entering the government and stating such facts? I guarantee you that if there are such debts, the government will solve this problem within one week. There's no debt. I'm responsible. The problem in local budgets is therefore in development, in development budgets. I mean, it's clear that every local budget, and every city there and so on, an area in the course of the last, there, 15 years, we'll make it conditional to live on the principle of consumption only, and this year alone we'll be allocating 400 million bracelets from the state budget for investment projects and all over the country now are going to be repaired, put in order and so on and so forth. Already in next year's budget, we are placing 900 million grevens -- two of the main problems of local budgets. So when we looked at the Ministry of Finance, all the areas went through us, absolutely. We put the problem first. Yes, we said, with wages we decided, with social benefits we decided, now it's our job to move on and think about development. Somewhere on the subway, somewhere in the pipeline, somewhere in the pipeline, somewhere in the building, somewhere in the schools, somewhere in the hospitals, that kind of program will be implemented in the 2005 budget and the following years. Now for the agrarian complex. We've met with you, I mean the Agrarian faction, we've discussed 7.2 billion, these 7.2 billion will be executed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u254	Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u255	Stepan Bulba, Socialist faction, please pass the word to Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u256	Please, Barranowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u257	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Mikola Janović, you know what kind of fights were made into the budget of 8 billion dollars that were voted as changes to the budget. And these changes included retirement, scholarships, Chernobyl spending, medicine, medicine, and so on. And when today’s cabinet members, let’s say the Prime Minister, rides and reports that the government has added a pension, the government has added a scholarship, in our view it is very unfair. These issues were resolved in June of this year. And I guess I should have said it the way it is. I'd like to give you an evaluation. And I have the following question. Please tell me why the Constitution is being violated and, contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, the benefits for the military are once again the ones they should use. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u258	Dear Mr. Baraniwsky, you may have noticed that in my report, I was ashamed to tell the whole country the size of the military's pension. I'm embarrassed. Let's draw a conclusion from that. All the pills that are available were saved in 2004. And I was embarrassed not because they were small, but because I was ashamed that other retirees would not think. We have not done what the government has done this year to equalize pensions for the military, to address the social problems of the military in any of the last 13 years. So let's not ask this question, otherwise I'm really going to be sounding the numbers. Now, as far as I'm concerned. I think it's important for the retirees to get this targeted assistance. That's what matters. And it's already paid. And then we'll split the laurels.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u259	Thank you, Milo Yanovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Prashenko Petr Alexiyovich, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u260	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Something to do with the microphone. A few years ago, the presentation of the budget was a matter of great interest in the hall. You know, right now, I'm just surprised that when we make a presentation of the budget we have no attention, no interest from the people's deputies in this key document, the economic constitution of the country, doesn't exist. I'd like to get your attention anyway, because this year, 2005 is going to be a turning point in the economy. I have a decision to make yesterday's meeting with the Committee on Budgets. By the way, I would like to point out, Sir Adam Ivanovich, that according to 39 articles of the Budget Code, the function of the Budget Committee is to inform the Supreme Council of the compliance of the Government's draft Budget Code. The main thrust of budgetary policy for unclear reasons was that people's deputies were deprived of the opportunity to familiarize themselves with yesterday's decision by the budgetary committee; it was not distributed in the hall because the apparatus said that it was inappropriate to do so. I would ask that we remove this inadequacy so that you can assign decisions to the budget committee. Secondly, the committee in its decision noted the social orientation of this budget for the following year and you can see it in the text of the decision. Yesterday, 16 national deputies voted in favour of the government, which was part of the God - given parliamentary majority. The two national deputies voted in favour of the decision by giving the votes for the commission. The decision highlights the main observations and inadequacies of the draft Law on the Budget Code and the budgetary resolutions, as well as the recommendations and assignments of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Among the positive points were that, at last, after the Supreme Council had adopted the Law against which the government had been firm, by the way, on the restructuring of the debt from payments provided for in article 57 of the Education Act and in accordance with that law, payments were made on a phased basis to non-payments paid in 97-2000 to pedagogical and scientific and pedagogical workers for benefits of seniority, the government had to take these expenses into account in the 2005 budget project. And that's a positive. At the same time, the decision noted the inadequacy of the draft budget law with some provisions of the budget resolution and the budget code. In particular, the government is invited to suspend the rules governing the mechanism for the collection of taxes from the income of individuals to the local budgets. What is it? About 600 million dollars, which are the income base of local budgets, the revenues paid by military personnel, the government removes from local budgets and takes into the Central Budget. This practice was justified because it was introduced in 2004. No explanation was given as to why the resources of the local budgets were taken in 2005 in spite of the requirements of the Budget Code. Without order, the government decided to allow local authorities to borrow. It is not clear when, how, and who will give them away. More than ten articles of the draft budget do not match or conflict with the budget code. Almost half of the appointments and proposals of the Supreme Council by the government in the draft budget are either unaccounted for or partially accounted for. Unaccounted for in the Budget Resolution on implementation, for example, since 2005 only a tariff network. I would like to refer to the management of the court unions that are not in this room: how do they support a government that does not comply with the requirement of a single tariff network, and why are they not in the hall today to defend the interests of the workers? the following, the non-compliance with the ban on the increase in the number of executive authorities and the application of measures to reduce them in 2005 is no less than 10 percent. This was a clear commission that the Supreme Council voted on reducing officials and bureaucrats. Dear colleagues, respected radio audiences, and television audiences! During this year, Ukraine's 2004 population declined by more than 400,000. During the same year, the number of executive officials and those who receive a salary from the budget increased by more than 13,000. If we go at this rate, we have more officials today than the population. The committee formally reported on all these inconsistencies, but given the timetable of forces, a decision was made to recommend to the Supreme Council that the budget be taken into consideration. Once again, I would like to stress that all representatives of the so - called former majority should be voted for. Frankly, we were forced to consider this position because the better budget would not be given by this government. I am absolutely convinced that in the presentation of the budget, in what way are they going to finance the promises that the Prime Minister makes during the election campaign, he should respond and be present today, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister, including this function, does not. I'd like to stop, and I'd like to look at some of the basic things that are contained in the draft budget. First. We always started with the income part of the budget. Everybody's got an osmosis that the government is proud of 13-14 percent GDP growth. As it is reflected in the revenue of this year's budget, I will not comment. But some government is predicting what will happen in the country because, despite the favourable external economic situation, at a pace of development, the government has significantly reduced the GDP forecast for the following year without any explanation to be found in the explanatory note to the State budget. I emphasize that instead of 13 - 14 percent, the government has set an eight - percent increase in GDP, which implies a loss of income, or concealment in the income section of the State Budget, of an amount measured at more than eight billion dollars. Do we have reason to say so? Of course, the Budget Committee will propose to the Supreme Council a detailed calculation of the income base of the budget, the distribution by contingent, and certainly we will, as in the past and past years, prove once again to the government that it is not worth hiding the income of the budget. At the same time, I would like to highlight other very important macro indicators. In particular, I'd like to stop for inflation. Dear colleagues, a month ago, when, as a member of the Board of the National Bank, the only one stressed that our country was on the threshold of ambiguous inflation, that is, not 5.5 and not 6.2 as we tried to impose the government, and that inflation would be more than 10 percent this year, then the government defiantly commented that this was not possible and that the position of the powder should not be taken into account. Today, inflation figures are calling out from the shelves of shops, from the prices of food in markets, from government officials driving by car stations, and from every gas station there is a disgrace to the Prime Minister, who promised that before the A-95 election, the price would not exceed 2 bracelets of 90 copies. And I am convinced that these promises as this promise of the prime minister were. Why, by the way, is it surprising that the prime minister was going to hold the A-95, not the diesel fuel that today is the key to providing the village? And so today, when they were administratively trying to fulfill this promise of the Prime Minister, the honourable peasants, I think you're hearing it, and I'm addressing the representatives of the agrarian faction, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party, which today has come to the point that diesel fuel is already costing in certain regions more than 95th gasoline. What is the reason why the government is so unconcerned? I think that today, 40 days before the presidential elections, trying to spread the country so widely with oil refiners, so much after the signatures of the President's and Prime Minister's administration began to pass the Kremencuckian, Galicin's, other factories that they don't know who to turn to to to keep these prices and how to push them. And who's going to be responsible for this, I think we'll know clearly in less than 40 days. I would like to continue that the topic of inflation today is not only the price of basic food, but the cost of the consumer basket has increased almost twice as much as the inflation. And there's no way of covering or increasing by 10 percent of the wage actually the real income of the population, the real cost of living, the quality of life in Ukraine as a result of this government's actions has been reduced. The last barrier that fell as a result of such populism payments made by the government was the course. And everyone today can make sure that, despite the huge reserves of gold, the rate of money in relation to the dollar that the head of the National Bank should be responsible for instead of driving and leading the Prime Minister's headquarters, the principle of the position that the National Bank should be independent of the government, and any citizen of another country does not understand how the head of the National Bank can lead the headquarters of the same Prime Minister. And the best estimate is given by the Ukrainian people, who see that in the absence of the head of the National Bank, we already have a course instead of 5,30 - 5,41; 5, 42; and at the course, prices will necessarily go down. I'd like to answer Mr. Kalinchuk in the village, on the questions he asked very politely, as the first Vice-Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Kalinchuk! Ladies and gentlemen, members of the People's Agrarian Party! You've been tricked. Have no illusions. These 10 percent, as recorded in the Budget Resolution, are not there. And even the 8 billion that have been recorded and supposedly raised today on the screens of this screen, the 1 billion that have been set up in a special fund, is financed by income from the poor, including 800 million construction of gas pipelines in the countryside, for which you will be asked, including 200 million when you create the fund. And for this special fund, so-called unreliable arrivals, no one from the government is going to answer. Along with what they took to the peasants? From January 1st to the peasants, they took the tax benefit to the added value. And every peasant will pay 20 percent, and of the 7 billion who supposedly offered the village this government and, this prime minister. Billions of dollars will go to the banks, the peasants won't get there, billions will go to the factories to compensate the complex technology just for the amount they're going to rob and defraud the village, billions will go to the buyers. Don't give me any illusions. This budget won't come back. Question one, demand that the living money be funded by 10 percent of the budget resolution. Another macroindicator is strange enough. Everyone knows that the government has put 118 billion dollars in the budget in macro indicators. I'd like you to open up a second volume and see the medium term, the government's medium-term plans for 2006, and you'll see that when the 2005 budget is 118 billion, the 2006 inflation budget is 117 billion, one billion less. Yesterday we asked the government officials how it happened. We've been told that, Your Honor, in 2006, we have only planned for one year a so-called compensation scheme for citizens' savings. By the way, the return to the claims that were eliminated by the government of Yushchenka and to this day, the pre-emptive crisis is flourishing again in this government with the use of remittances of money. So in 2006, this scheme will no longer work, and don't hope that any of this government is going to continue to compensate citizens' savings in this amount. This is written in an open text in this budget. Now I'd like to answer the honorary colleague Matvienkov about the local budgets. You asked the right question, Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko and Sergeyev. There's a weird 7th supplement, and you can also see it in the budget project, exactly half the people, half the people's deputies, especially the elderly, won't be able to see it, because it's printed, as always, in a very small font, and it's clear without glasses, or without a magnifying glass, is impossible, who tried -- can confirm my words. What does it say? I'm going to give you a translation: The government is going to continue the shameful practice of extradition to the white and black regions of Ukraine next year. Absolutely without any legislative basis, the government plans to allocate money to certain areas whose deputies are loyal to the Prime Minister. What is it? This is a bribe to an MP. Ladies and gentlemen, respect yourselves. Don't take bribes. They're not enough for everyone. I don't want to call the territories, the specific territories, because the ones they gave to, the ones they didn't give them, the voters aren't to blame. But I'm stressing once again that there are people of Class 2 for this government. You must remember this, and we certainly must not miss this shameful practice. But most of all, what I would like to stop at is my respectable colleagues, taking into account the time deficit. At the statement of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on September 14, this year, which he made in the city of Berditchev in Žitomir district, where he made people happy, first met with pensioners and found out in two years that pensioners were living poorly, that we were increasing the minimum pension. Upon returning from Berdičev, the Prime Minister signed the draft State Budget Act, which he sent to the government. The signature says that in addition, this draft budget contains plugins of 646, if I'm not mistaken, pages. What are we reading? If we analyze the Pension Fund's funds, the Pension Fund's budgets, even when we compare 2004 and 2005, you'll see that in the 2004 budget, the government gave a detailed budget to the Pension Fund, which was made up of several pages. In 2005, the Pension Fund's income and expenditure project is hidden and consists of a half-page containing 5-6 digits. And for today, why is this done? Respectable radio audiences, respected TV setters, distinguished national MPs. The increase in the minimum pension, as promised by the Prime Minister since September of this year, will not take place and will not take place in contravention of the pension law adopted by the Supreme Council, where it is clearly regulated that pension increases can only take place with the laws of Ukraine. And any decision is illegal and can or will be rescinded immediately after the election. And what evidence is there in the signed draft of the Budget Act. Dear Mikolo Janovich, the income of the Pension Fund consists of pension contributions. I would ask for one minute, Adam Ivanovich, just to inform the national MPs. Thank you. Income is made up of pension contributions. Pensions are made up of a payroll fund. Therefore, the counsel given to you by your deputies is included in the budget. And no other income, like a faucet from a sleeve, you won't take it out. You can change the value of the Pension Fund, but if you change it, it means that you cheated on the Supreme Council when you gave a macroindicator to the payroll fund. Yesterday, the head of the fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u261	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u262	Yesterday, the head of the Boris Zajchuk Pension Fund gave a press conference stressing that the income of the Pension Fund should be 52 billion dollars a year. Dear radio listeners! The government contributed 42 billion. 10 billion. You don't have a pension in the budget! The second statement. From the State Budget, not from other sources, should be counted at the Pension Fund for eight billion. There's no money in the government project. The third position that even for payments this year is to pay these payments, which is absolutely questionable legality, but we stress that pensions are urgently needed and now, but only by law. We need 3.3 billion. The government only found 2.9. And we stress that right now we need to adopt an immediate law introduced by Victor Yushchenk's bloc on the recalculation of the Pension Fund 3.3 billion. to increase the minimum pension, rather than deceiving and slandering people by giving them a pre-election bribe. Thank you for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u263	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. We have 15 minutes. Please point it on the board. Tomenko, get the Colonies ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u264	Peter Alexiovich! Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." You know, I'm looking at what the media are showing about Parliament, worried that they're informing our citizens equally: they're saying that Parliament is politicizing the budget process, and the government is thinking about the people. As we can see, and from your statement, including, everything with the opposite: the position of the committee and the parliament to make the budget real, clear and clear, rather than make it an asset of the election campaign Janukovic. How do you feel about this problem of politics and how do you comment on the rate of increase in government debt and external debt, where we have, in the official documents that we've submitted, external debt, I say to radio and television broadcasters, will increase by 129 million in Ukraine, to almost 13 billion. This government of debtors is doing the bear service to both the people and the subsequent governments, including the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u265	Thank you, Reverend Mikolo Volodymyrovich. As far as politics is concerned, I can point out that the budget committee, where almost all factions are represented, is the largest committee in the world, by the number of national MPs a committee of parliament, set up for a completely professional, non-politicized job. Yesterday we emphasized that, and I am happy that we made a decision, where we did not support a one-page proposal, to approve or recommend to the Supreme Council a budget for consideration. Period. We have to inform, this is our duty, all the national deputies, of the conformity of the Budget Resolution, the Budget Code, the Constitution of Ukraine, so that the national deputies can have sufficient information when making decisions. The decision to adopt the recommendations of the Committee on Budgets, the adoption of the budget for consideration is that it corresponds to the timetable of the Committee on Budgets. And it's been adopted and we're still set up to have the principle of the distribution of branches of power clearly worked out, so that national MPs don't gather in government, so we don't sign the decisions of the budget committee on the sixth or seventh floor. Dear colleagues, if we go this way, we will have tomorrow's meetings of the Supreme Council at a different address, and the laws will be accepted. So I'm stressing that I'm going to do everything I can to avoid politicization and preserve the profession that we've demonstrated during the development and adoption of the State Budget in 2003. It's about government debt. Dear Mikola Janovich, you're absolutely right. Although the budget resolution clearly requires a deficit reduction, so the Supreme Council has allowed the government to borrow within one percent of GDP, the government has failed to comply with this requirement in the budget resolution by proposing a deficit of 1.3 percent in the draft budget. [[Deficiency - this means that the difference between income and expenditure releases the government into the market for borrowing]] This means that the government is going to do more borrowing next year when the economy is growing than it's going to do to get the money back from the budget. And I am absolutely convinced that this norm will be clearly not supported by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u266	Peter Alexiyovich, you have the same request as Mikola Janovich: to answer your questions more quickly. Please, Coloniari. Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u267	Colonyari, 56th District, Mariupol City I ask you to pass the word to Valery Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u268	Please, it's Konovaluka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, we have once again experienced such a political manifesto, and then you call on us not to politicize the budgetary process. I have a draft decision that was approved by the Budget Committee yesterday. You from this draft decision did not say any positive position regarding this draft budget. So that's the question. How many times does it cost: two, three, five times, to give you a positive look at this in your report? That's the first question. And I want to ask you again. Why don't you report to the Committee on Budgets, so it's also a professional committee, besides you, that the National Deputies work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u270	Thank you, Valery Illich. I report that the budget committee at my meeting I announced the decision that he had adopted, I announced the positive and negative part. If you don't like this decision, you could, or my statement, you could say it at a committee meeting or you could put it in a statement from a faction where you express your personal point of view. Now, how much does the government have to increase the income or expense to make sure that Dusty or the people of Ukraine are satisfied? On one. [[B in m in s a l in]] I thank you for your high score. I'll give you an answer. [[B in m in s a l in]] The budget has to be very real, and the government doesn't have to demonstrate what it shows for two years in a row. Unbalanced, unbalanced projections are adopted, with the retention of the income part of the 2003 budget and the 2004 budget. And if you, Valérie Illich, were to attend committee meetings as the first deputy, you would know that. Now the second one. To prove this to be true, you can see that in 2003, and in 2004, we were forced to accept, in the middle of the year, changes to the budget, which would increase the income and expenditure of the budget. But this means that for six months, Valérie Illich, people were deprived of the opportunity to raise wages, pensions, and live below the minimum wage. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u271	Please, Domansky. Get ready, Jooff.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u272	Dear Pero Alexiyovich, it is clear to me and the electorate that if one oligarch is in power, he protects both the budget and the government program. If removed from power, he begins to criticize. We understand that. If you were on Janukovich's team today, you'd be here to prove everything against us. Now, two questions for you. Tell me, the budgets that Yushchenko presented to the Supreme Council are better than today's budget, or worse, and in what? And the second question. Tell me, what did the Supreme Council of Yushchenka say she didn't believe?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u273	Thank you. Dear Mr. Domansky! I will give you the answer that Yushchenko’s mistrust and government was expressed, not by the Supreme Council, but by the united union of the strangely combined oligarchs and Communists. And I think today is the day when the Communist Party is responsible for the position of leaders, because fewer and fewer people believe these leaders and this position. Second position. Was it better or worse than Yashchenka's budgets? Dear colleagues! They were better or worse, they were real. And if there was a possibility, the government's pensions rose not a month before the election, but all the time; the salary of the government of Yushchenka rose three months later, which he came and was elected Prime Minister, not a month before the election. And so we can make sure that it was a professional government, unlike the populist government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u274	The word is given by the national deputy, Joseph. Behind him, Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u275	Please pass the word Noshchenko to Nikolai Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u276	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I'm here. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 constituency, Trudova Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u277	Turn off the microphone. Please, Shevchenko, follow him Semenyuk. I'm asking the people's deputies to keep their ethics standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u278	Please pass the word to Mikhail Vasilovich Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u279	Please, Glady's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u280	Dear Peter Alexiovich! Michael Gladys, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Thank you for supporting the village. We believe that when we work on this budget in the Supreme Council, we will take these positions. I wanted to ask you a question, but you told me I would ask. Please tell me if we find other sources of funding than what you called, and the figure of 9.2 billion in total for the APC, and 7.4 for the village. Do you support yourself or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u281	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I assure you that not only am I Peter Poshenko, but the entire faction of Victor Yushchenko's block will support the increase in the village's spending because, as a result of the agricultural crisis today, the village has impoverished, as a result of the increase in the prices of fuel-oil materials, spare parts, technology, miniblatives, which this government has carried out, that I guarantee that the village today should be the top priority of the state. And 10 percent of GDP, 10 percent of the government's budget to be transferred to, and what Mr. Konovaluk is now so outraged about, criticizing you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I'm sure we're guaranteed to fund the village today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u282	Please. Dear colleagues, you're taking your time with your applause. Please, Semenyuk, get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u283	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, if you look at the appendix for the 2005 privatisation list, it can be said that today’s government is doing its best to sell the most profitable businesses, including science institutions that are not subject to privatization. So I don't have as many questions as the specific offer. Without the Special Supervisory Board's decision, without compliance with the Privatisation Act, this list will be reviewed. And the second question. Today, according to the privatization program, article 127 of the Demmeina Foundation has a so - called special fund. I mean, every day the Ministry has its own stern, including the State Property Fund. How do you view the liquidation of this fund, the suspension of article 127, and all payments to the staff of the Maintenance Foundation are made only through the budget, as provided for in the budget code. Will you consider this proposal of a special review committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u284	I thank you, Your Honor Valentina Petrovna, because the privatization of this year is a vivid example of the politics that this government is responsible for. The Supreme Council approved 2 billion dollars as coming from privatization. The day we received the budget, the privatisation was 5 billion 400 million, the government contributed and stretched through the Supreme Council 5,100. Today, overcoming the cost of selling basic, key public property items is already 4 billion dollars. And we're putting budget funding at risk in the coming years. Moreover, in this budget, the honourable Valentina Petrovna, the government is already releasing state-owned enterprises that are not corporateized from paying part of their income to the state budget, that is, the government is predicting once again that they will distribute the government without any obligation to the state budget. Of course, this position is unacceptable, we did it in 2003, and we're going to stand up for it in 2005, but the main thing is all the government budget spending, all the maintenance of government officials, all the workers working for the state, is going to happen only from the state budget. All the charity stock, the sports inventory, we can't free the hot tub from paying the added cost, as this government has now offered us, because it's going to be called a sportsman. Do you want to support sports? We're going to take money out of the government budget, these billing schemes, I'm going to stress once again, which were destroyed by the government of Yushchenka, who were returned by this government, they are guaranteed to lead to the opaque, shadowy, criminal, I'm not afraid of that word, the financial flows organized by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u285	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u286	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, have you noticed the absence of the Prime Minister in defense of the budget? It was the government that was supposed to be here in his first person. And now Azarov is gone. I think he's admitting to failing whether or not he went to prepare papers for someone else. I have a question. The new subsidies of the inadequate laws provided for in this budget are, in particular, a line in the budget that provides for the introduction of directly 60 million into the Crimean Autonomous Republic. How do you appreciate that? Because I consider it a bribe. The other one. Fifty - eighth article of the budget provides for funding without agreement with Minfin, without. Power structures. When will this stop? I don't know what the power structures are preparing for. Your grade. And one more thing. The price of gasoline is rising. The dynamics of this growth. If the dynamics continue, such a budget will cost seven dollars of gasoline by the end of the year. Is this considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u287	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I will start with the last, the government has not demonstrated in two years an understanding of the economic mechanisms, the scales that are in its hands to regulate prices. In addition to the rigid administration, the fist on the table forbids promotions that do not work, and you have found this to be true of bread, meat, gasoline, and all kinds of things, the government, its professional level, does not allow you to apply other economic measures that work around the world. I stress that the absence of the Prime Minister today demonstrates total indifference and disinterest in budgetary issues in the presentation of the budget. And what I'm doing today is explaining in my speech the problems that are in Prime Minister Janukovic's stated and signed budget, the fact that individual national MPs are so indignant and concerned, they're shouting, they're worried, they're vivid testimony that the authorities today are afraid of the truth as the cockroaches are afraid of the light. But we're going to make them answer the questions. And I assure you that the budget, which has been adopted more precisely by the Supreme Council, will be a completely different budget. Honest and transparent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u288	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. When he began his speech, his distinguished colleagues, Peter Alekseiovich, accused the apparatus of having not distributed the committee’s decisions. In response to the report of the deputy director of Yasenchuk’s Apparatus, he reports: On September 22, I repeatedly addressed the head of the Ogona Budget Committee’s secretariat with a proposal to conclude the submission to Ukraine’s 2005 National Budget project, registration number 6,000. The fire reported that the committee had not foreseen such a submission. So, Peter Alexiyovich, please take care of your secretariat and we need to reproduce, no questions asked. Please, it's Konovaluk's line. His name was mentioned. Konovaluka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u289	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, I want to talk about financing the agri-industrial complex and give an answer to Peter Alexiyovich and the distinguished national deputy Gladys. When Agrolizing refused to buy the Lenin cousin tractors in 2003, the distinguished head of the budget committee created everything to reduce funding and to cut spending under this article, on this program. Agrarians knew that. Another question is that this behavior is already having a very serious impact on the work of the committee, because we are now forced to collect a submission to the regulatory committee, because the committee cannot function fully. And this also affects the quality of the budget. And you know it all. We're going to go back to forging and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u290	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Don't shout, I hear, I hear, I hear. So let's think about it this way, I remind you again: Replics are only exchanged once when they're called names. You called the last name of Konovaluka, Konovaluk named your last name. That's the first one. The other one. I see what they want from the procedure. Please sign in. Three minutes out of the procedure. Yes, please, three minutes, point to the board. Hell, after him, he's final.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u291	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankovsky. Please pass the word to Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u292	Microphone, please, powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u293	I don't call names, but the previous MP's statement gives absolutely false information. It was thanks to the committee's principled position that we were able to increase the costs of the agrarian complex. And I insist that a few new programs were launched on the initiative of Victor Yushchenk's block. The second position that the committee's organization of work, and we can demonstrate this to our esteemed television and radio audiences, is that the committee's organization is constantly involved with 20-22 people's deputies. There is no distinguished previous MP among these deputies. It's good to go to the committee and know what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u294	Please, the Final One. None. Loboda, behind him is Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u295	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I asked the First Vice Prime Minister the first question about investment. Sadly, he did not answer, and you did not respond. There is now no Prime Minister or First Deputy Prime Minister in the Hall. What are we discussing today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u296	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the head of the Committee on Budgets has been speaking too well from the rostrum. I'm talking to you: I think we're just wasting our parliamentary time. The budget should be adopted by the government that will carry it out. This government is working for another month at most. So, dear colleagues, let's not waste time looking at this bluff that we've been offered, but we're just going to create a working group that will be based on the future parliamentary majority, and that starts to develop the budget of the new government. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u298	Yeah, we got another minute. Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u299	Dear colleagues, I think that today we have shown our radio audiences and TV viewers that, unfortunately, discussions on professionalism in the budget are not realistic. You and I are hearing about the candidates for the Presidents, the work of the election headquarters, the timing of the elections, the fact that someone is identifying himself with the people of Ukraine, well, I'm not talking about the fact that very bad, that pensioners are getting extra money, is also bad. Here's a little bit more of this logic, I repeat, not to our colleagues, but to our radio audiences and TV viewers: a little bit more calm to see what's going on here. Regrettably, even some of the people in the room are not satisfied with how and who are trying to build their own interests on the subject of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u300	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for some of your comments, especially the National Deputy of Loboda. There's a good point, but I'd like to ask the people's deputies: if you want to get an answer to the question that hurts you the most and touches you, ask one question -- and they will definitely answer it. And if there are many questions, it is appropriate that the person who answers forgets the first question to answer the last. But let us ask Mikola Janovich when he will make a closing statement so that he will pay attention to the problem. Next. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that 40 minutes of time will be spent for the factions of factions, committees, and national deputies. So if you don't mind, let's work 40 of these minutes before making a decision, and then we'll take a break. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's take a break. Let's see. Then, please, 40 minutes to discuss the matter. It's three minutes from the factions. Please, Baranowski, the Socialist faction. Prepare the Voisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u301	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The budget discussion, his report, the report that Prašenko made, again says that the budget is unprofessional, dishonest. He'll be honest, professional when he's an honest and decent president. We choose President Frost, everything will be fine. The Socialist faction carefully examined the government's 2005 draft budget for Ukraine and considered it at its meeting. We came to the conclusion that, at first sight, GDP growth figures and budget revenues should be pleasant to Ukrainian citizens. But this is at first sight. As we analyzed it, we came to the conclusion that it is more of a populace, or more of a promise to the people, adjusted for the future election of the president. The government claims that in 2005 production prices will increase by 108.9 percent and the consumer, that is, in the market, by 107 percent. What's the point? Who's gonna sell the product cheaper than they bought? There's a sharp price jump hidden here. A sharp increase in income is offered by the government at the expense of 2 major sources. It's an increase in VAT by 11.6 billion and an increase in revenue from the Special Fund. Socialists ask where this VAT increase will come from when the tax controls come in this year are much more modest and not implemented. Such a congregation is possible only with sharp price increases, that is, with inflation. The additional 9.7 billion to the Special Forces are planned to be taxed in the past years, at the expense of the village and residential services that were provided. It is clear to everyone that these debts will not be repaid. We can't count on them, because we know where the village and the communal sphere are today. Along with this, from the funds that will come. will not come, the government proposes, more loyally misleading the population of Ukraine 6 billion to recover savings. Clearly, this will not be done, and if shadowlike schemes go off, they will simply be stolen. Of these, 800 million are planned for the village. Again, it is said that no more than three feet [1 m] of pipe will be placed in the village. We're nothing. We, dear friends, were looking again this morning. Alexander Moroz made a number of budget proposals. First. Prohibiting the budget for admission to pay and paying less than full wage, predicting free nutrition for children in preschools, in 1st and 3rd grade, spending on producing land acts so that people get them for free. To recover the lost savings, it is necessary to provide for the general fund. The socialists do not understand how the list of objects to be privatized was formed. The cost of road construction is not fully spent. That the rent for gas transit is in bracelets, not in dollars when such inflation takes place. Why is Minfin going to take credit without being part of the Supreme Council? What is this non-state pension fund for civil servants who are assigned 400 million dollars and who owns this fund?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u302	The word is from the Social Democratic Party faction. Pinzenic will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u303	Dear colleagues! We all understand that next year's budget is being reviewed in the context of a presidential election campaign. And that can't stop the movement and the results of this consideration. However, we must make every effort to ensure that the draft budget is objective and depoliticized. The SDPI faction categorically rejects the idea of some politicians that the new budget should be considered and adopted after the President's election and the formation of a new government. By no means should the Supreme Council impose the budgetary process on the political situation, the consequences of the struggle for power. This was irresponsible in relation to our electorate. The budgetary processes, the terms of the draft budget are clearly set out in the relevant legislation. And it is our duty to adhere strictly to these standards. The 2005 draft budget submitted to the Supreme Council is entirely in line with the new situation in Ukraine’s economy, which is linked to the record rate of economic growth achieved during the period of the government of Viktor Yanukovic. The very income figure of the budget of 110 billion dollars shows that there are, in principle, new economic opportunities that allow for a new approach to the solution of, above all, key social problems. So the cost goes up to 115 billion dollars and it's a record amount since the country was formed. The SDPI faction notes that the main feature of the draft budget is its social orientation. As a result of the social-democratic party's programming positions, we have raised the issue of increasing the social orientation of the budget for more than a year and therefore support the movement in this direction. [[united]] Overall, more than 60 percent of the budget is planned next year for social needs. It is even important to say the direction of social expenditure, which does not include an increase in the budget. In 2005, compared to this year, the average salary of doctors and teachers will be nearly double. In addition, the debt owed to teachers accumulated as a result of the failure of previous governments to comply with the requirements of article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine will begin to be repaid. Twice compared to the current year, the total expenditure on pensions and benefits increases. Thus, the government of Viktor Yanukovic proposes a real, tangible increase in social costs. And the following year will not repeat the situation of the year 2000, when the nominal increase in expenditure on basic social articles was over-inflationed. Taking all this into account, our faction considers the proposed government of Viktor Yanukovitch to be the best budget for 2005 for Ukraine's independence. So we support this budget ourselves and we urge everyone to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u304	Thank you. The word is Pinzenik from the faction "Our Ukraine." He will be followed by Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u305	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Every day, we hear more and more about the state budget bill becoming a political instrument as an electoral tool for one of the presidential prime ministers of Ukraine. The faction "Our Ukraine" wants to make the budget law a professional document, and to make sure that some of the standards that are proposed do not work for the term of the electoral company, but are a mandatory norm for the whole year. We have repeatedly claimed that there are hidden budget revenues, and we have repeatedly argued that there is an opportunity in the government to raise wages and pensions. And this should not be done during the election period, as the current government does, and this should be the norm for the stable behaviour of the Ukrainian authorities. Let's focus on a few of the basic points of the draft budget. Dear colleagues, you've been given materials, calculations that I've done myself. On the one hand, the budget of the pension fund, which was given by the Government at 41 billion dollars, is expenditure, and here's the calculation of the need to increase the pension, taking into account the budget grants, the amount of the need is 49 billion dollars. Please tell me, do we really have the right to swallow this decision? That pension increases should be provided with adequate financial resources for the budget. The second principle is that in the draft, the government's supply resolution budget provides for the right rule for the advance wage growth compared to the GDP growth rate. Raise the budget bill, with a 34% increase in total budget income, the real salary does not go up, the cost of doctors, teachers, cultural workers, scientists goes up by 10.5%, and that's on the condition that it's about raising wages by September 1. From September 1 to the end of the following year, prices will rise by at least 13 percent. This means that not only will wages not match GDP growth, but there will be simply a reduction in the real wages of our citizens. Third moment. Is it possible to accept the suggestions for barter upon return of deposits? Of course not. So "Our Ukraine" insists that the budget be redesigned by the government, which takes into account the new minimum wage of 300 dollars with the renewal of inter-employment salaries, because that gives the resources to increase pensions and differentiate pensions. Second, to take into account the new living minimum. Thirdly, the whole return on investments is purely in monetary form, and our Ukraine will be the first faction to support such a socially oriented budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u306	Thank you. The word is Konovaluk, the faction of "Ukraine". He'll be followed by the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u307	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, reverend Mikolo Janovich, members of the government, distinguished radio listeners. Unfortunately, I don't have 20 minutes of co-reporting, but I'd like to express a few of the advantages that are actually in the State Budget project. The first thing that becomes obvious when you get to know the project is that today's rapid economic growth is leading to the filling of the budget, and certainly this filling is the result of an effective and consistent government activity, a balanced and well-founded economic policy, an activity programme. The other one. Today we are presented with an unprecedented budget for the new Ukrainian history. Now, in practice, and not just in words, there will be a process of implementing constitutional norms on the social nature of our state policy. The amount of social spending proposed for the following year will allow progress to be made in overcoming poverty in Ukraine, which has long been on the agenda. So we can talk about the quality of the new level of social policy in Ukraine, which starts with the planned introduction of a minimum wage of 262 dollars. Also, the budget actually found expenses that had not been used in previous years. It's free school feeding in the first and fourth classes, and it's complementary to teaching staff in both general and preschool schools. Taking professional organizations into account for cultural, physical and health work. Supplement for senior staff of museums and libraries Involvement of students and students in Ukraine, payment of cash assistance in retirement for science and teaching staff. Providing one-time care to orphans and children deprived of parental care. I think that's what the government is proposing not only to improve the social situation, but also to pursue a truly socially balanced social policy. Third. There is a need to determine the possibility of a breakthrough in the State's obligation to reduce citizens' monetary savings in the USSR Savings facility. The proposed new mechanism to address this ancient problem allows for positive movements across the entire system of debt repayment and debt management in the state. Four. I'm drawing attention to, well, 1.6 times, the increase in agrarian spending, which is very important for the development of our nation as a whole. The settlement of the village problem, the promotion of agro-industrial production is one of the priorities of public policy, has also been reflected in the budget presented. And the last. Once again, the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovich is fulfilling not only his commitments but also his confidence in tomorrow. And the 2005 budget project is in this as a constant confirmation. We urge everyone not to politicize this issue, but to take it up and work on the draft budget as provided for in the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u308	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that we will finish without interruption. Part of the people’s deputies insist on a break. Then the break is announced for 30 minutes — up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your jobs, and more importantly, they are more comfortable than before, and we will continue our meetings. Yes, the word from the faction of the block of Timoshenko has Alexander Turchinov. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u310	Dear colleagues! The government told us today that their main achievement is to increase the nominal revenues of the budget to 110.4 billion dollars. Indeed, when you look at the figures, the increase is up to 33.7 percent compared to 2004. And what's interesting is, your honorary colleagues, there's going to be a 27 percent increase in the general fund and 57 percent increase in the special fund, and I'm going to say 57 percent. This means that the record money confirms the continuation of government policies to turn ministries and branches into economic structures that themselves collect and eat what they collect. What's interesting is, if we keep this trend going, our government is going to become a completely closed-circuit stock company, where shares belong to the three leading Ukrainian clans. I want to ask you, honourable national MPs, the question: what resources does the government plan to increase the income portion of the budget? I'm looking at their proposals. Especially 11.6 billion plus the value added tax. This is while the VAT crisis remains in Ukraine. The government was unable to implement a program to deal with this crisis. Billions remain the government’s debt to the companies that overpaid the tax. GDP is rising, according to the same government, by all percentages. But what kind of money are they going to increase their income? I'll give you the answer: purely because of inflation. And even today, whoever buys food in Kiev’s markets and other regions can confirm what I have said. For some food products, prices have doubled since the beginning of the year and more than the government’s main resource. And when the government strategy is implemented, Ukraine can end up at a time when the budget was 100 percent in one month, the government can reject Ukraine at the beginning of the 1990s. This could just be an economic disaster for our nation. Next. With this virtual increase in the budget, only 0.1 percent of the government plans to increase the local budget. With regard to the pension bluff, 10 billion budget deficits have already been reported in this article alone. So it's not an increase in pensions, it's a one-time bribe that the government wants to give to our pensioners before the vote. Our faction suggests that this budget be rejected and returned to the government for further development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u311	The word is from the National Deputy Demökhin, the faction of "The One Ukraine". Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u312	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to make it clear that the one-Ukrainian MP is impressed by the state budget's presented draft. And this sympathy is based not just on a positive attitude towards the Cabinet of Ministers, but on the actual budget proposals for 2005. We're looking at a draft of the country's main financial document, based on the prism of the tasks that our faction and the "One Ukraine" are facing. And it should be noted that in many ways the government has managed to take into account the proposals of our faction in the State Budget project. They cannot help but impress the country's economic growth rate, the constant growth in GDP, income and expenditure of the State budget. All of this should guarantee the welfare of every Ukrainian citizen. What would you like to draw attention to from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Unfortunately, you and I are already discussing the draft law on the State Budget, and the draft law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme is only for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Now one example shows that the Cabinet of Ministers did not have an understanding of the situation that the program should be the primary one. The state budget should become one of the tools used to perform tasks. Of course, these two documents should be mutually agreed upon. Sadly, the present state of affairs in this area is far from ideal. For example. At the same time as one of the public policy priorities for the next year, investment and promotion of innovation infrastructure has been increased, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to introduce a moratorium on new investment and innovation projects. Next. Regardless of the actual social orientation of the budget presented, I would like to determine whether there is a significant imbalance in certain issues. Yes, with a total budget increase of about 30 percent, the minimum cost of living is proposed to increase by only 5.5 percent. The "One Ukraine" faction suggests that the Cabinet of Ministers review its point of view from a given point of view. In our view, the budget should include air, aircraft, shipbuilding, automobile, and agriculture. machine building should become a priority. The same row should include the development of growth in the southern areas of Ukraine, which will serve as a guarantee of Ukraine’s food security. The One Ukraine faction supports the adoption of the proposed State Budget, taking into account our observations and proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u313	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Noshchenko will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u314	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The 2005 evaluation of the Ukrainian State Budget project would like to start with a rhetorical question. Dear colleagues! Given how today the government, a presidential candidate from the power of power, uses the budget as its own electoral fund, we may not accept the budget at all, so as not to interfere with the use of the budget as pocket money. At the adoption of the 2004 budget, some of the deputies, such as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, called the sums of the hidden revenues of the budget. Someone had doubts about the truthfulness of this information. But the government itself, the government itself, has absolutely confirmed this by its practical actions. As for the 2005 state budget project. Yeah, really, this budget is a little bit larger, or maybe you could say, and it's much larger. But for me, at least a little bit bigger or much bigger doesn't mean much better. A few specific things. First. The project does not provide for the full amount, at least, of pension payments as large as they are imposed by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to point out that every month it takes at least one billion dollars to calculate a year is 12 to 14 billion. And the increase in funding under this article is 2.5 billion. Besides, I'm asking the members of the government not to speculate on the subject of a minimum pension. Nobody's got a minimum pension, it's not about the size of a pension. The allowance entered to the minimum of living, it's true. But such a payment of his time, at least in the Dnipropetrov region, was introduced by Paul Lazarus, but it melted as soon as the elections ended. The second point I'd like to highlight. The draft contains article 83, which contains a list on the four pages of laws, articles of laws that are stopped by the State Budget Act. Once again, we are approaching the same rakes, including few social articles. Third point. The project provides for some increase in payments to veterans of the Great Homeland War in different categories by May 9th -- that's true. That's really true. But even after payment on an increased scale, this payment is only a third of what is stipulated by the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. Once again, a war veteran is thrown out of these payouts. Sorry, at least in the year of the sixties, we have to let them know that they are also involved in this great victory. And in fact, I think that funding for the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection should be highlighted in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u315	Thank you. The word is given by the national MP Noshenko Mikola Petrovich, the "Trudova Ukraine" faction. He'll be followed by Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u316	Your Honor! Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 169th constituency, Trudova Ukraine faction. Dear Chairman! Dear Mikola Janovich! The Hard Ukraine faction has insisted and insists on the 2005 budget review in the budget lines defined by the Budget Code. Ladies and gentlemen, we are part of, indeed, the main part of the budgetary process, but we must not forget that in this process more than 800 city budgets, district budgets and thousands of budgetary institutions are also making up their budgets. From the faction initiative, we were able to fix something. In the re-establishment of the 2004 budget, proposals have already been made here, and this is in the budget. For example, the hot diet of children in the 1st and 4th classes is an extra 1 billion in the budget. Our faction insisted on improving the well - being of the populace and the gasification, and this year 800 million are for gasification not only to the villages but also to the villages. At the same time, we also made proposals and made some improvements in the cost of living. Now it has to be said that first, the first is 6 billion in damages to the State's obligation to reduce monetary obligations, and then 700 million in debt to those who do not have housing and utility payments, that's how we want to do more, but let's take the first step, and the next year we're going to pay in cash. Consider the two previous budgets, and there were a number of changes to the tax codes that burdened the operators. This budget is not formulated by increasing the fiscal burden on taxpayers. Suggestions: We are expected to pay off the debt on the payroll of agribusiness operators, and this year we are forecasting yesterday’s expenses on the budget committee, but what about the cases of court decisions made when the state made the commitment and the subject was eliminated or had nothing to pay, the question needs to be anticipated and settled. Second, when we observe the well - being of our population, we also need to talk about what is going on and what is going on. Today, I want to say one thing: fuel costs, solid fuel costs, household fuel goes up every quarter of the fuel price, so there's a proposal to provide for the chief supervisor the cost of a moratorium on the cost of living for the population and socio-cultural objects, as well as for wood. If they cost 6 or 8 dollars, about 2 or 3 months the price became 40 dollars, that should be taken into account. And the most important proposal that I want to make public is that the Labour faction of Ukraine supports the government and proposes to accept the budget for consideration and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u317	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. From the faction of the Union, the People's Deputy Nadrag has the word. Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u318	Dear colleagues, the Union's MP is in favour of the proposed budget. We believe that there are a number of positive points that are fundamental. However, in preparation and consideration, including meeting with the Ministry of Finance specialists, we have raised several issues that we believe need to be further developed if we are to say that the budget should be positive in its final edition. First. At present, there is a misunderstanding and, in general, a natural desire to come to the truth, this is a question of unduly exaggerated projections of own and well-established revenues to local budgets. I can bring you as one of the elements of this. For example, in the Luhansk region where I was elected, the 2004 base has so far benefited from the resources that have been made available to local budgets in connection with the payment of salaries. As you know, the coal industry has been running out of momentum for the past few years, but the question is that there will be no income from local budgets for a great deal of regret in the coming year. For example, in the Luhansk region, projections indicate that the figure is not less than a hundred million and, to be precise, 118 million are unreachable or possibly unreachable to the consolidated budgets in the area. Next moment. To date, when we are talking about the increase in local budget expenditure, which is taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers, is not adequate for the increase of the Labour Fund to budget workers and does not provide the necessary appropriations, it is also possible to speak the language of numbers, but the problem is as follows. To date, the legal basis is not only the minimum wage, but also the Supreme Council Act of 10.09 this year, which does not take into account the concept of local, minimum wages for all benefits and benefits for the worker. This raises the question: once again, we are pushing local budgets in a state where they will be available for salaries, for priority payments, and, unfortunately, there will be nothing for what we have talked about in schools, for health care and for what the local budget should do as part of the State responsible to its population. Well, that's the last one. It is thought that, in all the discussions that we need to transform and make budgets more mobile, there is probably no point for us to adopt article 23 to date in the part where, in agreement with Minfin, local budgets are allowed to finance public programmes. That is to say, we will therefore be responsible for the local budgets for the finances and for what the State budget should be responsible for. You can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u319	Thank you. From the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich has the floor. And we're going to move on to committee presentations. Matvienkov is a prompolitics.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u320	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear Mikolo Yanovich, colleague! This is what they say in the multitude, especially in the country: that which thou sowest, thou shalt reap. Of course, the consideration of today's agrarian issue is very important, as we are moving into a new phase -- support for the agro-industry complex -- what's more, we're saying at all levels, not just agrarians, peasants, that 2005 is desirable to be, and we would like it to be a rural, rural one. [[That's what I want!]] I'll tell you immediately, Mikolo Janovich, that we will support the proposal to introduce this budget into the Supreme Council so that it can be processed before the first reading - October 20. But I would like to highlight today the shortcomings that we see in this 2005 budget, despite the fact that a number of meetings have been held, a meeting, including a meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council, where we were representatives of the executive structures and it has been agreed that we are clearly implementing a budget resolution concerning an agro-industrial complex -- 10 percent of the village allocation from the general budget. We've calculated on the average that it's going to be about 9.2 billion. That's right. We agreed at this meeting and at meetings of 7.4 billion. The bracelet goes straight to the village and to higher rural education. Yet, what do we see today? 7.4 billion. What are they made of? Well, first of all, 800 million dollars is allocated to the gasification of the village. It would seem to be a very nice figure, but if we take a closer look, this question is suggested to be resolved when the debt for gas transit is repaid. Is it really possible to do this? Very doubtful. Eight million dollars in debt for the technology that was implemented in our country back in 1996. That's an unrealistic figure. 1.2 billion — expenses for the Pension Fund, or fixed agricultural tax. Again, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy does not have this structure, and in principle, this money will not be collected. Nor do we follow the real figure of single percent of the gross domestic product in the social sphere, which is 2.1 billion dollars. So we would ask, Mikola Janović, to review this attitude today towards the agro-industry complex, I think we'll find a common language with you today because we say that we support each other, but 9, 2 billion and 7.4 are our output numbers, and we'll stand on them. So I would like the government and I to find that common language. Once again, we support and vote on the introduction of the budget to the Supreme Council today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u321	Thank you. The word has the national deputy of Matvienkov, a committee of industrial politics. Tomenko will come after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u322	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! You know, frankly, I'd rather not be looking at a budget, such an important document, from a political point of view. Therefore, I will try to reject all political passions and somehow objectively evaluate this document. Can't, and I don't think any of the deputies are going to do this program. This is a third increase compared to this year's income, which is 110 billion dollars of griven, which is a 2.4 billion griven reduction compared to this year's government budget deficit, but above all, this is the social focus of the budget. For the first time in many years, almost 55 per cent of the budget is proposed for social expenditure. Can it not meet the increase in the minimum wage from 1 January to 262 bracelets, an increase of almost 2.5 times for students with the possibility of free leisure, meals for students in the first and fourth grades, and pensions increased to a subsistence minimum? It is proposed that costs be doubled. The costs of science, health care, education, of course, cannot be positive. Provision is made in the 2005 budget and six and a half billion greaves for the reimbursement of mutilated contributions from the population. After the scheme that Ivan Ivanovich and I had proposed in that convening, the Government eventually took the mechanism into its arms. That's very positive. 690 million bracelets for compensation for unpaid allowances to teachers. All of this, of course, is and is, of course, real. Any budget can be measured realistically, of course, by its implementation, but what is set here is already, so to speak, objective, normal numbers, and we cannot fail to agree to that date. But I understand the positive points, and it will depend on how the Government can provide the income, how the budget can be filled, how it can reap the shadow structures that will work and go around, so to speak, past the execution. It's nice to say that VAT is already being eliminated for scrap exports. This is already a positive moment, and it will play a positive role. Nevertheless, there are some points that need to be discussed today and that need to be addressed. First of all, this needs to be addressed by the local budgeting mechanism. After considering the 2005 draft budget for Ukraine at the city level, in particular cities such as the industrial city of Mariupol, it can be noted that in calculating the income of the first basket according to the 276 million formula, but the income of the first basket was brought by the Cabinet of Ministers -- 280 million -- that is, 3.9 million bracelets were not confirmed by formal calculations. Real incomes of 28.2 million were not achieved. Mariupol's real income is 251 million, not 280 million, as calculated by the Cabinet of Ministers. How, then, can social programs be implemented, both food for children and the normal things that are set out in this part of the budget? Therefore, the costs incurred by the Cabinet of Ministers only provide for the payment of salaries with fees and partial payment of energy carriers. I therefore believe that this mechanism needs to be taken into account, and that is what we need to correct for the second reading in order to get this moment divorced. And I want to stop in the absence of time for just one moment. Methods of calculating salaries by teacher, by school. Donetsk Region: four schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u323	Thank you. The Freedom of Speech Committee gives the floor to the national MP Tomenko. Prepare Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u324	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear radio listeners! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the tragedy of this budget is that it wasn't prepared for citizens. He was preparing for the electorate. The tragedy of this budget is that it was not prepared for 2005, it was prepared for a period of electoral campaign. And what's even more tragic is that he was preparing for the head of the National Bank, who is the head of the election headquarters of Viktor Yanukovic. And when today, the head of the electoral headquarters and the National Bank's complicity tells us that we don't have to go either to the exchange points or not to the money units at all, it causes serious concern before the budget is approved. And when colleagues talk about numbers and inflation problems, I think that's what Sergey Tihypka says they're forcing us to be alert. Just as we are compelled to guard against the position of the government that has been hiding money in the budget during the last period, and now finds a sharp find. Perhaps some treasure was found by the government, for earlier he had said that there was no money in principle, and in September and October they appeared. In general, it would be right to listen to the budget report first, to see how education, science, the army was financed. Yesterday, Eugene Marchuk, along with you, learned from the press that he had been removed from his post as Secretary of Defense. I've never regretted Marcus from this rostrum, but it's a classic cynicism of this authority -- not to inform the minister who will report to our session hall that he's already been filmed! And when the minister says he's been given a penny to the army, and now he's being made extreme by the fact that the army has collapsed. Yes, in every field! And when the pensioners are experimenting with the government today, and they're telling them that you and I are now going to experiment in September and see if you're able to change your ideological position, your attitude towards power for 184 bracelets. And it can enter the history of the world, or people change the ideology, the position, the attitude of value. Well, you can't bully people like that even when it's happening during the presidential election campaign! You can't turn the reserve fund into a gift fund for Janukovitch, because it's for naturals and stuff, not for Yanukovich's gifts. And to conclude, Ukraine's tragedy is not that the Prime Minister has two criminal convictions, the tragedy of Ukraine is that it is an illiterate man. And when they say he doesn't speak English fluently, that's not true. He doesn't speak Ukrainian or Russian, because he wrote both Ukrainian and Russian as "premier" and "professor" with two mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u325	The word is given to the national deputy of Matthew, the Committee of State Building.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u326	Thank you. It may not be worth denying the bold steps taken in the 2005 draft budget, but it is obvious that these bold steps and, of course, they are most likely dictated by all the choices that we are all waiting for. Why do I have the right to say this? Because when we examine the same government under the 2004 budget, we see that the government did not have the strength to do so in 2004, and more than that, there was a force to hide the budget, and today this is being used, unfortunately, in terms of populism, including pensions. That is why there is no confidence in today’s cabinet, including, apparently, the 2005 budget, which is why there is doubt. In fact, only local budgets will be affected. Although there has been an increase in local budget expenditure, we will be honest about it, the increase in wages and energy. The wage remains large and accounts for more than 77 percent. At the same time, the structure of local economic classification budgets is deteriorating. Local budgets remain issues of pay, not development. A particular concern is the communal economy. I'm glad you found 6 billion. But in what way? We will repay those who are in debt today. Mikolo Janovich, who came up with this formula? This is what we've been promoting right now is an increase in municipal debt. 130 billion to be paid and 6 billion to be compensated. It doesn't help, it just destroys the utilities. Obviously, we need to be stimulated in a different way. What about work for those who don't pay today or who don't live in utility apartments? How can they return these deposits? Obviously. We need to change philosophy. In relation to local militia, part of the local budgets are falling. And it doesn't make up, Mikola Janovich, 43 percent that you've announced here from this rostrum. But another 40.8 percent. The same with the special fund 34.2 against 36.3 in the 2004 budget. This is a very disturbing trend. Why, Mikolo Janović, the government's decision to implement the Ukrainian Law on Budgeting of Rurals, Villages and District Cities has not been adopted to date. It's all going to manual mode. The corrosion of the Budget Code continues, and the corrosion of laws that today protect local budgets continues. There are many other problems in the earth, one billion do not stumble, and the benefits are not covered again, and local budgets are lost. Obviously, with such approaches we can't, so we can't welcome this budget and obviously it can only be accepted after the protection of local self-government and the link is taken into account, not a declaration, but a real reinforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u327	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion has run out with you. But we have two more draft decrees to reject the 2005 State Budget project. According to the Budget Code, we are presented to the State Budget, the Supreme Council may decide to reject and send it back to the Cabinet of Ministers. So now I'm going to give three minutes to submit my draft regulations on the rejection of the State Budget Bill for the next year to the authors of these projects. Please, National Deputy Assadchev. Three minutes, he'll be followed by Teryochin, or Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u328	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear friends, this budget can be talked about very much, really here is the complete inappropriateness of macroindicators and inflation issues, and the growth of gross product, actually destroyed local budgets, because once the police sit on their funding, you'll see that nothing will happen for development. But my decision concerns, I think, the problem number one that everyone here has talked about today is the issue of retirement. Let's still take this more seriously. What did the government offer in its decisions? I, by the way, want to pay attention to the determination they agreed on. It says here, "the principal distribution of revenue." In general, in the government, everything is real, GDP is real, and the distribution of revenue is real. The actual amount of privatization comes from, and it's all a matter of course, but in order for the pension to pay off every month's national address aid. These aren't pensions, my friends. What is address aid? The address aid is the person who lives at the address of Donetskeya Street gets it, and the person who lives at Poltavska Street doesn't get it at all. So it's all going to be looked at through the prism of the giver and the giver. The Pension Insurance Act that we passed with you, and we only recently passed it, we're already starting to destroy it. He makes it clear that only pension legislation determines all pension payments, so our requirement is that we make pension changes by amending the 2004 budget. And only as a pension. It's got to be an extra pension. In the following year, we have to pay this extra pension in full from the cost of living, and then we have to restore the ratio, because we're actually going to bring everything to the balance sheet. This takes up to 10 billion dollars. Dear friends, we don't regulate this imbalance by ourselves in the Supreme Council. There's no money in the Pension Fund today. This was announced yesterday by the head of the Pension Fund. And that's why it's not possible to look at the budget with this imbalance. My determination, therefore, is to prevent millions of Ukrainian pensioners from being deceived as a result of this project from rejecting and obliging the government to provide for a pension equivalent to a subsistence minimum at the 2005 Pension Fund. And this year, it's not the goal of any extra payments, it's the extra pensions that our pensioners have to pay. Thank you for your attention. And please support the draft of my ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u329	Another draft decision on the rejection of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2005 is presented by Pinzenik. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u330	Honorable National MPs. Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block. We talked about the motivational part of our proposal -- to give a week's break to the Cabinet of Ministers to correct the serious disadvantages it has put into the State Budget project next year. What are we talking about? The budget should provide for the full amount of funding needed to increase pensions for retirees, so that not only during the elections, they will receive the supplement, but they will receive an increased pension at all times. So these are the proposals that contain the decision on deviation and direction for a week's work-up period. To this end, the faction proposes to set from January 1st the minimum wage of 300 dollars to restore inter-employment ratios in the salaries of budget workers. That's 26 percent of the wage increase, that's within the revenue increase of the budget. Let me remind you that the revenue of the budget is increasing by 34 percent. In addition, such an increase gives the same resource to the Pension Fund as is necessary for a real one, not for a declaratory increase in pensions. In addition, this makes it possible to differentiate the amount of pension increases depending on the length of the job, the size of the salary. We demand that the requirements of the Budget Code be met for the full implementation of Article 57 of the Education Act, for the provision of adequate funds in local budgets for the full implementation of rules on the introduction of new minimum wage levels, for the payment of lost savings of $6.5 billion. The currency is purely in monetary form, the setting of a living minimum of 423 bracelets, that is, at a level that takes into account not only inflation, but also part of economic growth. We want to draw attention to one more thing: contrary to the rules of the budget resolution that proposed amending the rules of tax legislation to the adoption of the budget, this budget is again making a revision of tax legislation. I want to remind you that you remember how many problems there have been in small businesses, agrarians. By the way, for the agricultural sector, the budget project introduces an additional tax into the Pension Fund of 30 percent of the standard rate. For those who pay the simplified tax, an additional tax is proposed to the Pension Fund of 50 percent of the basic rate. In this regard, the faction proposes to reject the project, giving a week according to the Government’s Budget Code for Work. And if such social parameters are supported in the budget, we are willing to vote in favour of the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u331	Yes, dear colleagues, we have also heard two draft budget rejection decrees. Now we're going to go with you to make a decision. But before that, I will ask the reporters, Valery Pavlovich! Dear colleagues, there's a faction of one, indeed, it's not written down, but it insists very much on the performance. Please turn on the Desert Mike. From the rostrum, please, come on. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u332	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! I'm sorry, they said the faction didn't sign up, that's not entirely true, because I went to the rostrum myself and asked for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u333	Valery Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. The rostrum doesn't record. We're not your secretaries. There's a secretary who's writing it down. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u334	Yes, I'd like to ask you not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u335	Turn the microphone off from the rostrum. Valeriy Pavlovich, I repeat, and I remind you, you are a very respectable man, but the Presidium is not a technical secretary, not even in former prime ministers. There's a secretariat that does that. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u336	Can I talk to you for a second? Okay, thank you. I listened carefully to the speeches, and whoever represents the budget of Mikli Janović and representatives of the MPs and factions, I want to say that yesterday the Coordinating Board of the Political Parties Block, which supports Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, held its appropriate meeting, where we discussed the budget, the issue of the holding and the raising of pensions, as stated on the coordination board, is the increase in pensions, whether it's an adventure. I mean, I'm happy with what processes are going on in the economy. I can tell you from this rostrum, I wouldn't want to interrupt! - that the government I led has set up a system to repay the debt to the budgetary organizations and has fulfilled its obligations. He created a pension payment system that was paid, paid in 1998 for 1.8 months, 12.8 months in 1999. I'm responsible for my words, for my numbers. And they paid off Victor Yushchenk's government. It is the new government today, indeed it is, that today’s government has taken the next steps. There has been an increase in the budget in the next year's budget by 28 percent tail, an increase in wages in our Ukraine, across Ukraine by 11.8 billion dollars. From there, the pension fund has increased by 5.8 billion dollars. And today there is an opportunity to pay our pensioners in an additional way. In Ukraine today, 13.8 million pensioners, 11.4 of whom receive a supplement, including teachers, doctors, and, above all, villagers. Every farmer actually gets an extra hundred dollars per month of retirement today, and it's starting to pay off. So I want to say that the budget is absolutely real. And making sure that we are included in the Pension Insurance Act. And the step that is being taken today is already a reserve at the Pension Fund for at least half a year's pension. So I propose that the faction of the People's Democratic Party not take a decision on rejection and adopt a budget for further consideration, and that it be approved, and whether the presidential election is held or not. So we don't have to worry about our military personnel? They should know that we will have solved all the social guarantees in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and for your apology to the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u337	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, I ask Mikola Janović Azarov, three minutes to sum it up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u338	I am grateful to all the people's deputies who have expressed constructive criticism. And, of course, the draft law is before you. This means that the Government is ready to work constructively with all the factions of Parliament. But there are a few moments that I have to stop at. Well, there have been comments that can't be taken without a smile. I want to tell our TV and radio listeners that the pensioners on the street and the street of the Donnelly, and on the street of Poltava, and on the street of Ivano-Frankovsky and Lvivsky, all pensioners will receive a supplement, which is respected by Valery Assadchev. I would now like the speakers to be in line with the figures and to be in line with the laws. When it's said that we put in some extra taxes in the country, let them open an article. So powderenko said that 20 percent of the extra taxes are taxed, there's VAT, for example, so I want to say that it's not that all the debit balances remain on the accounts, first, the interest rate is 10 percent, secondly, the debit balance stays on the accounts of agriculture enterprises. So let's just tell the truth. Now a few more words about the truth, the historical truth. Indeed, pensions were increased in 2000. The decision took place on 1 December 2000, and the pension was increased. The minimum pension was raised by 5 bracelets of 10 copies. The average pension was 84 bracelets in 2000, and the Government had already raised the average from 185 to 311 this year. That's not five bucks for you, Your Honor. So let us tell the people, our listeners the truth! Now, a few words about that, and what's the level of our neighbors' pensions? Let's transfer it to a commonly accepted currency for calculation, conditional units, so-called. Russia, minimum pension - $22, Belarus - $29, Kazakhstan - $40. Pensions now remain in Ukraine. At $53. And now one more question is about prices. I once again appeal to the people's deputies to objectivity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u339	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u340	I would like to say that more contributions to destabilization are made by some speakers, and it is hard to imagine. See what they say in our country: “Retireees, do not believe, your pension is granted only on election day.” What moral right do you have to say about this? All payments are fixed on a permanent basis and will be implemented this year and next year. The necessary funds are budgeted. Now. When it comes to price increases, it's Yanukovic's fault. Please tell me that Yanukovic is undermining the pipelines in Iraq, that Yanukovic is influencing the price formation of the international exchange in New York? This year oil price rose from $23 to $47 per barrel, that's 2.5 times. The Government of Janukovic is doing everything to stabilize prices, including for petroleum products. So all we have to do is tell the truth one more time. Moreover, when Tomenko speaks and says that the budget makes Tigypto, he is either illiterate or knowingly misleading our deputies. What does Tigypto have to do with budgeting? This is where the government sits. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! One wise man, I quote from memory, said that State wisdom is not to make perfect decisions, there is no perfect decision in nature, because perfect decisions are made by a man, but it is his inherent mistake that State wisdom is to make public decisions with minimal errors. That is why we are not making the perfect decisions, we are making those decisions that can be criticized, but that is why there is a Parliament. Let's move our conversation to a constructive path. And let's be a budget just as required by the Budget System Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u341	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Have a seat. Please. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Put your hands down. Because you're gonna have to push the buttons. You don't need a replica! You don't need a replica! For reasons of vote, please write down three minutes. Yes, please show me on the screens. Tomenko's behind him, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u342	Dear colleagues, since I can still say it to the line. Mikola Janovich, I would advise you never to speak the word "illiteracy" because you are in line with current legislation as a civil servant, you have to use the word "illiteracy" and "illiteracy" long ago to forget and speak here in the state session hall. Not Belarusian. And now for Tihypak. Tihypically, as the head of the electoral headquarters, is constantly speaking and commenting on why the National Bank is operating or not. Why does Ukraine’s financial policy take place in such a way? He not only advertises bills but also pursues the country’s financial policy. And he's on vacation, but he's responsible for the National Bank, including. And when he says whether we should go to the bank or change or not, he has a direct impact on economic and financial policy and he has to be responsible not only for the election company Yanukovic, but also for how the budget of Ukraine is formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u343	Please. Coloniari Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u344	Colonyari, 56th District. The city of Mariupol. I'm asking you to give the floor to my colleague Valery Konovaluk. Konovaluku! Konovaluku!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u345	Please, Konovaluku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u346	Konovaluk. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we really had the impression with you today that the position of deputies is firm in the budget assessment. I think we're showing not as much as we want to be constructive, to improve the indicators and really look at the budget as it's supposed to be. Because the Committee on Budgets has approved and we have decided to support the budget and consider it. I'd like to say that there are those who don't like this situation, who don't like stability and economic development, who don't like solving major social problems. So let's not forget that presidential elections are elections, and the budget has to be for the state to be ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u347	Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u348	Commie faction, Rodionov. Dear Nikolai Janović, you have not answered my colleague, Loboda, the question of why the Government has not decided to allocate 75 million from the State budget to investment projects to local budgets so far, so to speak, it goes to MPs, to reds, to blacks, to those who can be allocated and to those who cannot be allocated. How is that going to work out? This also depends on budget support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u349	Yes. Exchange of thoughts, Your Honor, we will now vote with you on two rulings, two draft regulations, two draft regulations. This is about the 2005 budget, not the 2004 budget. Once again, dear colleagues. In accordance with the Budget Code, the Supreme Council, following the submission of the draft State Budget Act for the following year, may decide to reject it and to refer it to the Cabinet of Ministers. Two national deputies, namely three national deputies, took advantage of this norm and made appropriate draft regulations. In order of submission, their representation I will put them to the vote. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject Ukraine’s draft State Budget Act 2005 is put to the vote. Registration number 6000-p. The author is National Deputy Assadchev. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:07]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions. I'll read it now. "Our Ukraine" is 97. I'm reading a positive vote that only works in favour. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0; Communists -54; Social Democrats, and "Trust Ukraine", National Agrarian Party - 0; Socialist - 18; Tymoshenko - 18, "Soyuz" - 1, "One Ukraine" - 0; NDP, Industrial and Business Party - 0; "Centre" - 12; Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 0; Postfaction - 6. They don't make a decision. I am voting on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005. The registration number of this bill is 6,000-p1. The drafters of the bill are People’s Deputies Pinzenik and Terjehochin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:25:37]] For 209 The factions, please. The decision is not taken. "Our Ukraine" -- published a hundred, "Ukraine" -- 0, Communist -- 54, Social Democratic Party, "Urban Ukraine", the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine -- zero. [[united]] The Socialist Party is 17, Timoshenko Block is 19, The Union, The One Ukraine, the NDP, the industrialists, the entrepreneurs are zero, the Center is 12, Democratic Initiatives. People's power is 0, non-fractional is 7. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the consideration of the issue -- the submission of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2005 -- has been completed. According to our consideration, the budget remains with the Supreme Council. And I'm asking the Committee on Budget Affairs to work according to our planned schedule. [[Applause]] And for all the people's deputies, I want to inform you, for all the people's deputies, because this document by the Head of the Supreme Council has directed only to the committees and factions that the Budget Committee has drawn up a timetable for the State Budget, which meets the legislative standards that we are guided by. And that's how we're going to look at it. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! If you don't mind, you know that we always hear about the appointment and release of judges on Thursdays. We have now stretched this time slightly by almost an hour in view of the fact that we cannot interrupt the previous question, and we have a number of organizational issues ahead of us. So if it's your will and you don't deny it, let's now consider the appointment and release of judges, and then we'll work in the same order that we have today. Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u350	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's constituency. I'd like to pay your attention, but I didn't understand how we voted. Article 41 of the Budget Code, I remind you, says that the first reading of the draft starts with the head of the budget committee, the head of the budget committee on conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act. They're in the middle of a discussion. And so on. Then the conclusions and proposals are voted on as a whole. Adam Ivanovich and I did not vote. And to draw conclusions, and to talk about representation as a separate stage, and not as a stage of first reading, I think, would be wrong. This does not stem from the Ukrainian budget code. And, Adam Ivanovich, me. No one said anything about financing the judiciary. The judiciary is completely bypassed by nearly half, funded by only 46 percent. And it's consciously that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u351	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm surprised, Yuri Anatoliyovich, that a specialist like you had a little bit of a mix-up between budget submission and first-reading. You and I have discussed the issue of budget presentation today. This is when the first reading will be done, and you will be right to talk about what decisions should be made. We acted in harmony with article 2.3. 1 Ukraine’s Budget Code in clear harmony with this. Yes, then, with your consent, Your Honor, we listen to the question, we consider the draft ruling on the selection of judges, the registration number. Release at the beginning? Yes, the committee proposes to release first, although it would be more logical to assign. Well, let's listen to the committee. The draft decrees for the release of judges are registration numbers 6154 and 6155. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovitch. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u352	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Fellow dignitaries, the committee reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice for the dismissal of the judge of the John’s District Court of Odessa District of Foreign Victor Georgiyovich in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. I would like to emphasize that the High Council of Justice has considered the candidate for the Foreign Minister, Viktor Georgievovich, and has decided to release him. But order is such that it is put through the committee for consideration by the Supreme Council. The committee reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice and did not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release the Foreign Judge. There are certain circumstances. I think maybe if there's any questions for me, I'll tell you. But I did report the position of the committee. So you're looking at a draft release order, but the committee's position is not to be dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u353	Thank you. There's a question. Please sign in. Please light up on the board. Three minutes. St. St. John's. Behind him, Sirenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u354	Stretovic, Christian-Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Vasil Vasilovich, everyone knows about the state of justice today in Ukraine. It is not clear why only two judges in the six - thousandth army of judges today are released under circumstances in connection with their failure to keep their oaths. Why do so little percentage of the law's prophylaxis function, I call it the theory, why don't the Higher Council of Justice, other bodies, why don't we clean up in the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u355	We consider the application of the High Council of Justice as a committee. And we bring those materials to the committee to the Supreme Council. Regarding the state of justice in Ukraine, it is now anticipated that a draft ruling prepared by the Committee on Legal Policy should be considered on 8 December of this year in sessions of the Supreme Council and that the reasons for ineffective justice, subjective conditions, are objective, because you have really stressed that the courts today are underfunded, that one third of the premises are not suitable for justice, that is, there are many reasons why the courts are not working as well as we would like them to and society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u356	Please, Sirenko, follow him Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u357	Sirenko, the Communist faction. Vasil Vasilovich, when you report the dismissal of the judges, I ask you to tell the real story in at least 3-10 words for which this judge is being released, who is being challenged, because the hall doesn't know, only knows the committee's decision. Tell the real story, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u358	Thank you, Vasil Fedorovich. The point is that the Foreigner, when dealing with one of the cases concerning the Oilynik, made a decision regarding his arrest. We've been discussing this issue on the committee's arrest decision, and Olinick was a bum, and he came out that he couldn't be punished with a fine or a correctional job, because he didn't work and he didn't have a salary to pay for any more. That's why Olionik was arrested. In doing so, the judge did not clearly indicate the circumstances under which he committed the wrongdoing and the location of the incident. This was the reason why, as the High Council of Justice and the Qualified Commission felt, his judge could be punished for this. The following situation was related to events on August 23, last year in the territory of the Russian Tatarbunar district of Odessa and, according to a decision of the Qualifying Commission and of the High Council of Justice, the Foreigner himself and his wife, allegedly on the weekend, did not wage a fight on the market. At the same time, the district newspaper wrote down this fact. When we discussed the matter on the committee, we were given a ruling by the Court of Tatars on the grounds that since 24 November 2003, where it was established that these parties, who the judge had argued with or fought, had no quarrel, had no crime scene and there was no incident. It's one way or another, but there's a court decision, it's not overturned. Therefore, the committee was of the position that once the court’s decision came into effect, there was no fact of the matter. We've made a legal assessment. And as soon as there's an evaluation of the hall, the national MPs, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u359	I've already announced Calinchuk. Please, Kalinczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u360	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Vassil Vasilovich, I can't quite agree with you that you said that there was no court decision, but that the criminal case was violated for minority, and the fact was confirmed, and the district newspaper wrote about it, and it elicited a resonance. So I don't know what the members of the committee came out of when they didn't support both the High Council of Justice and the Qualification Commission. I'd like to ask the honourable national MPs to support the decision of the High Court of Justice's Qualifying Commission on this court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u361	Vassil Antonovich, indeed, was determined by the investigating authorities to close the case for minority, that is, the fact of the fight itself, but since this case is of a private nature, the victims had just been brought to justice. And when the court considered this particular decision, he admitted that there was no such fact. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u362	Thank you, Your Honor. The question has been discussed. Is there a judge present whom we are considering? Is it? Do you have anything to say? Then please go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u363	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that all these facts are premeditated. This is the former head of the district court, well, that's how he keeps accounts with me. He didn’t want me to be elected head of the district court, so he made it up. It's all staged by him. He wrote these complaints on behalf of relatives and acquaintances everywhere. I wasn't even present at all these businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u364	Yes. Well, let's give it a chance, insists Tsuko, ask a question. Please. Zushka's microphone. Questions to the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u365	Respectable. Deputy Cusco, Socialist faction. Dear Mr. Foreigner. There are facts, and I, you know, rarely get involved in the fate of the judges, and I've specifically studied your question, I've met people in the Ivanov region. You care for people, you don't have a lot of people. You're threatening to wait, I'm going to be president of the court, and then I'm going to show you. Not enough of that. You've expelled the lawyers and the halls are all facts. And the most interesting, distinguished colleagues, that all the deputies from Atonement are in favour of this gentleman's release. He's not worth being a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u366	Well, that's not a question. All right, please, let's be clear. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the release of a judge. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 15, part 5, of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release Foreign Victor Georgievic from office as judge of the John’s People’s Court of Odessa in connection with a violation of his oath to the judge. Registration number Regulation 6154. Please vote. [[13:40:18]] For 338 The decision is made by factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 59, Regions of Ukraine - 57, Communist - 54, Social-Democratic Party, 34, Labour Ukraine - 30, National Agrarian Party - 20, Socialist - 20, Block Timoshenko - 4, Union - 17, Only Ukraine - 15, NDP industry, entrepreneurs - 17, Center - 0, Deminiciative peoples - 3, non-fractional - 8. We're listening to the draft decision on the release of Judge Chepurno. This is registration number 6155, reports the Head of the Legal Policy Committee on Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. Please Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u367	The committee considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the dismissal of the judge of the Primorski District Court of Zaporozhye district of Chepur Sergey Vasilovich, in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. The committee supports the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of Chepurna from the post of judge. Because I've been noticed and that's true. Which was the main reason for Chepur's dismissal from the judge. Well, let's say it was checked that the 7 cases that it dealt with back in 2001 were not resolved, there were no protocols, there were no cases that were not filed with the office and there was no execution of them. For example, during the six months of 2002, 231 civilians were involved in the conduct of Chepurna. Of these, in fact, 24 were dealt with only in matters. I told Chepurnam directly on the committee that he needed to find another place to work. So I think that the submission that Chepursky should be working in another field is in another sphere, but he can't work as a judge. [[And it's not just me, it's the committee's opinion, it's the committee's decision.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u368	Dear colleagues, are there any questions for Vasil Vasilovich? You don't? Is Chepurny here? None. Dear colleagues, then, with your consent, I am putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to release the judge. According to article 85, paragraph 5, of article 126, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release Chepurni Sergey Vasilovich from office as judge of the Primorski District Court of Zaporozhye in connection with a violation of his oath to the judge. Registration number of Bill 6155. Please vote. [[13:43:36]] For 332 Decision taken. We're listening to draft decrees for the election of judges. Registration number 6151. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u369	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine proposes that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u370	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, one minute, if you please. Dear colleagues, there has just been a meeting of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly. In this regard, Ms. Nino Burjanadze, Head of the Georgian Parliament, is in Ukraine. Let's welcome her. [[Applause]] And also, your honorary colleagues, the head of the millimadliss of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Murtuz Aliskerov. [[Applause]] Deputy Head of Parliament of the Republic of Moldova, Michaelo Kamzan. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the action that we have just done on the assumption that our fruitful cooperation within the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly will allow us to take advantage of all our opportunities, reserves to successfully develop our countries in the economic, political, social, and social spheres so that we can take a decent place in the world co-workers. [[Applause]] Thank you. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u371	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov District of Stukovenkov Tetjan Grigorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of High Valentine Stepanovna, Gudkova Dmitra Fedorovich, Estinina Valentina Vasilovna, Zubova Ludmila Mikolayovna, The Lady of Olena Fedorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Matyushenko Igor Volodymirovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zakartat district of Didik Vasil Mikhailovich, Kustan Boris Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Illichov Petra Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region of Kiselik Stanislav Anatoliyovich, Fomichov Sergey Evgenovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Valko Natalia Mikhailnovna; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Doubik Tetjana Stepanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Balaban Viktor Fedorovich, Suvorov Valerija Alexiyovich; The Court of Appeal of the Suman District of Bear Nina Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil District of the Stadnik Oleg Bogdanović; The Court of Appeal of the Hmelni district of Bassa Alexi Grigorovitch and Shersun Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u372	I'm sorry. Pulled over by who? Tegnibok's microphone, please. Yes, according to Bass, the Court of Appeal of the Hmmelnick district. Yes, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u373	Shershuna Viktor Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Adamenko Love Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv District of Bobrov, Irina Alexiyevna, the Cozy Valery of Mikolaiovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Tkajuk Oleg Stepanović; the local Armenian city court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sheshakovsky Ludmila Petrovna; the local Bilogir district court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Lucheco Ludmila Grigorovna; of the local Krasnogvardy District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kiruhina Marina Anatolyevna; The local Chargord District Court of the Sokolovsk Tetian Aleksyivna District.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u374	Yes, I'm sorry. Please, Boko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u375	Dear colleagues! After Sokolovska Tetjana, Alexiyevna, we have dealt with the question twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u376	Ivan Sidorovich, let's shoot now, and then, when we talk about it, you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u377	I'm taking down her candidacy. And, Adam Ivanovich, there we missed the Bear, the candidature to the Court of Appeal of the Sumu district.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u378	Sumski. I mean, there's a warning. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u379	There's a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u380	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u381	The local Lenin district court of Vinnice Kuzmishina Vitalia Mikolaiovich; of the local M.E. District Court of Dnipropetrovsk Mustath Antonina Mikolayevna; the local Selidium City Court of the Donetsk Region of Vorobjov Irina Volodymyrna; the local Snow White City Court of the Donetsk region of Savakov Svetlana Volodymyrna; the local Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Shaliev Victoria Anatoliyivna; The local Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye district of Fomin Viktor Anatoliyovich; the local Mikhailiv District Court of Zaporozhye district of Samofal Yuri Vasilovich; Local.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u382	Please, Anatoly Frost, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u383	I'm asking Samofal Yuri Vasilovich to delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u384	Okay. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u385	The local Brovarsky District Court of Kyiv district of Avramenko Mikol Grigorovich. the local Golovanov district court of the Kirovograd district of Burkovsk Vladimir Gavrilović; Local Kirov City Court of Luhansk Hennady Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u386	Please, Nighthawk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u387	The candidate for the post of Judge of the District Court of Kyrovograd. The Hard Ukraine faction was turned to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u388	Mikola Petrovich, excuse me, Burkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u389	Burkovsky Vladimir Gavrilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u390	Yeah, okay, okay. All right, then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u391	The local Kirov City Court of the Luhansk district of Harchenk Hennady Antonovich; The local Shevchenkov district court of Lviv Zim Irina Evstafiyevna; the local Central District Court of Mikolayeva Alyejnikov Volodymira Alexandrovich; Local District Court of Odessa, Gromic Ruslan Dmitrovic; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Kuzmenko Natalija Leonidivna; the local Orgitsky District Court of Poltav district of Yuhimovich Vysvolod Fresnović.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u392	Please, Masenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u393	A warning about Yuhimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u394	Right, Yuhimovich. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u395	The local Poltava District Court of the district of Ryabishin Andrija Alexandrovich; local Krukovsky District Court of Kremenchuk Poltavsk Region Osenko Tamar Ivanovna; the local Lipovolean District Court of Sumi district of Seminy Lydia Ivanovna; the local Mid-Bud District Court of the Suman District of Sweden, Irina Eugene; the local Yellow District Court of Kharkiv Kononenko Zia Alexiyevna; the local Moscow District Court of Kharkiv Danilov Malvin Volodymyrna; the local Redwater District Court of Kharkiv Didovitsa Valentina Andriyovich; the local Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of the Hmelnicke District of Kasap Viktor Mikolaiovich; the local Nižin Regional Court of the Chernigiv district of Marchenko Mikol Mikhailovich; the local Semenov district court of Czernigów district of Popovic Viktor Volodymirovich; the local Chernigiv district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u396	Please, Stratovic's microphone. Check.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u397	I have a question to Vasil Vasilovich, not to Shahov, because the polls we've been distributed show that she's been working as a judge since June 6, 2002. It is known that the President is appointed for five years. What's being challenged is that this candidature here, just to clean up the experiment, I have nothing against Shah's character personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u398	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, give us an immediate answer so we can determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u399	I think we're going to check the footage now, so we don't have to make any mistakes, but since we didn't have that issue in our committee. We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u400	I mean, for now, we're asking a question mark.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u401	But there's no complaint, no. Nothing was going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u402	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u403	Kaspur of the local right-wing district court of Chernigova Kashpur Olga Valeriyivnu; the local Obolonian District Court of Kyiv Dibu Vasil Guriyovich; the local Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol, Colbine Tetjana Pavlovna; the local Nahimov district court of Sevastopol, Yelan Olen Eduardovna; and the court-martial of the Wynnick garrison of Polishchuck Oleg Ludwigovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u404	Yes, your honorary colleagues, so we are with you, according to tradition, and according to the law that we have in place regarding the appointment and release of judges, we now have to make a decision with you to elect judges. That's why I'm going to put the election order to the vote. Excluding those to whom we were referring. I call these names. With the exception of the judge of the Court of Appeal of Suma District, Nina Ivanovna, except for the judge of the Court of Appeal of Hmeljna District of Basa Oleksija Grigorovič, except for the judge of the local Chargord district court of the Sokolovsk Region of Sokolovsk Tetjana Alexijovni, except for the judge of the local Mikhailov district court of Zaporozk Region of Samochval Yuri Vasilović, the local Supreme Court of Kirovgrad region of Borkovsk, Vladimir Havrivlović, the local Orzhic district court of Poltavski district of Yukonović, and, for the time being, probably before the vote. Are the Shahs ready or not? Then the Shah's Olga Grigorovna is the local Chernigiv district court of the Chernigiv region. Please, there's another offer from Boko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u405	Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u406	Vasil Vasilovich, wait. Please. Boko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u407	Adam Ivanovich, I take off my warning on Nina John Bear and ask her forgiveness because there was a confusion with Romanian city and district courts. We're taking off our bear warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u408	Okay. So from the point of view, Nina Ivanovna's bear and the Suma County Court of Appeal is off the question, and she's on the list. So I put to the vote the Supreme Council Order on the election of Judges, please vote. [[Registration number 6151]] [[13:55:32]] For 373 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, let's go as in the order of deviations. Please, the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljnicke District, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljnicke District of Bass Olexy Grigorovich. Who had a note? Pully microphone, please. And Bass, come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u409	Oleg Tuggnibok, U.S. Freedom Union. Dear Alex Grigorovich, you may know that there is an unprecedented famine of ordinary people in front of the Hmelnicka administration in protest against the construction of the department store. Despite the fact that there was a decision of the Hmielnick. As of May 7, this year, which has recognized the illegality of building a commercial service centre, has led people to despair that people are starving and are already being brought to them by ambulances. Here you are now appointed to serve as an extremely responsible judge of the Court of Appeal. Please tell us that this matter is a political order before the presidential election. How will you react as a person who will take up such a position, I hope, if you are faced with a similar situation? Will you respond to appropriate orders or from the Cabinet of Ministers or from the Presidential Administration? Your answer will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u410	Yes. Dear colleagues, please, Alexy Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u411	What can I say? So far, I have made decisions in accordance with the law, and I will make the same decisions in the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u412	Yes. I see. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u413	I wish Alexy Grigorovich had said what decision he was going to make and I would have said first that he could not be recommended by a judge. He's a judge. to make decisions in the appropriate room in accordance with the Civil Procedure or Criminal Procedure Code. The committee recommends that it be supported. That's a good one. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u414	It's true, Vasil Vasilovich, the only thing you forgot to say is to make decisions in accordance with the laws we make here. Please, Novak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u415	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. You know, I've been listening to this for a while now, colleague Pullibok, and I'm thinking, well. We can't put people like that in order to at least be here, like, annoying, like blowing up the atmosphere. I know this judge personally, and you know, after 18 years of work, he's already working as a judge at the Hmiel. And they're very good at him, very good at thinking about him as a man, as a judge. In principle, he makes decisions. Well, we can't, we haven't talked here once, we can't build our relationships on emotions. Dear colleagues! I'm just asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u416	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the decision to elect Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnick district of Bass Aleksija Grigorovitch. Please vote. [[13:59:11]] For 350. Decision taken. The factions? Please. You don't have to? You don't have to. Yeah, you don't have to do that when the faction gets in your hands, do you? So the local judge of the local Chargorod district court of the Winnitsk district of Sokolovska Tetjana Alexiyevna. Please, Auntie Alexiyevna to the microphone, who had the note? Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u417	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I took part in one of the courts that considered the summary of the past parliamentary elections in Chargorod under the leadership of Mrs. Sokolovsky, and I was convinced that she was not having an objective trial. It allows itself to be involved in political games. And no matter who won it, no matter who won it, no matter who won it, but when a person consciously tries to play tricks on those who faked the sums in separate areas, when he deliberately goes for a violation of the law and moral code, I don't think such a person can be a judge. Two times the Supreme Council has already rejected her candidacy, I mean, two times. How did she get here the third time I didn't understand. It seems to me that this is a violation of the general order in which we consider and appoint judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u418	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please listen to what I have to say. In view of the fact that we are now taking matters too seriously, there is no need to allow any deviation or violation of the rules. So with your permission to finish this question, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Who's the question? Probably to Vasil Vasilovich and then to Tetjana Aleksyivna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u419	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have studied the matter quite carefully. We were really approached by Mikola Evtichovich Melnik about the fact that Sokolovska in her time in 2002 declared elections invalid in certain areas. There were no decisions. And there's nothing illegal about her anymore. Listen to me. The decision has not been revoked. The decision has not been revoked. Moreover, when making the Sokolovsky decision, it came out of the previous decision that Sukhin’s complaint was taken. So it was the right decision to make, because another decision had been made before. The question is, how is Sokolovsky said to be on the Supreme Council for the third time? I want to tell you that for the first time, she, her candidate, was considered on 19/06 2003. And then she got 218 votes. The next time it was considered, it was scheduled to be held on July 9, 2003, but it was withdrawn and scheduled for review by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court and the Qualified Commission carefully examined the circumstances of the case. And we were given a new statement that she could be chosen as a judge. What's more, I'm going to tell you that when the committee was sitting at its meeting on September 15, 2004, it actually unanimously decided to recommend it as a judge. Nice features, nice qualifications. You know, someone might be offended. But it is not possible to decide the fate of a person from a shoelace. I want to say that this is not my position, that this is the position of the committee. The committee requests that Sokolovsky be supported as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u420	Please, Melnik's microphone. After him, the Cloud. Melnik Mikoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u421	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I was at one of the committee meetings when Sokolovsky was confirmed. The committee’s deputies all voted and declared Sokolovsky to be a political killer, as it was said. She can't be allowed to go to court. And the third time today is out again. So I ask you to consider this situation and make the right, the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u422	Please, Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u423	The cloud, the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I'm surprised by your position. First of all, we don't decide the fate of Sokolovsky's man here, we decide whether to elect her judge or not. She can work in show business anywhere, but I think it's just, you know, a cynical stretch, an effort to reach out to this judge, who has apparently committed a rude and deliberate violation of the rule of law in her time and again, it's disrespectful to the Supreme Council when the Supreme Council has already made the right decision about her, and you're pushing her again. I urge everyone not to vote for Mrs. Sokolowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u424	Stepan Ilkovich, first of all, it's not my personal opinion, I'm obliged to report the committee's decision, I'm reporting it, and I'm not pushing it. I'm just trying to give you an objective report. And there is the submission of the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine, which is the filing of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. So everything happens according to the law. And you make up your mind, that's your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u425	Aunt Alexyevna, do you have anything to say? Question to whom? To the judge? Please, Headmaster. Please, Head Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u426	Sergey Glaucus, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Your Honor! You know that according to the principles of judicial decision-making and professional activity, the rules of the Constitution and the laws that Adam Ivanovich said we are here to take, but also the principles of our own conscience and morality. Now, the Supreme Council, as a senior representative of the people, has denied you trust twice, has rejected you twice. From the point of view of your own and moral conscience, do you have a moral right, not a formal one, as Onopenko says, because the Higher Qualifications Commission is promoting whether the Head of the Supreme Court is promoting, from the point of view of conscience, morality, if you have, as you think, you can go on, having such a conscience and such morality, exercising justice and justice in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u427	Please, Auntie Alexyevna, let's answer that and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u428	I mean, the judge. To answer to Mr. Head, that the judge should not be guided by emotion in his work. When I made my decision, I made it on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the basis of electoral legislation. A lot of tests have been made on the decision. In the two years that I've been executed, well, I'm sorry, I have to say, it's been tested several times. And I've already told someone, and I'm ready for you at every single point, every word of my decision to explain. I was governed by the law, governed by the Constitution, the Declaration of Human Rights. The law was passed by you, and I am only a doer, and I have fulfilled it according to the requirements and according to the conscience of the judge, because it is written in that decision, still corresponds to the facts and evidence, verified and evaluated in a court of law. I want to make a point. Complaint satisfied in part. Today, there's a court there. "political killer" is what I was called here. It's an insult of its kind today, but it's not a decision without research. It was. If Mikola Evitikhovich and Deputy Boki were in the courtroom, they saw the decision. In accordance with the requirements of civil and procedural legislation, there was a fixed presence of the press in the presence of television. And no infringements have been detected by any judicial authority higher than in this decision. The decision is legally valid. And it was adopted according to the law which you have adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u429	I'll put it to a vote. Vasil Vasilovich, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u430	Dear colleagues, since my first name has been given, I believe that both conscience and morality must be in harmony with the law and the rule of law. The Constitution, which is so respected and known by Sergey Petrovich, reads: "There can be no extra-judicial control." The decision became legal. We want to make an assessment with more control. I think it's gonna be wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u431	I think the two justice ministers will then have a discussion with each other, and so far I'm putting to the vote a verdict: to elect the judge of the local Shargoros District Court of the Sokolovsk Tetjana Alexiyivna. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:09:43]] For 269 Decision taken. He's a local judge. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 56, Communists - 0, Social Democratic Party - 40, "Trudova Ukraine" - 30, National Agrarian Party - 9, Socialists - 0, Timoshenko Block - 0, "Soyuz" - 16, "One Ukraine" - 16, NDP, Industrial and Business Party - 15, "Centre" - 9, "Deminiti-Narode" - 12, "Postfaction" - 10. Samofal Yuri Vasilovich, Mikhailiv District Court of Zaporozhye Region Please, it's Frost Anatoly's microphone. And I'm asking Samofala to come up to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u432	Dear Adam Ivanovich, venerable Vasil Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Judge Samofal Yuri Vasilovich had already been considered, if you recall, at that session. He's got 53 votes. Then they looked at it again, they rejected it again. Vasil Vasilovich, it's me. I had a conversation with Vasil Vasilovich. Why haven't I been invited as an MP from that district to address this issue? And there are standards in general. It's probably the third time, how long can you think about it? And if I have to, I'll repeat those three questions again. It's a savagery in our country, in our country. So I'm just asking you. And the questions were followed if they were to be repeated. First. In the Mikhail district, in its own time, with the breaking of every rule, safety techniques and so on, one person burned 16 like him, a cave. The cellar where the food is stored and so on. A criminal case was committed. For five years the case was fined, then Judge Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u433	Dear colleagues! Vasil Vasilovich, indeed, the question that, according to the law that we have adopted, we have only twice the right to consider. If this is the third time, please explain the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u434	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy may also be wrong because there are people there. But we didn't let that happen this time. In fact, 9.07.03 was considered by Samofal Jury Vasilovich, who won not 53 votes, 59. But it doesn't change. We sent for further inspection, returned to the Supreme Court in general, and said: “Make sure that we can report the situation objectively here. I'll let you know. It's a fire. The case came to trial from the prosecutor’s office in 1801. In 98 C.E. More investigations have been made on a number of occasions. 31.05.2000 was changed. For the sake of the party and for the consideration of Vasilkovsky. Basil's District Court. Judge Samofal did not pass judgment on the matter. Next. The appeal by a candidate in Bondarenko’s national deputies about the annulment of the District Electoral Commission’s decision by Judge Samofal was not heard. Third position. You didn't even talk about it, but we checked. In the civil case of the issue of the issue of the issue of the release of pomegranates to the SPC, Mikhail’s Interhouse Combustion Plant, no infringements of existing legislation have been established. We've checked the data, and the committee doesn't think there's a reason. Now, Anatoly Santa Claus, I respect you and, believe me, we invited you to the committee, gave you the wrong mobile phone to your secretariat. Now it's been established that your cell phone is 8067.9447.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u435	Don't call the whole Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u436	92, it's only after the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u437	Vasily Vasilovich, why are you talking about the phone number for the whole state?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u438	But the data on the committee's website is all there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u439	Moreover, when we consider matters with the courts, there is or should not be a telephone right. Please, Frost, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u440	Vasily Vasilovich, I have a lot of respect for you, too, and I don't need to tell you, it's just child talk that you couldn't find me. We're in the same house right now, I'm on the 10th floor, you're below. It must have been possible to find a national MP. This is the first time. Oh, that's different. Vassil Vasilovich, you're mistaking the facts of the case. Judge Samofal was five years old, I say, and handed it to Vasilyvka. The second question. There were 11 cases that had not been considered, and two years later the case had not been considered. And when I went to the judge, he giggled and continued not to do what people demanded. And the third. It's the election. All I asked was for the judge to put his hand on his heart and say if there were only five ballots for one and five for the other to declare the election invalid and to throw away a million government money? Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u441	Anatoly Mikolaiovich, name some other data. That's all I said. I was told that the Supreme Court, the Qualified Commission and the Committee had checked. I'm reporting to the committee. There's nothing else I can say. If there's a fact of gravity, if there was, you have to verify the catch-up and everything. For help, I haven't lived there in a year, but I'm welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u442	Okay. Dear colleagues! Once again, I ask your permission to continue the meetings until we have finished the discussion. We have two or three left. So let's work faster. I put to the vote the Order on the election of the judge of the local Mikhail district court of Zaporozhye district of Samohlav Yuri Vasilovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:16:12]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 7, "Regions of Ukraine" - 52, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 37, "Trudova Ukraine" - 29, National Agricultural Party, Socialists, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The Union" - 6, "The One Ukraine" - 14, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 3, "The Centre" - 13, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 12, "The Non-Flocked" - 0. Yes. Burkovsky Vladimir Gavrilović, Kyrovogradsky Regional Court. Who had Nightshenko? Please, noschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u443	The Hard Ukraine faction, Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich. Warnings regarding the candidate for Judgeship of Burkovsky Vladimir Gavrilovich According to the territorial administration of the State Court of Justice during work, the number of cases that had been cancelled or changed in the appeals office had increased as a result. There was a place where there was a violation of work discipline, rudeness. One fact alone, according to the head of the district court, starting in March 2003, he did not refer to the introduction of the Burkov new cases in order to be able to complete the cases that were assigned to him. We have an offer, they think it's what they're saying today. the decision-making decision for Vladimir Gavrilovich. The decision not to take, give the committee time, legal policy, learn these questions under the circumstances that will sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u444	Honorable colleagues, perhaps, will we do so? How's Vasil Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u445	Dear colleagues, I think this data should be checked. We didn't do it once to avoid making a mistake, or we're still deciding on the fate of the human being.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u446	But at the same time, but at the same time, is Vasil Vasilovich, but this is not going to be a question? Just so it doesn't happen, let's say we've considered it once?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u447	No, according to the law we have passed, this is not a consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u448	Well, then Borkovsky's candidate, Vladimir Gavrilovich, is further studying. Yes, a remark to the judge of the local Orchik District Court of Poltava district of Yuhimovich Vesvoldod Fresnovich. Masenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u449	Honorable colleagues, national deputies, the point is that Yuhimovich's candidature is repeated for approval by a judge of the local court, but this time I have also cited facts that, by moral indications, cannot allow him to hold this office, and this time I am confirming. First of all, it's very rude to treat prosecutors. Already at the Committee, Vasil Vasilovich, we have considered with you that, even the Head of the Supreme Court has overturned his decision. On the moral side, this person cannot morally embrace this position, since I have already set an example of an illegally imported car of Mercedes Benz in the customs territory of Ukraine. While illegally staying, three traffic accidents took place in Ukraine. Taking advantage of being a judge, these accidents will not be registered. When I sounded it, yes, HAI, DAI -- everyone was so confused that it was a crime committed, and it covered everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u450	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, the Committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u451	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, since there's not enough time for Alexander Mikolaiovich, I'll tell you what kind of judge made a mistake in the eyes of the national deputy. Well, first of all. Second, it was stated on the committee that Judge Yuhimovich owned eight acres of land there. During this time, we needed help with the executive of the Orgic Rural Council, where it is written that Yuhimovich Volodymyr Francisch was assigned a two - hectare - size area. Like any other land, a son or family is used there. Next, his son worked in court. When Yuhimovich became the head of the court, the son was transferred to another court when he took office. There's help from the head of the Lubensky district justice department of Marchenka. And the last. In fact, he drove the car and couldn’t get it out. On the committee, I explained what had changed legislation. So you give an evaluation in this room and make a decision. But accept the balance. To help me out, I want to say that it's really 5.06. In the year 03, he won only 151 votes last year. Now both the Qualified Commission and the Supreme Court have made the appropriate submission, the committee has taken the appropriate decision. I brought him to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u452	I am voting on the decision to elect the judge of the local Orgitsky District Court of the district of Poltav. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:21:48]] For-157. The decision is not taken. And we have a question with Shah's Olga Grigorovna. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u453	They gave it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u454	Stretovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u455	I've been given appropriate help with our footage, that there's nothing wrong with it, no mistakes are made. So there is a proposal to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u456	Stretovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u457	Dear colleagues, don't let Olga Grigorovna insult me, because I don't know her and I don't have any claims. But the documents given to us show that Olga Grigorovna worked as a judge from 1982 to 1985 in another state, under other legislation, and then returned to that profession in 2002, and the President appointed her for five years. Her term of office is not yet over. If we deviate from the law, let us step aside and put it into practice. If we follow it, let us await the conclusion of the five - year term for the judge, and then the Supreme Council, in accordance with the law, will consider this candidate. That's it. It's just technically what we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u458	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, maybe you're making a mistake there, but I have a candidate's help to elect an indefinite judge of the Chernigiv District Court of the Shahowa Olga Grigorovna district and it's written that since 20.06. 82 to 85, she served as the national judge of the Ichnian District People's Court of the Chernig region. I think this is not another country, as you said? And since 06.06.2002, he has been working at the Chernigiv District Court in the Chernigiv region. Maybe you can ask her and clarify some of the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u459	Well, you've probably confirmed that Strtovic said that she's actually working as a judge on 06.06.2002, that is. But listen to Olga Grigorovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, I was appointed Judge of the Chernigiv District Court from 06/06.2002 within a five - year term, as I served as Judge of the Ichnyan district of the same region of Chernigivsk from 1982 to 1985, i.e. five years. 06.06 - five years as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u461	Stratov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u462	A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u463	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! In order not to be an ass and not to be afraid, I suggest that the committee in general take a closer look at such facts. Since the President’s decree to appoint a Shahov court was issued in 2002 within a five - year term, it has been extended since the issue and for five years. It cannot be taken into account for the legal relations that arose prior to the adoption of the Constitution. Taking into account the situation explained by the judge, I ask my colleagues to vote and approve it as a permanent judge. But let's put an end to this practice once and for all. Because there is a law, and it is binding upon all its executors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m0.u464	I am voting on the decision to elect the judge of the Chernigiv District Court of the Chekhov region of Olga Grigorovna. Please vote. [[14:25:36]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Supreme Council, let's sincerely welcome the elected judges today, wish them success and no longer meet the deputies right here. [[Applause]] This morning’s session is closed. At 16 o'clock, let's get back to work.
