ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:37]] Registered -424 A total of 424 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on October 3, 2003, an announcement was made at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on the formation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which included 62 national deputies. Further developments after the announcement indicated that not all those on the list agreed to join the MPs and stated that they did not wish to participate in the Economic Ukraine MPs. Instead, on behalf of the "Economic Ukraine" MPs, all authorities are sending out appropriate addresses, letters, declarations, statements on behalf of the "Economic Ukraine" MPs. In view of what has been said, as well as the appropriate address of the Ukrainian National Deputies, I inform you that any references to the address of the local executive authorities and local self-government bodies to government structures since the "Economic Ukraine" MPs are invalid. And the MPs' union "Economic Ukraine" has no legal status. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we now have an agreed list of issues to consider. Hence, there is good reason to turn to these questions. Two factions of "Our Ukraine" and BUT require a break. He may suggest that we do. [[B in m in s a l in]] An interval of up to 10 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We'll continue our work. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Break results. Please. May I have your attention, please? We'll continue our work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u3	Dear national MPs, dear citizens! The "Our Ukraine" faction, the BUT faction in which they want to draw your attention to the fact of massive understatement and essentially the falsification of the 2004 budget. The fact that the 2004 budget is smaller than last year’s is economic nonsense. It is recognized by all but an active government. We're going to illustrate the whole lie that's been put into the budget in the number language. Deception first. The 2004 budget accounted for a gross domestic product of 225 billion last year. In fact, he made 263. Nearly eight billion have been hidden. It's the other one's delusion. The government has invested 4.8 percent in the growth of the economy, 9.5 percent in the government programme. The price of this deception is another 15 billion dollars. The first two lies, given the price rise, are worth 27 billion dollars. Deception is a third. Those who claim that GDP growth does not affect the income of the budget have never opened a manual on economics, since the gross domestic product includes a labour fund, taxes on production and imports and income. In other words, gross domestic product is either direct taxes or tax objects. And low GDP is nothing more than a hiding of multibillion dollars from society. The fourth is that the government has hidden not only 10 billion from society. The amount of the budget, but also the amount of the Pension Fund. The Pension Fund's revenues accounted for 89 billion in 2004. That's right. In last year's GDP report, it's 119 billion. Taking into account social accounting and the projected increase in wages, the 2004 Wage Fund amounts to 106.5 billion. That's right. The amount of understatement of the Wage Fund is 17.5 billion. That's right. It's hiding from Ukrainian pensioners for about 5 billion more. Money money. Is it enough to feed Ukraine’s citizens with the complete lie of the 2004 budget? The "Our Ukraine" faction and the BIT faction require immediate inclusion and consideration of the establishment of a new minimum wage, an increase in salaries for teachers, doctors, cultural workers, military and pensioners. Honorable National Deputies, members of the government's majority! Refusal to consider these bills makes you complicit in a crime of concealment from society of 15 billion. The amount of government revenue. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The factions require that the daily bill 5334 and 44 be placed in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The point is, we need to look at the committee. When the committee sees it, it'll give its opinion, we'll include it. Please, please! Let the committee take a look. On the Conciliation Board, we will determine. Then we'll put it to the vote. Please, Victor Mikhailovich. From procedure three minutes, please log in and we'll move on to our work. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. No, I'm sorry, Basil Nadraga first, sorry, please. People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! We received an agenda with you this morning. The agenda states that we must work in accordance with the option approved by the Coordinating Council, including social laws. I must remind you that the third question is the issue of pension insurance. Therefore, I would ask that we not announce additional breaks, not go to all kinds of regulatory tricks, but start working on the agenda that we received in registration. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u6	I just didn't get it that way, my dear colleague, the "parliamentary traps" -- to whom does this apply? I don't think it's for the Bureau, I'm following the rules. Conovaluk, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It is truly surprising that it took half an hour of recess to find out what all political factions and government as a whole understand. We remember that last week, the Prime Minister's mission was to prepare changes to the State Budget. So let's work on the schedule that we have now. And the fact that there are no objections to any national MPs will be discussed separately, at a separate session after the changes to the State Budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u8	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u9	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would also like to pay attention to the procedure. We will now have a review of the Law on the Election of Local Authorities. I would like to avoid such a situation that the amendments made by some national deputies were not taken into account. This is the right of every national MP to a legislative initiative, that is, an amendment is part of a legislative initiative. And by voting, we can conclude that the majority can vote in favour of depriving a minority of their parliamentary mandates. And at that point, and it'll be comfortable, it'll work quality, it'll be social laws, budget laws -- and everything, there'll be paradise and grace in this state. So I don't think we can go this way, we can't take the MP out of the legislative initiative under any circumstances. There's a law -- we need to vote it out, we need to go through the procedure, we need to discuss every amendment, we need to vote and we need to get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u10	People's MP Singeruk, POW faction. Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u11	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies. I ask you to consider a question that will, in fact, remove all budgetary problems. When we change the system of power, when power is politically responsible, then there will be no problem with ten to fifteen billion and twenty billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u12	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u13	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the National Union of Ukrainian Writers Dear colleagues, honourable voters, Ukraine said good - bye to an outstanding Ukrainian writer, national title winner Taras Shevchenk, a lawyer, a political prisoner of many years, a fighter for democracy, and a new Ukraine named Mikola Rudenko. He was an outstanding man who could read the fate of our Ukrainian nation in the twentieth and twenty - first centuries. I consider it an honor to stand up and mention this great man, the great Ukrainian, Michael Rudenka. Please honor his memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, please honor the memory of Mikola Rudenka by getting up. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Yes, dear colleagues, the draft Electoral Law is being announced. The draft Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village, city heads is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Please. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we need to consult. We have three draft statutes of non-admissibility, perhaps we would immediately vote on the statutes of non-admissibility, and then we would consider the issue. No objections? Yes, Your Honor, we have three draft decrees on the non-admissibility of this law by the people's deputies of Matvienkov, Boyko, then Mirimsky, Rahanski, Sklar, Nadrag, and Yuri Karmazin. Do the project authors need to base their position? I beg of you, Your Honor, let's stick to it. Yeah, three minutes. Please, Matvienkov. To prepare for the second decision and third, please. And now we're going to vote on these three decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! The proposed bill on local elections violates the Constitution of Ukraine no less than the bill that we voted on the election of deputies to the Supreme Council on a proportional system that week. In fact, it deprives Ukrainian citizens of their right to be elected to local authorities and to participate in the administration of the State. I will not remind once again that this law is written in agreement, let us say so, some political figures and in fact reflect the interests of only three per cent of the citizens who are currently in one party. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are no regional organizations and parties in cities in 16 areas of Ukraine according to official data of the CWC. That is, with the help of this law, the whole country is practically politicizing, party structures are trying to fill in, let's say, their local cells by driving voters into their bodies. When local advice is given to those who are interested. When are these local councils, those who have ever dealt with problems on the ground have been involved in politics? Article 37 of the Ukrainian Constitution prohibits the establishment and operation of the institutional structures of political parties in the executive and local authorities. Instead of addressing the problems of the road, instead of addressing the problems of the flow, and so on, the issues that arise on the ground today, we are virtually trying to address political housing at the local level. Imagine for a minute what the picture might be in the same Crimea if we hold these party lists today and what results we will receive. The next step is only to politicize home and street choices, and I just can't see the other way out. Nothing but irresponsibility will be given by the law. Furthermore, article 140 of the Ukrainian Constitution states: “Local self-government is the right of territorial communities to self-determination of matters of local importance”. The new law replaces parties with the notion of territorial communities. If this bill is adopted, we must then make it clear that the principle and the concept of the territorial community and the ninth section of the Ukrainian Constitution at all must be abolished and eliminated. That is, what we fundamentally base our Constitution is simply, let's say, the most intensely defamed and out of sight. The proposed bill violates not only the Constitution but also the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which Ukraine ratified back in 1997. In democratic States, there is a clear doctrine of local self-government - municipal authority is not politicized. In most States such as the United States, France, Japan, the local authorities have been unpoliticized and elections take place purely on the majority system. There is then a clear responsibility for each elected person for his or her work, and he/she is bound to each particular district. And most of all. I would like to ask the authors of this bill: “Have you at least asked the local authorities how they relate to this innovation? How will they work on the ground?" And that we are today
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the People's Deputies of Matvienkov and Boyko on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[Registration number 2211/P1]] [[10:47:15]] For-138 What? The factions, please. Dear colleagues! Calm down! Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 95, "Regions of Ukraine" - 5, Communist factions - 0, Industrialists and entrepreneurs "Trud Ukraine" - 3, "SDPU" - 0, "SPO" - 0, "Lulija Timoshenko" - 19, "The People's Government" - 2, "Deminitiates - 2, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 3, "NDP - 1, "The People's Party" - 8. Yes. Please, who's from the second project? Authors Mirimsky, Rahansky, Sklar, Nadrag Who will act? You don't? Rahansky, please. Anatoly Rahansky, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of the "Trug Ukraine" to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! Part 7 of article 2 of the aforementioned draft severely violates articles 10, 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the law of Ukraine, which approves it, since we are essentially the only ones granted guarantees, and the status of the Supreme Council of Crimea refers to the status of the local council. The laws of Ukraine concerning the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the election of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self - government in Ukraine, the election of deputies of local councils and others are also being applied. Therefore, on behalf of the People's Deputies of Crimea, I urge the removal of this position from the project and the consideration of draft laws on the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea separately, by the way, submitted to the Supreme Council much earlier, which is also a violation of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. I ask the National Deputies to support us and to appeal to you from this question also of the members of the Supreme Council in fact all the councils of Crimea. 100 members of the Supreme Council of Crimea asked you to delete separately the Law on the Election of Deputies to the Supreme Council of Crimea. And what would be the voting process, whether in the majority system or in the proportional system, would be the other thing. I'm asking about the deletion of the Law on the Election of Deputies to the Supreme Council of Crimea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 2211/P3, authors of the People's Deputies of Mirimsky, Rahanski, Sklar, Draga on the inadmissibility of the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republics of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads. Here comes the vote. [[10:51:03]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Please, your third project, registration number 2211/P4.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u19	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just received a bill at the table that should give us time to get to know each other. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am asking you to fulfill your last promise to stop the violation of the Rules in this room. The draft Law on the Election of Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village heads, adopted in the first reading, narrows the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and violates a number of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. There has already been an emphasis on individual ones. It violates 21, 22, 24, 34, 36, 37, 38, 64, 71, 141 articles of the Constitution, since it leaves a simple person truly able to accept and be elected to local self - government. The bill does not give a citizen a real, undeclared opportunity, not only to be elected to local self - government authorities, but also to present those to whom he trusts, or to have the right to submit his own candidature. In fact, a citizen is faced with the dilemma of agreeing to force entry into one of the parties or not being able to realize the rights to hang and be promoted. As head of the People's Party, I think it's impossible to bully people and force them into the party. In my opinion, the reason why citizens' constitutional rights are restricted is not in the desire to raise the role of the parties themselves in society, which should raise their authority by their work and thereby receive voter support. If that were the case, it would be possible to look closely at examples of the existence of a major system and strong parties in such major countries as Britain or the United States. But this violation of citizens' rights is an attempt to leave citizens with the right to the promotion and election to the authorities, which hides the simple wish of some party leaders to preserve the trademarks of their parties, because they are afraid they will otherwise not be able to get the support of voters who will want to see candidates from MPs face to face and in other representatives of the ruling regime in exchange for retaining their authority. It was unprecedented for honourable national deputies to vote on a completely different text of the 4285 bill. Deputies were given only two hours to make proposals to Project 2211. Disgusting restrictions on the rights of national MPs to take the legislative initiative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to participate in the debates, to ask questions, and so forth. What's your hurry? You want to do this all the way to Easter, to Orthodox. You want to break the Constitution. You want to do this so that you will not be hindered by the Lord God. He'll stop you. And I'm asking you to vote "unacceptable."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u20	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. With Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin addressing me, I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that on March 12, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by 273 votes, decided to consider today the Law on Elections to the Local Authorities. It's not my will, it's the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree, registration number 2211/P4, author of the National Deputy Yuri Karmazin, on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads. [[May I have your attention, please?]] Here comes the vote, please. [[10:55:27]] For 131 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, I only call someone "for": "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communist factions - 0, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and "Trug Ukraine" - 0, SDRU - 0, SPI - 0, Block Timoshenko - 19, "People's Government" - 2, "Dem. Initiatives" - 1, Agrarian Party - 0, National Choice - 0, NDP - 0, non-fractional - 8. Yes, all right, let's move on to the question. What's the procedure? Please enable the microphone from the procedure, the microphone, please, from the procedure. Yukhnowsky, Igor Yukhnowsky of the procedure, and then the word has the head of the Temporary Special Commission, Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The greatest festival of Christendom is approaching.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u22	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u23	The resurrection of Christ. It coincides with the original festival of the Slavs of Easter: the people are being cleansed, nature is developing. The family prepares chandeliers and pens — a symbol of life and the sun. We have the last Sunday before Easter. Deputies! Let us be polite to each other this Sunday. I urge you, as an elder of our Supreme Council, to show mutual tolerance and courtesy in your speeches, not to hold on to one another’s evils in your hearts. There's a political struggle going on, let's do it, it's been held back this week, following the Rules. I urge the leadership of the Supreme Council: only strict compliance with the Rules, Laws and Constitution can make the Parliamentary meeting on the Day of Passion a success and a good one, all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us heed the wise counsel of Igor Raphaelovich Yukhnovsky. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u25	Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. We are now approaching a law on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads. The temporary Special Commission, which has asked me to report on this issue, has made several proposals on the procedure for the consideration of this bill and I would like the chairman to respond to these proposals by voting on the session room. And that's what these proposals are all about. In the interim special commission, 783 amendments were made by the national deputies. Including the 55 amendments that the working group and the Legal Administration made at the commission of the Temporary Special Commission made, and yesterday we considered them to be those who regulate certain standards. Therefore, by applying both the regulatory law and the practice that we applied in the context of the bill on elections on a proportional basis to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we can end up voting separately so that there is no doubt about their content. If these amendments are to be referred to in the course of the consideration of the articles of the individual Constitution, I think we will be able to do so. In addition, the draft itself, as amended, contains three blocks of amendments, clarifications that go beyond the concept of this law as voted in the first reading. I mean, they contradict the idea of proportional choices. These are two types of amendments that I'm going to talk about, but the first ones are the amendments that we're going to see are mostly Ivanov's: the deletion of the standards that apply to elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's 16 amendments. The second block is 74 revisions by Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka regarding the majority system of elections to the local authorities. Further - Matvienkova Sergy: Corrections to the mixed election system, where there are party lists and self-regulatory choices. That's 59 amendments. That is, about 20 percent of the amendments, or nearly 150 amendments, that are about five hours of full - time work, the Interim Special Commission offered to put the vote to the vote yesterday. And if we get to one of these kinds of amendments by voting for acceptance or non-admission, then to them, if they're not accepted by the Supreme Council, so as not to go back to them. I would like such a procedure, since it has been handed over by the Temporary Special Commission and has been entrusted with sounding it to be put to the vote. And in general, then we can look at the whole context. I mean, almost half of the amendments to this project were made by deputies from the faction "Our Ukraine." And you have to say that they're all there, these amendments, in the context of a proportional election system. I think that all the authors of the amendments, I repeat, almost 800 amendments -- worked in good faith on the project, and we have to thank them for doing all of this by improving the bill itself, which is being considered today in the second reading. So I'm willing to look at your support for this project. And in the first paragraph, the title of the law: "The draft of the Law on Elections of People's Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads" -- the first amendment of John: remove from the title "the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea," the word "the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea." If Ivanov insists on his argument, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, let us perhaps agree. Anatoly Sergiyovich, I see. When he gets to you, we do. You'll have a line. [[N o M e s s a ……]] I want to. Dear colleagues. You were called, but the reporter didn't finish the report. If we finish the question, then you'll take the word for it. We're not going to interrupt this discussion with a lineup. Dear colleagues, national deputy of John, please microphone. Then we'll vote, and we'll all vote if we figure out 16 amendments to yours. Please. Dear colleagues, we are already in the process of dealing with the issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u27	Alexander Alexandrovich, I am addressing you and I just want to ask you a rhetorical question about my amendment. Well, there's a Constitution in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea that went down, that is, it was adopted by the Supreme Council of Crimea, and then we passed the electoral law. And today, we exclude the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and my return, my amendment excludes and thus gives us the opportunity to act on the Crimea Constitution. Do you not think that you will sow such animosity between the forces, between those political bodies that will be elected here at the centre and entirely by other political bodies that will be elected in the regions? Who's going to answer for that? Answer one question. You were a speaker. How many of these laws have we made, that we are still loose. Will you then take responsibility for those who are going to fight?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u28	I'd like to say that to the honourable MP. Then please name what law was passed during my headship or even the Supreme Council regarding the Republic of Crimea, which, as you said, should be "flaunted." You need to be more specific and cautious in your comments, but you need to touch on the subject. You don't protest that Autonomy of Crimea collects taxes on the basis of, for example, the only laws in force in Ukraine. This is why the Temporary Special Commission has also considered the proposal, including the members of the Supreme Council of Crimea. This is about the procedure for the formation of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local authorities of self-government both in Crimea and other places that are governed by one rule, so by writing separately to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, we thereby neither reinforce nor weaken the status of autonomy. So this is entirely designed by the conclusion of the Temporary Special Commission of Desire. And I wanted the session room to make a statement on this point by voting. In terms of one more detail. I've been rewritten, in particular, by Ivanova there, Rahansky there in separate places, and Miriamsky spoke on this subject, amendments 243, 245, 247, 288, 189, 319, 336, 338, 391, 398, 499, 658, 672, 689, 692 and 711, all related to one issue: to remove from this law the mention of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Let the session room be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote, please note, amendment number one, proposed by the national deputy of John. The question is, What procedure? Calm down, please. Amendment No. 1 of the People's Deputies of Ivanov. [[11:05:56]] For-35 The decision is not taken. So, honourable colleagues, as we agreed and agreed, our colleague John, that all the other amendments mentioned in other parts of the law regarding the deletion of the words "the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea" are being removed. Yeah? Let's move on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u30	The second amendment of Costinuk. He suggests in the name of the project after the words "city heads" add "heads of district and district government." Since this is contrary to the Constitution, because the heads of district and district administrations are appointed president, the temporary special commission rejected the proposal. If the author insists on voting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u31	Bogdan Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u32	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this is a general observation: I am absolutely in agreement with my colleagues, which is very bad, which is very late, this table has been distributed too late. Personally, I only got it this morning. And I also think that this is a violation of the Rules. And now essentially the amendment. Yes, I insist, however, that when we talk a lot about local self-government, we increase its role so that we can allow the local community to choose this local self-government. I propose to the name of the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils, the rural, village and city heads to add more to the election of both district and district heads of government. They are known to be assigned from Kiev, and they are dependent on Kiev, more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u33	I repeat that this has been considered, this amendment, it is contrary to the Constitution. In itself, the offer is reasonable, but it must be decided in another way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment number two by Bogdan Kostinuk. [[11:08:26]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Amendment three, Gunner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u35	The next amendment concerns the selection of city heads. Not just the city heads, but the district heads, the district heads, if the author insists. But it is contrary to the Law on Local Self - Rule, this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u36	Eugene Gorenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I don't really know what the change in your personal position is compared to the one you took in the '94s, and there was nothing wrong with it. Personally, it was my pre-election program. It says here, not the heads of administration that are actually to be appointed by the president or the government, but the heads of district and district. And that's a perfectly legitimate position, which, when discussing changes to the Constitution, made proposals in my constituency. That's why I insist on voting on this amendment and I think it's quite enough that it needs consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u38	I don't want to answer your concerns about the change of position, because you're not right here. I had a completely different position in 1994. And that system of interaction between local and representative bodies and administrations was, in my view, effective. But today the Law on Local Self - Rule does not provide for the direct selection of district and district heads; such positions do not exist in Ukraine. So you have to change the law on local self-government, let's make this happen, and then we'll go back to your proposal. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u39	The amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy of Hoornik is being voted out. [[11:10:26]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u40	The 4th amendment of Caterinczuk and Soboljev is essentially taken into account. I don't think there's anything to discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u41	The 6th repair of Bogdan Kostinyuk. It's counted. Well, Mikola Dmitrovitch, please. Does Caterinczuk insist or insists? Please, it's Katerinczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u42	Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. What I'm looking at is that, in fact, our amendment is taken into account, which we have proposed with Mr. Sobolev, but I would still like to ask the authors of this bill, do you not care about the possibility of discussing this bill at the local authorities? How interested are they today to see how different approaches will be in applying local authority to what is called the solution to community problems? And in my opinion, without discussion, without this bill going through some further work, it's going to be out of date and unfortunately not going to be operational, because that's going to be the result of a practical complication of the local elections. That's why I'm warning the people's deputies when they vote for this bill because you won't see the future in 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u43	I answer that question in this way. Today, not only are the authors representing the project, but the members of the Temporary Special Commission, who have considered almost 800 amendments to it. And the others. I am interested in having local authorities discuss this project in general after its adoption, adopt it, and apply it literally, rather than resorting to the forgeries that we now see in the elections. One. And the second. I'm fully attached to your concern about the careful consideration of this project, but all of your suggestions are in the concept of a proportional election system. You don't have to vote here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u44	So the amendment is accepted, there's no need to vote. It was simply a reflection on the fate of this law. Amendment number six, Bogdan Kostinuk. Doesn't Bogdan Kostinuk insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u45	She's already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u46	She voted. Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u47	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Ladies and gentlemen, I will still urge you, Alexander Alexanderovich, to persuade you to support this amendment. Because you, even if you argued that changes to the Constitution were needed, after supporting this amendment by the Supreme Council, we could also make changes to the Constitution. But look at what is happening today, for example, in the heads of district administrations or district administrations. If you go into their offices, there's a portrait of the President in each of their offices. And they all think they're Presidential officials. In fact, they are government officials, and they must answer to the people. I believe that if we accept this amendment, they will be much more accountable to the people before. Because we know a lot of examples when these representatives of the President have absolutely no confidence in the heads of the district administrations, and they run the hands of the district, and no changes can be made here. Therefore, changes can only be made through elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u48	I agree with your argument, but it does conflict with the Constitution. Let's make some changes to the Constitution, and then you can write something that doesn't conflict with the Constitution, and you know it. Therefore, respecting your right and believing that it would be wise to choose local leaders so that they know that they need to be healthy with those who live in the territory. However, we cannot write it in this law. I would ask you not to insist on voting this paragraph. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u49	Amendment N 6 by Bogdan Kostinyuk votes. [[11:15:00]] For-96 Correction not accepted. Amendment N 9 of Bogdan Kostinyuk. Are you insisting on her? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment refers to article 1, which deals with adding to the following notion that elections are held not earlier than six months after the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's the idea here? The idea is to get the election to the Supreme Council and to the local councils. This is a completely real amendment. I don't understand, Alexander Alexanderovich, I know that your structures are also supporting this idea at the polls to separate the elections to the Supreme Council, to the local councils. So why can't this be written down, why can't this position be supported, and why didn't your commission support this rational proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u51	In this case, the Commission was guided by the Constitution and practice in Ukraine, as well as by the voting during the first reading of the election bills, which provide for a single momentary election to the local authorities and to Parliament. Moreover, if you write here in six months, it would be contrary to the Constitution, because the Constitution defines the term of election, to Parliament, in particular. And so the Temporary Special Commission, coming out of this set of arguments, did not support your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u52	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment N 9 of Bogdan Kostinyuk. Yes, everyone, here comes the vote. [[11:16:57]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Amendment 12 of Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u53	Well, that's the same thing, we just voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u54	Well, she's already voted, so there's no need for her. What? What? That's how it's accounted for. Correction of the eighth. Bondarenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u55	Vladimir Bondarenko. I agree that the tenth amendment is counted, and the eighth amendment is not counted. And last time we passed the People's Deputies Act, and now. I still insist on defining the terms. We need to make sure that the article of the law directly lists the exclusive list of the deputies mentioned here. Sadly, a special article that defines the terms of this law did not take into account the definition of terms. And in this case, there's also a list. In one case it starts with the deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, otherwise it starts with rural, rural, urban, and so on. So to determine the order of application, well, let's say, this MP's body in this order, for example, either on the zoom line or on the line of reduction of the calibre of this MP, if you could say so figuratively. Because in some parts of the law, they're listed differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u56	The thing is, Vladimir Dmitrovitch is basically right. But the definitions regarding the entities governed by this law must be written as we agreed before in the electoral code. But what he is saying right now is that this law should touch a particular category of deputies, is in the first part of the second article, which says that "deputies of rural, rural, urban councils and rural, rural, urban heads -- and then, the deputies of district, district councils" -- and no one else. So essentially, your proposal is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u57	I'm putting to the vote amendment number eight of Vladimir Bondarenko. [[11:19:20]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 12. Please, does Bogdan Kostinuk insist on her? Please, the microphone. But we've already voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u58	I'd like to go back to Amendment 9, although we voted on it. Alexandre Alexandrovich, you referred to the Constitution, but as far as I know, there are no time limits in the Constitution for local council elections. If I am wrong, name an article in the Constitution that says so. But with respect to the 12th amendment. I'd like to, maybe not all MPs have understood my arguments, I'd like to add another argument to that, for example, what we have in the middle. I'm putting together the heads of the district government today. Each third of them is a member of one party, the Esdek Party. In other words, the head of the President's administration, abuse of his office, appoints the heads of district administrations from his party. Can such ones be put to peace in Ukraine today? So I'm drawing your attention to this question so that it doesn't happen again in the future so that we can change it. And because of the election, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u59	I was really wrong, saying that there was a Constitution rule about the date of the local elections, it was really my fault. And with regard to your other suggestions, I am willing to support them, just as they conflict with the present Constitution. They should be considered in a different order. I repeat, we have voted on this amendment. If you insist, let us vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, before voting on behalf of the TSC, the rapporteur said, "If the amendment is voted once, the same amendment shall not be applied twice." We have voted twice on this amendment. 112 votes. A friend received 96 votes. This is the third time we've voted on the same amendment. Is there a need for us? Oh, yeah. It's the vote of the 12th amendment. [[11:21:44]] For-103 My agitation has helped you. 16th Amendment. And the 13th isn't yours, so I'm sorry. 16th Amendment, please Klimpush. Don't insist. 14th, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u61	Again, Alexander Alexandrovich and Adam Ivanovich, I point out that we should once again define a clear list of the deputies we are referring to. For example, I wonder where the council members of the district were assigned? How do they choose? This article does not contain them at all. There is no district council in this article. Are they not choosing whether or not they will be assigned in some way? I mean, it's either missed here or you know more than I've seen here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u62	No, I see exactly what you see here. Districts in the cities, they're district councils, too. And in a separate article regarding the procedure for selecting circuits in city councils, there are separate articles. If you insist on writing after the word "deputy district, district, district council," let's finish and vote like that, I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u63	No, it's a completely different correction. Do you insist on voting? Please, the 14th Bondarenko Correction. [[11:23:41]] For-92 Correction not counted. With regard to the 13th amendment, it is included, but Klukkowski insists on voting it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u64	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! I ask that you pay attention to the two inadequacies that are involved in this amendment. First. It uses the term "the site community". Yeah, there's a general amendment somewhere in some kind of proposal, but I think it would have to be here, at least, to the sound of it, and it's not going to get there. I mean, somehow solving the problem of belonging to the territorial community, not because of membership that neither the Constitution nor the Law on Local Self-Government knows, but in another way. The second paragraph of this amendment also repeats what is then defined by individual articles of the law. And that's why. This second paragraph is just inappropriate, it has to be ruled out peacefully and it won't hurt anything. But it duplicates the standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u65	I think, and the right Yuri Bogdanovich here -- we're referring to the word "members of the respective territorial communities" in another article, we've made a decision on the Temporary Special Commission and we're proposing it to the Supreme Council, but during the legal drafting of this project it will be brought into line throughout the text. Similarly, I think you can completely skip the second paragraph when editing, since it refers to the general formula. And if we have to vote, let's vote on the deletion of this amendment. I understand the second paragraph of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, until the 13th amendment, the national MP, Klukkowski, has a point. I propose to vote and confirm the decision of the TSC to take this amendment into account in the text of the law. Please vote. [[11:25:54]] For 203
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u67	Well, we'll take it into account when editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Alexandre Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm addressing the people's deputies. You're in working mode. According to the Rules, if the TSC counted the amendment, but one of the national deputies insists that it is miscalculated. We need you and I to confirm the TSC's decision. So I'm putting the 13th amendment to the vote to support the decision of the temporary special commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u69	With the refinements of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u70	Vote. [[11:26:46]] For 248 Correction confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u71	Amendment 14, it's partially accounted for, it's not there. It's all taken care of. Oh, I voted. Amendment 16. Is there no insistence on the climes? He insists. Please, Oreste Klimpush microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The law provides for two voting systems: majority for rural and rural councils and proportional for city council deputies. This shows that there is an understanding that there are no suitable party structures in the small populated areas and there are no, and people choose people, that they know them personally and that they need to be personally created and that they have real conditions. The distinction in such locations is mainly administrative. And in fact, our case depends on the population. There are cities with a population of up to 10,000 and there are settlements of urban type, where there are more than 10,000. So I would like to present in part two of the second article in the following line: The election of rural, village, and city councils in small cities is held in the majority system. Small cities are cities with population.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u73	The proposal may be considered or withdrawn by voting or by supporting a vote. The temporary special commission concluded that the status of cities was determined, not only by the number but also by the size of the population. It is therefore necessary to determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u74	Amendment 16 by Oreste Klimpush People's Deputy [[11:28:52]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 17 of Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u75	It's the same as the contents. It's exactly the same for the content.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u76	That's how it can be simple. Please, it's Bogdan Kostinuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u77	Not enough arguments. Alexander Alexandrovich, you should say clearly why the commission rejected this proposal. You totally heard the offer, I think. In our legislation, we have adopted a very recent program of small cities. And it's about the distribution of cities, that cities to 50,000 people are called small. We have 350 such cities in Ukraine. We have cities that have between three and four thousand, and we have villages that have ten to fifteen thousand. In one case, party lists are held and no party lists are held. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we will discredit the idea of party lists. When we make choices like this, we're going to be in cities of about three or four thousand. It's a perfectly logical correction. I suggest whether now or in some other way you would return to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u78	Let's go back to him later. But we don't have three or four thousand cities in Ukraine. So please vote, make your choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u79	The amendment number 17 of Bogdan Kostinuk, page 4. [[11:30:30]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 19 Alexander Turchinova. Is Alexander the Turkinov insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mihailovich, Reverend Alexander Alexanderovich. I'm talking to you because I haven't been able to speak out of procedure, I want to say two words. You can't reject the amendments, as you say, conceptual ones that relate to a mixed or majority system there. I'll remind you that this Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, this is the very law of a mixed system that proposes to be elected to local councils. Because the villages, the villages, follow a major scheme. So the question of conceptuality and unconceptuality, they're not sincere. And I'm asking, when you're convinced that you're doing a good job, don't make it a bad thing, and let all the people's MPs be able to reason in a calm, balanced way. Now for the readjustment. This amendment refers specifically to the election of majority in villages and villages. There is a relative majority proposed in the law, and I am convinced that it is necessary for the absolute majority of voters to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u81	I answer in this way: I submit only the offer of a temporary special commission, I am obliged to do so. And you are obliged to vote as you see fit. That's your first remark. And with regard to the proposal to replace the relative majority by absolute, this was the principle that we had in Ukraine, and we refused it a few years ago, because then all the time there was a threat, if I'm not mistaken, it was in 94, in 98, because then there was a threat to the outcome of the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u82	Yes, I'm voting on Amendment 19 Alexander Turkinova. [[11:32:30.]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Amendment 20. Paul Matthews does not insist, I do not see. 21 amendments, Richter's, Musiak, don't you insist? No, it's not. 22nd, warm up? Don't insist. I can't see. Orestes Klimpus, 23rd, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Rahansky, 24? No, it's not. Kostinuk Bogdan, 25th? Are you insisting? Microphone, please. Well, we've already voted on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u83	No, this one wasn't voted on. But it is like the one we voted on. But I would like to draw your attention to this problem again. We have in our legislation this distribution -- small cities -- up to 50,000, and cities over 50,000. And I want to say that we have a whole series of really small cities where a small number of people and they have their famous history. Today, a large part of the population in these towns, I would say, went beyond Ukraine to earn money, because that's mostly in the western part of Ukraine. And for example, it is not appropriate to hold party lists in these cities. It's going to be a campaign of this whole idea and it's going to make me laugh. Alexander Alexandrovich, I'm asking you simply to make sure that the majority support this proposal. So you can convince the hall to vote for this amendment, for this one and for the previous one. And let's split it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u84	Of course, the law cannot be adapted to a particular situation. Citizens have gone to work abroad or have not left the East to go to Russia, the Eastern regions, and the Western ones to Europe. But, nevertheless, there's a universal election formula and I agree, there's a point to what you're suggesting, but let the session room be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u85	Amendment N 25 of Bogdan Kostinuk, page 5. [[11:34:56]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. And so Matthew does not insist. Richter's, 28 revisions. I can't see. Peanut 29, no. Haydosh 30. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u86	The fraction of the SDPO(s). Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, I propose that the right of national minorities be provided through my public organizations to issue their own electoral lists of candidates to the local councils of the relevant level. This right is stipulated by the law on national minorities and is implemented under the applicable law on local council elections. If we don't see it coming now, we're going to break the Constitution, which prohibits narrowing down the existing scope of human rights. I will note that the practice of realizing this right of national minorities exists in many European states. We are encouraged by the Council of Europe to preserve this right by national minorities in terms of the implementation of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. In general, such additions will ensure full representation of the interests of national minorities in local governments. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u87	The temporary special commission, considering this proposal, was guided by the fact that we have a civil society, a properly built state, and by national signs we do not adjust the elections to both parliament and local authorities. However, as the MPs are determined, let them vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u88	The vote is amended by 30th Istwan Haydosh. Page six. [[11:37:12]] Z-71 Correction not accepted. Amendment 31. Matvienkov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u89	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Respectable friends, the system that we are considering and adopting today, put the cross on the notions of the territorial community. We are taking the cornerstone out of the foundation on which our country is today. This is not only a blow to the Ukrainian Constitution, but it still poses a great danger to us in local councils to receive both tribune captures and fistfights and blockage, and simply politicization, so to speak. Given that today's amendments, unfortunately, are not being made by those who are proposing deputies, Vladimir Seminovich Boyko and I are taking all our amendments. But we cannot help but express our position that this bill will root out the system of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u90	Amendment 32 Istwan Geidosh. She's already voted. Don't you insist? It's the same thing. Amendment 33 Anatolia Matthew. Anatolia Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u91	Before Anatoly Sergiyovich takes the floor, I want to apologize to him because I made a mistake when I said he insisted on the majority system. I did not look at the initials of Matthew, or Peter, or Anatoly. He's offering a mixed election system. And I'm sorry I didn't get that kind of information. And one more second, as to what Sergey Matvienkov said. There's 59 amendments, we'll keep touching them. I'm going to say that these are the ones where I took off my remarks. And, to be fair, let them fight better on their fists than there will be such a dead body in the session under the leadership of the President’s Administration. That's not good either. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u92	33 Amendment, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u93	Dear Alexander Alexander, I want you as a wise man to listen to one very important point of view and better later than ever. I'm going to read Kostinyuk and comment on it. We have hundreds of places where we have less than 30 deputies. That means 1. 3 percent of the barrier is 0.75 0.9 deputies. Well, that's just arithmetic. So we have to review the proportional choices in small cities, and we have to raise the bar about small cities and move them to the village and the village. Two! We have to do this if we're smart. And as for the big cities, I propose to actually set up a proportional, mixed-proportional system, which is proportional and major. And I ask you to vote on this amendment, once again, by entrusting the TSC to return to small cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u94	Well, please, that's a reasonable offer. Let him vote with the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the amendment of 33 People's Deputies, Mr. Anatoly Sergiyovich. [[11:40:32]] For 105 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 34. Mikola Catherinechuk, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u96	Please pass the word to the author of the correction of Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u97	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u98	Sobolev, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the text follows a series of our amendments that relate to simplifying the wording itself directly in these articles, this applies directly to this article, where we propose not to repeat every time that "elections take place." And we're still going after the full list, and we're going to suggest that we limit this to "election lists." And so these repetitions won't burden you? What does this have to do with anything? Because in individual articles we have, for example, a "full list," it's required where it goes, for example, a list of all the advice, where elections are held on a proportional basis. Or, for example, a list of councils that do not hold elections on a proportional basis, but are held on a majority basis. In fact, the record generalizes all councils together, and so those who continue to obey this law will have a question in one way or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u99	I've noticed that it's wrongly spelled "refused," taken into account in fact, but the clarification given by Sergei Vladislavovich, in my opinion, needs support and can be settled then edited, once voted. The second time you don't come back, and then the whole text takes that proposal into account. So I would ask all the deputies to support the amendment of the 34th Electoral Act. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u100	Vote number 34, authors: Catherinechuk, Sobolev, page 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u101	Please vote. [[11:42:42]] For 132
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u102	The decision is not taken. 35th Amendment, Warming up. Is he insisting? I can't see. Anatoly Rahansky, Amendment 36. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u103	She's already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! The draft law provides for elections to rural and rural councils on the majority system. But tell me, where are the deputies of the district councils formed from? From the same villages. How can you explain that? Is it proportional? Is it major? So I'm going to make an offer, so let's go to the district councils, and we're going to choose for the majority system, because it's going to be a colossal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u105	I'll answer that. We now had elections for a mixed system before parliament, and to the local authorities under the majority system and the electorate were able to figure it out, there were no complications to explain. But how can we explain why 70 percent of the employees in the district councils work or are represented today? I don't think you'll explain. While the explanation is common: The system of power must be changed in principle, starting with the electoral system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u106	Amendment 36 of Anatolia Rahansky, page 8 is put to the vote. [[11:44:23]] For-25 Correction not accepted. 37 amendments - Richer, I can't see. The 38th Amendment of Anatolia Matviennek, we have already voted on it. We voted on the same amendment, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u107	We didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u108	As if they didn't vote. Microphone, please. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u109	Well, I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u110	Let me comment on this. We did not vote on this amendment, we voted on a mixed system of city council elections. And I understand that there is some absurdity in voting for this amendment for a mixed system, i.e. city council if cities are elected proportionally. But if the MPs support this amendment, it gives me a chance to go back to voting for city council members for a mixed system. So I didn't vote on this amendment, it's the norm of the other part. And I insist that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u111	This is a continuation of the debate on the electoral system. I agree with Anatoly Sergiyovich. Such a rule would be better, but for the democratic system, if the administrative resources were not applied. All the change in the electoral system is about not being involved by the executive structures in the organization of the elections. So maybe we'll get back to that amendment later. But if he supports the session room now, let's vote in favour of the 74 amendments that Anatoly Sergiyovich is making.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u112	The vote is amended by Anatoly Matviennek's 38th Amendment. [[11:46:13]] For-69 Correction not accepted. Amendment 39. We've just voted on it. Mikola Catherinechuk. That's how we voted. She didn't just show up. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u113	I would like to add to the argument that my colleague MP Sobolev made regarding the 39th amendment. It's identical to the 34th. But I would like to add that the logic behind this amendment is broader than just in terms of the ratios that are made up of lists. We look at what the Constitution is, and practice shows that community territory is not always the territory of the population. And we know that the Constitution allows several villages to form a single population. And so, let's say our amendment matches, the last sentence matches the boundaries of the area in the city. So we're trying to make some sense into the electoral process. Therefore, there is a request to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u114	Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this amendment is taken into account. And I can read what you're proposing with what's in the fourth article in the right column, except what's said here on election lists from organizations, political parties, election blocks of the political party organization, and the same thing. If you vote for your amendment, it's better to vote on the 34th amendment, where it's already been taken into account. If the MPs support it, let's vote. In the end, it can be edited, and that would simplify the law itself, make it a little bit shorter. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u115	Amendment 39 of Mikoli Catherinechuk and Soboljev is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u116	We can vote in favour. [[11:48:17]] Z-71 Correction not accepted. Anatoly Rahansky, 40 amendments, we just voted on her. You insist, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u117	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u118	41st, don't insist. 42nd, Anatoly Matvienko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u119	My fellow Members, I would like to remind you that violating an article of any Constitution by this law would endanger this bill at all once. So I'm drawing your attention to article 140, part four, where local self-government authorities representing the common interests of rural, rural and urban communities are district and district councils. And so there can be no such thing as any territorial community having no representation on the district council. This is a violation of the Constitution, it has to be guaranteed, not just by accident. And that is why we must guarantee this, and that is why the proposal for a mixed system that guarantees the representation of each community on the council and for a proportional system that develops party structure. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I beg you, let's hear about not endangering the existence of this law at all. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u120	I'm asking you to back me up, too. I vote for your offer, my vote, you see, very little. But, nevertheless, I am addressing everyone, please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u121	Amendment 42 of Anatolia Matthew, page 9 and 10. [[11:50:08]] For-84 Not accepted. Yes, 43 revisions. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u122	Sobolev, "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear colleagues, our amendment is that we've looked at these amendments several times, but it's trying to put the system in place. How the elections take place according to the proportional system. We suggest that then there be no ambiguous interpretation, the size of the area where these elections are taking place, write this clearly so that this area matches a multi-mandate district. What does this have to do with anything? Because, for example, the amendments made by Matviennek related to the fact that the territory of the city might not coincide with the real territory that is now being allocated to the land directly under this population, some of our citizens will not be able to vote during the elections. That's why our proposal is that there be no ambiguity in interpretation, and who has the right to vote in the territory of a city, is to refer to the territory of the district itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u123	I could not comment on this. But the point is, in the right column, the fifth paragraph is completely in the lineup of Sergei Vladislavovich and Mika Dmitrovitch, except for the words "from the political parties' organizations, electoral blocs, political parties' organizations that they remove." I repeat, it would be wiser to write this once and not come back every time with a vote on this point. And the boundaries in the multi-mandatory constituency, which are congruent to the boundaries of the area in question, as he suggests, are also proposed here. So please put it to the vote, I support this proposal. However, it should be voted in the 34th article, in the 34th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u124	The 43rd Amendment of Catherinechuk, Soboljeva, is put to the vote. [[11:52:29]] For-61 Not supported. 44th Matthew Anatoly. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, especially Alexander Aleksandrovitch, I want you to confirm that I am no amendment that has not been voted upon, I do not repeat, because there has been a charge that I repeat. My 440th amendment concerns district councils. The same article 140 of the Constitution speaks of guaranteeing the common interests of the territorial communities. And that's why we think the best way to do that would be to give, really, a mixed system for the formation of councils at the district level, where it would be guaranteed to be set up by an appropriate administrative unit that makes up a unit like the area. Once again, my friends, we question the operation of this law. We don't violate the Constitution because it causes anyone to repeal this law as soon as they vote for changes to the Constitution. Once again, I ask you to put to the vote, vote, and support the mixed system of district counciling.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u126	I'm not commenting, he's right, although there's a way out in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u127	The 44th Amendment of Matthew Anatolia. [[11:54:14]] For-64 Not supported. 45th, Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u128	The faction of our Ukraine. The bill sets out the idea that regional and district councils should be elected by the electorate of the respective districts and areas in general elections in multi-mandate districts that coincide with the boundaries of the districts and regions. And this, in our view, can only be considered if changes to the Constitution are made to article 140. Therefore, the very idea needs to be emulated by changes to the Constitution. But I'm going back to the content of the amendment that we've put to the vote and the reporter, Alexander Moroz, for the fourth time, doesn't say that this amendment is going to be, let's say, burden this bill with something too expensive, it'll just specify. Therefore, the request to Adam Ivanovich. Alexander Aleksandrovitch is not yet listening, please let us vote, and we have removed the following amendments, and do not delay the time. Please, let's vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u129	According to the content, this amendment is taken into account, and it needs to be refined according to the form. So either now, in order to withdraw the comments of amendments to the relevant content, or at the end, by voting in favour of the entire text of the law, we will return to the 34th amendment and then we will have to legally edit this law, removing the phrase "from the organizations, political parties, election blocks, political parties." By doing so, you can make it easier to design and improve the legal system of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u130	There was a call from Mikaly Dmitriwicz and me. I confirm that this issue has been discussed for quite some time at the TSC meeting. The majority of decisions are taken in the same way as in the comparative table. There's a vote of 45th amendment: Catherinechuk, Sobolev. [[11:56:34]] For-50 Correction rejected. Miriamsky, 46th, doesn't he insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u131	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u132	Ivanov, 47, made a deal. Rahansky, 48th. Please. Miriamsky? Please, Mirimsky, 46th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u133	I ask that the substance of the amendment is that elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea should be conducted behind a mixed system. I can see that no one listens to anything: everyone does their own thing. However, I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u134	Please let the session room be identified by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u135	It's the 46th Miramski Amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:57:37]] For-47 Not supported. 48th Amendment. Rahan microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u136	He's already taken it. He took it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u137	Dear Alexander Alexander. I want to warn you and everyone else again. You were in charge when the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was adopted. It was hard to accept. And not everyone likes that there's an Autonomous Republic today, probably, but it's already happened. So I would like to point out to you that we will be in grave violation of the articles of chapters 10 and 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the laws of Ukraine, which approves it, since we are essentially the only one with an Autonomous Guarantee, and the status of the Supreme Council of Crimea amounts to the status of the local council. Let's just delete and legislate separately for elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Or then we'll get to the point where they'll fix us but it'll be too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u138	The status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is determined by the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, not by the election law. Therefore, I believe that the warning given by the Rahansky MP is not legally justified. We don't do any harm to Autonomy's rights. We're unifying the electoral system for the state in Ukraine, and I think it's quite convincing to do so again, without imposing any rights on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u139	Do you insist on voting? Well, dear fellows, let's vote again, but we've put the same problem to the 10th time. Vote 48 of Rachansky’s amendment. [[11:59:55]] For-33 Correction rejected. 49 Matthew Anatoly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, judging from the results of the vote on the amendments, common sense in this room is dropping dramatically, and I think that you should try to resuscitate it somehow, because we can accept a lot of nonsense. I'm trying to protect the Constitution heroically, and yet common sense can last at least at the level of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and local self-government, including. And I'm talking to all my colleagues, let's say if we voted stupidly all over Ukraine, we're going to make an Autonomous Republic of the Crimea, and we're going to show that we have democracy and a desire to preserve local self-government, and we're going to vote in the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea for a mixed system -- 50 by 50. And please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u141	Like all of Anatoly Sergiyovich's amendments, she's as smart as the stupid ones we voted for. However, I think that if we talk about a mixed system, it would be better to apply it to the District Council, not to the Supreme Council of Autonomy, and you agree. However, if the MPs support your proposal, let's vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u142	It's the 49th Amendment of Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich. [[12:01:43]] For-61 The 50th is Catherinechuk, Sobolev. Don't you insist? The break was over. 52nd. That's disgusting. 50th. Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! The contents of this amendment are consistent with the contents of the amendment that you did not vote on, i.e. the 34th. And we fully agree with what Alexander Alexander proposed. And I think we're going to make some sort of consensus decision. Yet, I would like to ask the question of such an act. As you can see, what you've passed on the functions of many committees. profile committees, where there are self-government experts working on this issue, transfer to the Temporary Special Commission, where, unfortunately, there is more political approach than professional approach, or it will not harm the very idea of self-government because it is possible to choose the representatives of the community that exists and should carry out these tasks that face self-government. Still, given the direction of political reform, we're trying, Alexander Alexandrovich, to hand it over with you, to decentralize power, to transfer it more to cities. How are we going to secure it through the elections?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u144	I'm answering. If we take away the possibility of state administrations that are assigned from the top, and they are assigning councils on the ground today, that will be the decentralization that can be done through the application of this law. As for your amendment. I also agree that maybe we can go back to the 34th amendment in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u145	Fifty amendments shall be put to the vote. Catherinechuk, Sobolev. [[12:04:00]] For-25 Looks like we're tired. Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. We stopped at the 50th offer. Yeah, 51. Don't insist. 52nd Anthroschenko. Don't insist. 53rd, Gunner. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u147	It's already been voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u148	51st, don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich. I would like to draw attention to the results of sociological surveys. Just as 70 percent of the population wants to elect a president, so about the same number wants to choose their district and district heads. And the MPs are very well aware of that, especially the majors. I realize that there is little common sense and little MPs in this room and very little hope of success. But still, after listening to common sense, maybe something will come out, because that kind of practice had a place in us. I don't agree that we have to change the Local Self-Government Act first, we can start with this law, or we can stop driving horses, and we can change the whole legislation in such a way that the normal system of local self-government comes out. That's why I insist on accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u150	Yes, people want to, but not the district heads and district heads, but the heads of administration, you still have not continued, that is, the district and district authorities. But both are interference with the Constitution. Let's change the Constitution and then we'll adopt the law. Well, we've already voted on a few modifications. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote on the 53rd amendment to the Hound. Please be determined. [[12:35:07]] For-50 Not supported. 54th, Catherinechuk, Sobolev is not half.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u151	That was also a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u152	This was also voted by Mikola Dmitrovitch. 54th. Don't you insist? Catherine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u153	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. In paragraph 8 of the second article of the term "relative majority" I propose to replace the term "absolute majority." Why? The project’s developers suggest choosing a village or city head by means of a system of relative majority. However, the village head represents the interests of the entire community. Leaving the system relative to the majority might result in a rural or urban head representing the interests of five or ten percent of the electorate. With a system of relative majority, the main criteria of winning are not to win the trust of the electorate, but to get ahead of the competitor. The choices by the system of absolute majority are, I understand, technically more complex. You might need two tours. Yet the election system guarantees that a village or city will be headed by a person who truly deserves the trust of members of the community. And this is the co-sounding direction of implementation and political reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u154	The temporary commission was governed in this case that eight years ago we gave up the principle of absolute majority, because this did not select much, many advices and managers of the appropriate level. And then the person, the citizen, is taking part in the election in three ways -- voting in favour, voting against or abstaining or not voting. However, it is his attitude toward the process itself. And if you vote and you vote for most of those who vote, that's enough to determine sympathy and will at the local territorial level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u155	Mikolo Dmitrovitch, the 51st amendment is exactly like that, but I don't insist, come on and don't insist. Don't you insist on voting? We're voting for 54 of Catherinechuck's amendment. [[12:37:48]] For-47 Not supported. Smooth, 55th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u156	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u157	Don't insist. There's an amendment. Please turn on Carmazine's microphone. So far, 55th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u158	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I took advantage of my right to amend, since article three of the first part of the first reading declared that the local elections had the right to vote by the citizens of the respective local community, who were 18 years of age and who were registered at the appropriate territorial unit on the day the lists were clarified. Now the TSC has changed that and it says, "who are constantly living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea." I propose either that we vote for what the TSC is proposing, or I suggest we go back to the old edition, because we can be registered in Kiev, and we can live permanently, either in Berdichev or in Žmerinz, wherever we want, and that makes it possible to falsify elections and to interpret clearly. That's why I'm asking you to come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u159	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, the Temporary Special Commission, having considered this proposal, fully supported it, and in the right column you have the text that was edited yesterday by the Temporary Special Commission. And in the appendix that you've also received, it's written as you suggest. You have this amendment on your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u160	Yes, please, 59 revisions. 56 is not yours, and it's counted. You have nothing to do with it. 59th. Yes, Glady, please. Don't insist. 61st. Catherinechuk, please. Catherinechuk, please, 61st.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u161	Dear National Deputies! First, there's another 60 amendments, he's yelling at people. But I think we'll get it back after consideration of 61 amendments. The right to vote in the local elections, it is indeed written, have any Ukrainian citizens, members of the respective territorial community, who are 18 on election day and who are registered at the appropriate district office on the day of the voter list clarification. Humans are limited to the right of ability, including those with mental illness, alcohol abuse, or drug abuse, without the right to participate in local elections. Therefore, there is a request to include issues that are not limited in efficiency. I understand that this may not be entirely correct in relation to the Constitution, because it is already regulated in that way. But I still insist that this be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u162	For more information, see Please! It's essentially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u163	Yes, Catherinechuk insists? Please, the 61st Katerinczuk and Soboljeva. The amendment shall be put to the vote. [[12:41:38]] For-34 Not supported. Yeah, the miner insists on the '60s that it's partially accounted for. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u164	Deputies! Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, it says that it is partially counted, but an editorial that predicts that it seems to be partially accounted for does not give a clear answer to questions about the role of military service personnel. It says here, "which are not members of the respective territorial communities, do not participate in the local elections." That's the question. In the territory of the military, are the members of this section of the territorial community or are they not? If they are, then it's okay. This formulation doesn't satisfy me at all, it seems to me that it needs clarification. Because I would still think that it's better and more consistent with the Constitution to delete this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u165	Yesterday, during the discussion, on the Temporary Special Commission on this subject and on the prisoners, the Temporary Special Commission determined that it was not necessary for military service officers to participate in the local elections. And put a dot on that. Just as prisoners do not take. In other articles, there is an explanation of who refers to the local community. So I think we should vote separately. But when we get to the proposals that are, well, just reflected in the extra material that's given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u166	In fact, dear colleagues, let's support the TSC proposal, as said by Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. Yesterday we discussed the problems quite in detail: Who has the right to participate in which elections. And when we end up voting, there's a clear description of these positions, and we're voting on them. Let's not take up time here. Thank you. Please, Bondarenko, 62nd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u167	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I just wanted some adjustments here to bring such a philological order. Well, you see, the phrase is, "Lists of voters registered on the appropriate territorial unit." Well, "in the appropriate territory," or "in the administrative territory," well, not on the unit registering lists. That's the word "unit" that cuts off the hearing. I think we need to fix it editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u168	It's fixed. Look at the right column: there is no "territorial unit".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u170	That's one thing. And second of all, there's a detail like that. Please be careful! In the first part, once again, articles three in the left column were written "territorial units." That's not in the right column. And besides, this is Yuri Anatoliyovich's observation, keep in mind that in the appendix that you have in your hands and for which we vote, it also says, "the nationality of a citizen of the relevant territorial community is determined by his residence in its territory, as defined by the Ukrainian Freedom of Movement Act and the free choice of residence." This also concerns the issue of registration. So I think it's completely embedded in the legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u171	Bondarenko, do you insist on voting? Vote 62nd Bondarenko amendment. [[12:45:40]] Z-70. Correction rejected. Kostinuk, the '70s, insists? Kostinuk, please, Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u172	I'm going to insist on the 70th Amendment because this is about supplementing part two of Article 3 that the birth certificate in the constituency also gives us the right to choose alongside other documents. But I'd like to. Dear Adam Ivanovich! May I have your attention, please? I'd like us to get back to the 56th, 57th. They are included in the TSC, but according to the Rules the MP has the right to deny this amendment. The thing is, they're the same, so I'm going to talk about two at the same time. It is said that citizens of Ukraine, who are constantly living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, have the right to vote in the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I don't think we need to get drunk and put enough into the text, and that's okay, and I suggest that we just put the 56th and 57th amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u173	I repeat that in the appendix that you have on your hands, the word "perpetual" is missing. And your argument taken into account, he was discussing yesterday on a temporary commission that was fully accounted for, there's no need to go back to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! Once again, I'm reminded of what I said to the co-chair of the Temporary Special Commission, which will confirm, I'm about to give the 64th Amendment to Klukkowski, which will confirm Klukkowski. These issues were discussed in detail yesterday, when a person has the right to participate in one or more elections. And today we're going to end up making these proposals, we're going to vote and we're going to confirm them. Please take 64 amendments to the Klukkowski word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u175	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Well, really, it's kind of an unfinished business with a previous amendment by my colleague Kostinuk, but I'm already taking advantage of the opportunity. It is the amendment 64, which refers to the second paragraph on page 13, on the military service. Yesterday, the Interim Special Commission decided to exclude this paragraph, but there is nothing in the document that is being distributed today. So I would still ask that the decision be made now, and that amendment was deleted for military service.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u176	We actually voted, if I'm not mistaken, yesterday to write it like this: the military service doesn't participate in the local elections, so we have to vote. I agree with you. And that's why there's a proposal or we're now voting what Yuri Bogdanovich is proposing, and I've just read it, or at the end of the day, by editing it, by commissioning the law to be passed, we're going to vote on it. I would suggest that everyone would now support the recording of this saying, "Army officers don't participate in the local elections." I would like you to support this proposal by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u177	A proposal is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u178	I'm asking you to support, all factions, this proposal. She hears it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u179	Vote. [[12:49:35.]] For-151
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u180	I think there's been a bit of inconsiderateness here, and I think we need to vote on that question again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Take the 64 amendment, it now sounds like: military servicemen who are not members of the respective territorial communities are not taking part in the local elections. It is suggested that it is easier to write: Military personnel do not take. Term services do not participate in local elections. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:50:25]] For 229 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 70th of Kostenyuk's paper. Please be determined. [[12:50:50]] For-74. 74th. The point is, once again, we're going back to those who have the right to vote, and here we are in Crimea. We're going to end up voting on all these amendments that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich was talking about. Smooth, 71st. Don't insist. Infantry, 73rd. Don't insist. You're a pervert, 74th. Don't insist. Costinuk, 75th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u182	The 75th amendment refers to the fact that a citizen's membership in the relevant territorial community is determined by his permanent residence in its territory. I suggest you add: no less than three months before the election. This would make it impossible for us to use all kinds of dirty technology, and so there is a request for this amendment to support it. But also, Adam Ivanovich, I suggested that we put the 56th, 57th amendment to the vote. I'll insist that you do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u183	With regard to the last amendment of Kostinuk 75 to the definition that the membership of the citizen of the respective territorial communities is determined by his residence in its territory for at least three months is to interfere with the prerogative of the Freedom of Movement Act and the free choice of place, the residence in Ukraine, the reference we make in this law. So I think, and the commission thought that if you duplicate another law, the more you can't compete with different laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u184	The 75th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Kostinuk is on the vote. [[12:53:03]] For-72 Overruled. 76th, Gunner. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u185	This is also defined, I have just called once again the Law on Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine. There's no need to vote here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u186	Please, the microphone of the miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u187	Alexander Alexanderovich, I don't understand motive in principle, because the amendment is purely technical. At least two years before the local elections. The registration is accepted, and this can be done, motivation and reference in accordance with the legal order. A purely technical edit that allows you to refine the lists better. I don't see the motivation for the deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u188	There's no objection, you can write it like that. But then every rule has to end with the words "in accordance with the law."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u189	Please, the 76th Amendment of the People's Deputy of the Hoornik is on the vote. [[12:54:19]] Z-87 Not supported. 77th Catherinechuk, please. 77, but it's essentially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, I think most of the national deputies are surprised by the decision when the Interim Special Commission assumed the functions of other committees. And in view of that, I would say that this bill was being worked on by a working group, by the Chief Legal Authority, and now we're practically following amendments that could be taken into account if there was more time to consider this bill. From now on, 77 revisions. It's written here, essentially. I'm looking at, let's say, the final edition, here, the membership of the citizen of the relevant territory in the community is determined by the place of residence in the territory. And I'm proposing an amendment -- they're determining their registration in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. These are different things: registration and residence. Nevertheless, we should proceed from the legislation that is now in existence and from the use of terminology that allows this article to be filled with a certain legal content. That's why it would be more right to register. I don't understand how that works.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u191	The temporary special commission did not assume any extra functions; it was governed by the Supreme Council’s decree that it played a role, and the Rules provide for the Main Committee on the subject. And your proposal is essentially included in the supplement that you have in your hands with reference to the Freedom of Movement Act and the free choice of residence, which takes into account the registration procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u192	Don't insist on Mikola Dmitrovitch. Yes, please, Bondarenko. Vote? Well, we're voting for 77 Katerinczuk. [[12:56:31]] Z-77 77 votes to 77. Not supported. 78th, Bondarenko, are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u193	In the world’s electoral legislation, especially in countries that have developed democracy and local self-government, particularly in Sweden, the electorate can participate in local elections, both in the local community where he actually resides, and in another, in another territorial community, where he, for example, has property, property. And in the presentation of his testimony to the right of property, whether to a residence or to a factory or to a land plot, he does not vote where he lives, but he votes where his property is. I think we can let the citizens of Ukraine do the same today. So I made this amendment with only one goal: to unify Ukraine's legislation on local elections with European legislation, where it works and works quite effectively. Because a citizen who owns property has a lot of interest in the functioning of a local council or local electoral authority in that territory, no less than where he resides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u194	The commission came from what is usually the same as in Sweden, but first the system of power must be done as in Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u195	It's the 78th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u196	I'll just finish thinking. But the whole point is that then it also includes attachments to those documents that are already foreseen when candidates are registered, add more documents. And if you insist on that, let's define by voting, it makes it a little bit more difficult to register.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u197	It's the 78th Bondarenko vote. [[12:58:41]] For-64 We're down to 64. 79th. Insomnia, are you insisting? Please, Bespalloma's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u198	Victor Yushchenka's block of our Ukraine, Kiev. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, this amendment is editorial, but I decided to insist on it after, for example, Mukachevo was trying to withdraw the candidate from the local elections for failing to name his school teacher or any such circumstance. That's why I don't think there's anything in electoral legislation. The point is that the fourth section foresees that citizens have the right to take other measures as defined in this and other laws of Ukraine. This and other laws determine many different measures. So I think it would be absolutely unnecessary to add after the words, as I suggest, that they can "watch elections and other pre-elections" and continue with the text. So that's one word, but it actually localizes this law, doesn't make it all right. I'm asking the commission to agree to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u199	I can't convince the entire commission right now, although your argument is convincing. Because now we need to convince the session room. And on the other hand, of course, we can write an impeccable law. But if there are people in power whose law is not written for, it is like Mukachevo. Here are some of the fellow journalists who rephrased Mollier, writing, "There's nothing worse to attack than an idiot who got to power." I think that's the essence of what's going on in some places. But in this case, let's let the session room support your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u200	I'm betting on the 79th draft of the National MP of Bespalogo. [[13:00:47]] Z-71 Not supported. The '80s, Blackwolf. Don't insist. None. Please, it's Blackwolf's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u201	Alexander Alexandrovich, Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you. You're an experienced party worker. Well, look, the members of the respective territorial community. Isn't a party center a filter? If we provide only members of this community in this party centre, this is the filter. If not, we break both laws: both parties and elections. The other one. You're proposing to get the aggrieved only from members of the territorial community. What, the head of a district organization can't come to the area to get pregnant for his candidates? This is ridiculous! Keep going. Even observation you limit to membership in the territorial community. What about international observers? They can, then, but can't a man from Kiev go to Chernigus and be an observer in another community? I think we need to clean up "a member of the respective territorial community," because it will always interfere with our further implementation of this law. It's going to be a total violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u202	I'm not just an experienced party worker, I'm a great intern. So I can say that there's a reason for what you're saying, partly. But it is the rights of those citizens who are associated with the relevant territorial community, other subjects are entitled, and they are taught later. So, I think only the session room can solve this discussion. Let's vote on your proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u203	I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of the 80th People's Deputies of the Blackwolf. Vote. [[13:02:48]] For-73 83rd, Infantry doesn't insist. Matvienkov. Copy that. Infantry, 85th, 86th. Obnoxious, 87th. Don't insist. Kostinuk, 88th. Please, it's Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! It's meant to be part of the sixth article of the 3rd. [[The article tells us that he does not have the right to vote in the local elections of Ukrainian citizens who are on trial in places of disqualification.]] Some citizen is condemned, he's marched into a completely different territory, into a completely different community, he can't participate in elections to this community or to a village or a village or a district or so on. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the second part of my amendment to the military service has already been voted on. The same situation would have to be voted in favour of citizens who are on trial in places where they were deprived of their liberty. But besides, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you broke the Rules when you didn't put the 56th, the 57th amendment I insisted on. I'm so suspicious that you're the author of that amendment and you don't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u205	Alexander Alexandrovich, this is in the end again what we discussed yesterday. These adjustments are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u206	The temporary special commission supports the proposal that prisoners cannot participate in local elections because they are not members of the local community. So I think that we're basically not even a norm for today's specific text, but in principle, a specific paragraph of the bill. vote. I would ask that you urge all deputies to vote that prisoners cannot participate in elections to local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u207	Is she in on what we completed yesterday?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u208	There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u209	Well, then we'll vote and count.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u210	Let's vote now so we don't doubt it. Let's vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u211	Let's now vote, but once again, my dear fellows, you and I have already identified ourselves as members of the military, and now it's the same thing as not having the right to participate in local elections. I'm asking you to support this amendment. Please vote. 88 revisions - for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u212	Please support me. [[13:05:54]] For 311
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u213	Correction to Costinjuka accepted. So don't criticize me anymore. Yes, Bondarenko 89, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u214	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". I'm asking you, Alexander Alexandrovich, to explain. I have amended the contingent of foreign military personnel. We've already found out, we've found out in the field service, but there are officers there, so will they participate in the local elections or not? Because, for example, we were not normal about them. How are those people? Can they vote or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u215	If they are on vacation, they will be, if they are not, they will not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u216	Do you insist on voting? If it's clear, he'll be on vacation, he'll have the right to participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u217	Officer, the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u218	And we've already ruled out the term. The '90s. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u219	Alexandre Alexandrovich, here again. I'd like us to come to some standard in terminology. Are there elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I mean, the Parliament of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by local elections? Whether we qualify them as individual positions and still have local elections. In this case, I wanted the article to open up what local elections were. So instead of the word "in the local elections," replace the words "in the elections of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, rural, rural, urban, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, rural, rural, district councils and rural, village, city heads." That is to say what these local elections are, because for me, for example, the elections of the Republic of Crimea Parliament are not exactly local elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u220	As far as I can remember, maybe I'm not accurate, you'll correct me, the Constitution of Ukraine applies the word "parliament" once only to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The word "parliament" does not apply to the Supreme Council of Crimea. So the elections are to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the other elections are local with all due respect and to the Supreme Council of Autonomy, but what we're not talking about here is the status of the Supreme Council and Autonomy, we're talking about the procedure for the formation of the authorities, the local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u221	Do you insist on voting? Please, Bondarenko's 90th amendment is voting. [[13:08:48]] For-81 Correction rejected. 92nd, Gladys. Don't insist. Ninety-three, Alexeyev. Don't insist. Polychuk, 94th, Cyril. Please, Politchuck's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u222	Kirilo Polisticchuk, Christian Democratic Party, faction of regions. Most of my amendments are included. And what's rejected, I don't deny it. So please don't keep looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u223	Thank you. Matvienkov, same thing. 99th Bondarenko. Are you insisting? Please, Bondarenko's microphone. Bondarenko, and then I'll go back to Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u224	I just wanted this amendment to establish the citizen's right not to participate in the elections. Because we're aware of cases where local executives have forced certain methods and bribes, and I'd say I'm just forcing people to participate in local elections. A citizen should have the legal right to participate in elections or not to participate in elections. That's what we don't have in this project. So I'm putting this right here for the sole purpose of protecting citizens from the possible pressure of executive bodies that sometimes drive people into these elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u225	Let's put Bondarenko's 99th amendment to the vote. [[13:10:54]] For-75 Not counted, rejected. 97th row. He insists. Now, now. 97th, Catherinechuk, Sobolev, partially counted. Which one of you? Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u226	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, our amendment is partially taken into account. It refers to what is written as only those citizens who have the right to vote. So I'm going to take this opportunity to get you all texted, because we've ruled out the right to vote for military service. So that, for example, as is the case in the article, for example, paragraph 3, where the document that identifies the person is a military ticket for military service personnel. Please delete and discard the text later on. And here I thank you for counting, so I don't ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u227	Thank you. I mean, it's clear that in the final edition of the Legal Office, technical and legal remedies will be taken into account. Up to 95. But there is Matthew. Well, please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u228	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. I would like to point out that 95 revisions do not refer to the majority system in all elections. Since we are self - centered with rural, village councils, as well as self - importance for the position of a rural, rural, or urban head, this 95 - fine should be taken into account, otherwise the rights of certain candidates will be violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I really propose to support this revision of Matthew, 95th, to take it into account, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u230	And the Interim Commission supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u231	Vote. [[13:12:55]] For 292 The edit of the National MP, Mathviennek, is included. Yes, Kostinuk. 100th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u232	It goes here to remove the following rule, that the use of violence, threat, deception, bribery or any other action that prevents the free formation and free will of the electorate is prohibited. I don't think it's an exercise, it's a declaratory warning. Responsibility for such violations should be provided for in the Criminal Code. That's why I'm going to insist that I vote for her because she's overloading the electoral law. But I would like to draw your attention to 56, 57 amendments. So the point is that the authors of these amendments are honourable MPs Martinyuk and Gavrish, and they probably agreed to the TSK and carried out this amendment in the table, and I have the right to insist, in accordance with the Rules, that this amendment be put to the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so please put 56, 57 amendments to the vote, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u233	I'm going back to the 56th, 57th Amendment. Your insistence, regarding the deletion of the word "from there," "permanently" is already accounted for, it's gone. We voted in the previous amendment, so it makes no sense to vote again. With regard to paragraph 2, parts, article 6 is indeed a repetition of the criminal code, but for the subjects who organize the electoral process, the commission thought that it was not in vain to remind them that they were responsible for law enforcement. If you insist on your choice, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u234	The 100th amendment is on the vote. [[13:15:06]] For-64 Once again, I remind Kostinjuku of the 56th and 57th lines. We agreed that when we're done, we're going to put these questions to a vote, because there's a whole series of comments that we mentioned yesterday on the TSC, which is about who has the right to participate in the elections. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u235	Adam Ivanovich, we counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u236	And we counted the part.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u237	There's no constant vote, and the reference is not a law that regulates the issue of citizens' registration. Therefore, there is no need to vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u238	Yes, please, 103rd Bespallian. Don't you insist? 104th Costinjuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u239	The 104th amendment refers to the fact that each electorate votes in the local elections personally and votes in favour of other persons or the transfer of voting rights to any other person is prohibited. I would just like to emphasize that not just a person, but that there are no curves and organizations, the basis for the electorate to have no illusions of taking this ballot, putting it in an envelope and sending it to an organization. So I propose that we vote on this amendment. But if you go back to the 56th, 57th Amendment, Alexandre Alexandrovich, notice this is about elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, not about elections, but about citizens living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Why do we focus on that? This is set out in the left column of the third paragraph of the article. And I'll tell you what: and because most people are walking now, most people have empty rows and don't get the right number of votes. So ask the majority of the deputies to take their jobs right now, just like all the other deputies, and to work properly. And put it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u240	Once again, I reiterate that citizens who reside in one area or another are determined in accordance with the Law on Freedom of Movement and the Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine. A reference to this law will be the norm of today’s law. And this gives people who are responsible for organizing elections, making lists of voters, and so forth, to be guided by these standards. I'm just asking you, don't go back to the 56th article, because they've already been voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u241	They've been voted. It's the 104th vote, Kostinyuk. [[13:17:52]] For-73 Not accepted. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you: 101st and 102nd, and where it comes from being away from military personnel, because you and I have already decided that military personnel are not participating, I would like to point out that we will make appropriate adjustments everywhere in the text. 106th, Bondarenko. What's that? 105th -- it's counted. Well, please, Catherinechuk, 105th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know a better expert in electoral law than Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. We all remember how the Law on the Elections of the President of Ukraine was passed: there was no practical observation. Yeah, he's not perfect. But he was prepared. And now we're doing this bill, with the 742 amendments that came in just two hours, we've forced the national MPs. And that shows the quality of this bill. As far as I'm concerned. "Each voter votes in person" is a very principled amendment. It's partly accounted for, I'm satisfied. Because what happens during the vote is that voters are asked to sell their ballots during the vote. Dear voters! Remember, when you sell your ballots, when you give them away, you give your future, your children’s future, the future of this country. Therefore, this amendment is sufficiently balanced, and it insists that each voter understands what he is doing with his ballot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u243	I propose to support this proposal by including the word "voice rights" or the ballot. In principle, I feel that this is the right thing to do, since carousels are organized by the constituencies of the particular subjects of the electoral process, and it seems that everyone seems to be convinced that it is an act that should be punished by law. I propose to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u244	Alexander Alexanderovich, I'm sorry, I mentioned you can't vote for this, stop. The fact is that the law allows a person who is sick and unable to carry out his or her own procedure to fill out a ballot paper on his or her own, this electoral bulletin gives someone to fill it in. So we shouldn't vote here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u245	No, that's how you can write "except for the cases provided for by this law" and all. Let's vote like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u246	There's an amendment to the 105th vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u247	105th with the words "or the ballot" after the word "voice" and the end of "except for the cases provided for by this law."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u248	The amendment is now being voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u249	"For" support, please. [[13:20:51]] For 124
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u250	Correction not accepted. Vladimir Bondarenko, 106th Amendment. Is Bondarenko insisting on her? Yeah. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u251	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You were a little absent in the room, and recently there were some instructions through the parliamentary pager, and he informed the main factions, obviously how the events would unfold further. I've got a lot of colleagues I'd like to know what scenario is going to be played today. That's what I want to do. And with regard to my amendment, I would like to say that the disabled who are among our constituents, especially the blind, should be guaranteed that they will have the right to choose. I do not understand why it is written that my correction in this regard is rejected. If it is included in other articles, if the legislation of Ukraine provides for the right to vote of persons with disabilities if they are physically unable to do so themselves, it is this amendment that allowed either relatives or doctors, or could even be added, that the members of the committees exercise this right of the citizen to his or her request. Why, then, is it rejected? Then write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u252	This amendment is taken into account in substance in other laws relating to the organization of voting. There, indeed, if a person cannot vote on his own, he is given help and is defined as.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u253	The 106th Amendment of Vladimir Bondarenko is to be voted on, page 21. [[13:22:43]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Amendment 107 - Does the Smooth Basil not insist? No, it's not. Mikola Kruglov, do you insist? A hundred. No, it's not. Thirsty Mikhail Vasilovich? No, it's not. Bogdan Kostinuk 110. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u254	Dear National Deputies! My amendment relates to the fact that the deputy and village, village, city head may also be the elected citizen of Ukraine, who, on election day, did not reach 18 years of age, as recorded in the same text, but 21 years of age. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you were gone, I want to draw your attention to the problem, to 56, 57 amendments, because on the right hand side and because the author of this amendment Adam Martinyuk and he doesn't want to put to the vote, and I want to reject this amendment. And I have the right to do so under the Rules. And the next time he doesn't put that question to a vote. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to put to the vote amendment 56th, 57th, they are the same, to the vote in order for the Supreme Council to determine the substance of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u255	Alexander Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u256	I have already answered five times that the amendment of Kostinuk is included in the content of the law. There's no right to go back to the vote. If he wants to reject these two amendments to the 56th and 57th, put it to the vote for rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u257	110th Amendment, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u258	The 110th amendment, he also in the past law insisted on raising the age price and so on. His right. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u259	The vote is amended by 110 Bogdan Kostinuk, page 21. [[13:24:48]] For-82 The decision is not taken. A similar amendment was made by Roman Tachach. Then there is no need to vote. Correction of the 112th Romana Tchacha. Are you insisting on her? Roman Tuck, microphone, please 112 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u260	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. You know, I want to go on with the arguments that Bogdan Kostinük didn't say about whether a member of parliament or a village head be a person who is 18 years old, and we suggest that we change it to 21 years. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. You have to understand that being a village head is very responsible. I understand that young people should go to power. But 18 years is too young for a person to run a community, a rural community. And the same is true for the amendment relative to five years. Anyone can come to a populace for a month or two to live here, and he's already claiming to take over the village head. It's too high a job. And yet I propose that this amendment be voted upon and that this person live in the appropriate territory for at least five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u261	Suggestions can be considered. True, if parents fail to reason, age will not help. But nevertheless, we can put the proposal of the weaver to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u262	The vote is amended by the 112th Roman Tucker, page 21. [[13:26:34]] For-82 The decision is not made. Amendment to the 113th Eugen Hoornik. Are you insisting on her? No, he doesn't. Oh, Eugene Gorenik, I'm sorry, I didn't see. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u263	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're told here all the time about some agreed proposals by the TSC that we have to vote on at the end. I'd like them to be given to the deputies. Because we haven't received them yet, I don't know what agreed proposals are going to be. And if we vote at the end of the bag cat, it doesn't fit the Supreme Council Rules. And for a specific 113th proposal. I still want to continue the argument and divide the MP of the local council and the village head. Well, a person has any experience. We've set a 35-year-old price for the President. This is not a violation of human rights. And for a rural, rural head, we want to choose a person who has no experience at 18 years of age. That's why I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u264	First of all, you're not holding a cat in a bag, you're holding a document from the Temporary Special Commission, which is given to you before the vote, and which is basically a legal edition of the rules that are now being considered. At the commission of the Temporary Commission, the working group, along with the Legal Authority, carried out such an editorial work. Regarding the age price, we have just voted. Of course, the country’s head is not the president, although the position is no less important. And if you're suggesting that by the time you're 21, it's enough to be a country head, not at the age of 18, I think that the commission, when you look at it, didn't, in principle, look at it, because we're hoping that the locals, say, are looking at who to pick their own heads. And I don't think they're going to choose a boy or a girl who's only 18 years old, although in exceptional cases it might be. Maybe a really talented person has citizenship rights, why not? So please let's determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u265	Amendment 113 of Eugene Hoornik, pages 21 and 22. [[13:29:21]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Amendment 114 Mikoli Catherinechuka. Sergey Sobolev will base it, and he will also be the author of this amendment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u266	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka's electoral block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I don't understand the logic of why our proposal for a clear record that citizens who have been declared ineffective in court have been rejected, and the same thing that is recorded in 70 articles of the Constitution that have the right to vote for citizens who have reached the age of 18 remains? Well, then let's follow one logic: if we link to article 70 of the Constitution, then we don't have to write that 18-year-old. If we're doing this and we're still writing that 18-year-old, we think it's very important to write that citizens who are incompetent are recognized by the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u267	You can vote. Logic is suggested by Sergey Vladislavovich. Even if we don't write that down, it doesn't conflict with the Constitution, because the Constitution has a higher status than the law. But let's vote in favour of this project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u268	The vote is amended by 114 national deputies Catherinechuk and Soboljev. [[13:30:54]] For 111 The decision is not taken. 115 repairs to Bogdan Kostinyuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u269	This amendment refers to the fact that a member of the rural, rural, urban head cannot be elected a citizen who is tried for committing a deliberate crime if this case is not executed or is not removed in accordance with the law. Now, I propose that the question of a case that is "unquenched" continue to be removed from the text. Because a man has committed a deliberate crime, he should not just go to the village, village and city council or the city council, even to the Supreme Council, I believe, and to the President of Ukraine. Judges should remember that they were judges. We don't have any political articles right now. But I would also like to, after all, Vladimir Mikhailovich argued that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich had agreed to the 56th, 57th amendment in order for you to put them to the vote. Please put these two amendments to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u270	Regarding the removal of the case, I think the entry in the right column is absolutely correct. If we write it as you suggest, it would run counter to the principles set out in the election law to the Supreme Council, and it would also create a host of collisions. When a person, for example, such as Kostinuk or Moroz, walks to the local authorities or to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they will be challenged, they will be tried, and then the trial will be removed because it will be seen as nonsense. Nevertheless, he no longer has the right to fly. And I'd like you and I to meet again in the next Parliament. Let us not insist on this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u271	The vote is amended by the 115th of Bogdan Kostinyuk. [[13:33:00]] For-59 Not accepted. The hungry do not insist on their correction. Blackwolf and Coval don't insist. Blackwolf, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u272	Alexander Alexandrovich, you said it wasn't "a whale in a bag," it was something else. Look, it's so carelessly done. So we take paragraph 4, article 3, and we read, "through the centre of political parties." Now we're taking Article 10, and it's all over the place, not the political party centers, but the political party organizations. So, as we're going to keep writing, are we going to take this into account? It has to be durable in the same style, because it's about the same thing, and the names are completely different. So I think the text is completely untouchable. And we need to use the terminology that has traditionally been developed in Ukraine, which is used by political parties in their statutes, which is used in the Political Parties Act, and all the way through "centres." That's why I'm proposing to clear the words "political party organizations to the locals" and replace "centres" as it goes at the beginning of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u273	If I'm not mistaken, I may be inaccurate in this judgment of my own, but there are organizations of political parties, including primary organizations, district organizations, district organizations, etc. That's why. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u274	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u275	Please! Therefore, the Legal Authority, in editing this bill, is obliged to bring it into conformity with other laws, as Chairman of the Supreme Council, after we have voted. This will be done without fail. Then we can. It's not a change, it's a legal order. Look at the Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u276	The vote is amended by the 118th National Deputies of Blackwolf and Coval. [[13:35:18]] Z-70. Correction not accepted. 120th. Mikol Petrovich is not insisting, I can't see. Tereshuk, 121st. Is he insisting? Please, it's Tereshuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u277	Considering that this and the following amendments do not fit into the accepted scheme, I'm taking them down. But I would like to point out that it is the will of most voters. But this and the following amendments I'm taking down all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u278	Thank you. 124th, Lebedivsky. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u279	Dear Chairman! Dear reporter! My amendment is designed to improve the content of the formulation of the very legal fee for those who exercise the right to nominate candidates. There is a list of district, district, city, city organizations. And I make it clear that these organizations should be consistent with the level of administrative division. Thus, this clear formulation will not give us the opportunity, as we have examples, to remove the election in previous elections by the courts, to have a vague formulation, which the Constitutional Court later refuted, but it was too late to correct. So I ask the presiding officer not to do so again, to clearly state who has the right to do so in accordance with this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u280	Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u281	With regard to this amendment, I want to say that in the following articles we are dealing with the question of whether the subject has a list of the administrative-territorial division. So that's where this particular question is reflected, and I don't think it can be voted on. And if you insist, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u282	A vote is taken on amendment 124 of the People’s Deputy of Lebedovsky. [[13:37:46]] For-53 The decision is not taken. It's not working. 125th, Bogdan Costinjuk. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u283	This amendment is, I would even say, an editorial but important editorial amendment, because this is about the right to nominate candidates to a deputy belongs to Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote, and this right is implemented through district, district, city political party organizations. So I suggest you put it right. So I want to make sure that the city's organizations don't have the right to go to the district level, to the candidates for the district council. Or, for example. There's a rural area to the district. And so it seems to me that if you put that word in, it's going to answer, the level is going to be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u284	The thing is, the word "appropriate" doesn't regulate these dependencies yet. And you read the left column, the right column contains your proposal, and there is no reference in the area, district, or organization. Other standards later provide for who is the subject of the nomination or election list. So you want to vote, and I would suggest that you do not vote on this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u285	Is the vote a hundred and twenty, doesn't it? The vote is off. 129 repairs to Vladimir Bondarenko. That's how it counts 126. Katerinczuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u286	Thank you for the word. 126 amendment, it's taken into account essentially. It refers to the right to nominate candidates and candidates for rural, rural, urban headship to the electorate. There is an article 10 that only those who have the right to vote have the right -- that's an important difference, and I completely agree with that, but I stress that the number of changes that the Supreme Council is considering today in this regime is a fairly unquality bill. And I think that every political force that votes in favour of this bill will take responsibility for its future with regard to party building. And I'm convinced that this bill will be evaluated by the electorate and appreciated by the deputies of the local, village and city councils, they'll evaluate it. And I think that if we're now approaching in this mode, the aural regime, accepting the principles of a question from a voice or.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u287	From the temporary commission, I can say that by appreciating this law, the voters will of course pay particular attention to the fact that many of your suggestions have improved it. And so when they're positive about it, it's going to apply directly to you, too, Mikola Dmitrovich, so I think people will figure it out, we'll have smart people and we'll get them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u288	It's the 126th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u289	It is essentially not necessary to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u290	Alexander Alexanderovich, allow me to vote or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u291	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u292	The MP insists, and I will put the vote to the vote. The amendment of 126 national deputies, Catherinechuk and Soboljev, is being voted on. [[13:41:27]] For-67 The amendment is not counted. 129th Bondarenko Correction. Are you insisting on her? Please, Volodymyr Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u293	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, I am also considering the Law on Elections of the President and the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, and I insist on this law all the time that the terms used in these laws should still be structured into a separate chapter. So we're talking about what election is. We're determined and we're still working on commissions, different positions of legislation. So somehow we've spread the basic definitions of the law in its structure and it's very difficult to navigate. In my opinion, you have to put this in a separate article, if not in this law, then at least in the future in the code. Because when it's there and there, it's hard to work with these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u294	I agree with you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Let us adopt this law and immediately sit down for the election code, where we will reflect everything as you think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u295	Amendment 129 of Vladimir Bondarenko, page 24. [[13:42:57]] For-67 Correction not supported. 130th. Adam Ivanovich does not insist on Martinyuk. 131st, Bogdan Kostinjuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u296	The 131st amendment is also kind of editorial, because just think about it. The electoral process is based on the principles of legality and the prohibition of illegal interference. The very term "legality." prohibits illegal interference. So I think it's an editorial amendment. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm going back to the 56th, 57th Amendment. At least one of these two is put to the vote. This is my requirement under the Rules. Why are you so neglectful of this requirement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u297	I'm not ignoring your request. The point was that when I arrived after meeting a delegation from Libya, Amendment 124 had already been voted on. I keep following the text. And every time we return to some requirement, eventually it'll be out of procedure, we'll come back if we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u298	Costinuk’s offer can be implemented. But the word "banning" is the illegal intervention of any process, the electoral process, I think it's necessary to write it down. This is one of the basic principles of the law -- democratic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u299	Amendment 131 of Bogdan Kostinuk is put to the vote. [[13:44:32]] For-59 No correction supported. Correction of 133rd Bogdan Kostinjuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u300	The correction is also editorial. It's kind of a publicity image, it's still a Soviet image. A suggestion to replace it with "publicity and openness," and "proverbs" is kind of an old-fashioned concept. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, regarding this 56th, 57th amendment. I understand that you came later, so at least make a comment there to Adam Ivanovich that he did not put this amendment to the vote at the proper time. And I'm not going to take it out now, and I'm going to end up offering it in different ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u301	All right, let's make sure he's not guilty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u302	There's nothing to put on. I'll say it again. 56th, 57th. Kostinuk's proposal is to delete the word "always". This is taken into account, and there's nothing in the right column. The amendments he's talking about are the changes of Gavrish and Martinyuk, which are included in the right column, I repeat. I'm talking to you, Bogdan, don't do this again!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u303	Amendment 133 of Bogdan Kostinyuk is being voted on. [[13:46:08]] For-69 Correction not supported. 134 revisions. Anatoly Matvienko does not insist. Yes, Bogdan Kostinuk, 137th, please, if you insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u304	A small editorial bill: I suggest that in the text where "the equality of all candidates in the deputies, candidates in the rural, rural head" insert "appropriate" because it makes the impression that both the candidate for the position of the village head and the city head are all equal. But they can't be equal because they claim to be different positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u305	The temporary special commission, tasking the working group with the Legal Office yesterday to consider these proposals, formulates this article as follows: equality of the rights of all candidates and corresponding candidates for the position of rural, rural, urban head. So your offer counts. We'll vote on it at the end. In addition, look, we have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u306	An amendment shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u307	No, you don't have to bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u308	Amendment 137 shall be put to the vote. [[13:47:34]] For-72
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u309	Well, we have to vote yes, but the other one is full.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u310	Correction not supported. Let's move on. Matthew, 139. Don't you insist? Yuri Carmazin?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u311	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of the constituency of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question, in the first reading, was it accepted that paragraph 6 "Freedom of electoral agitation of equal access to the media." Now they're added regardless of their form of ownership. Correctly added, but should have added another "for excluding the media, which are the organs of political parties." [[blocks]] Why? Because, of course, it's not bad if the printed body, for example, gives the word of the Party of Protectors of the Motherland. But to make it mandatory, it's absurd, it's in "Friends" that you have to print completely the opposite things, etc. And that's why it has to be written that "except for the media, which are the bodies of political parties." [[blocks]] And I'd like you, Alexander Alexanderovich, to support this, and I'm asking you to support this entire hall. You have the media, you know, that's the logic of the political struggle right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u312	The law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies is written as proposed by Yuri Anatoliyovich. I'll say it again. The Law on Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as proposed here by Yuri Anatoliyovich, is written down, so in order to bring it into line, I am convinced that we need to support this proposal made by Yuri Anatoliyovich. I mean, except for the media belonging to parties or blocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u313	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the amendment to the 138th amendment that was just made by the Karmazin People's Deputy, adding, "except for the media, which are the publications of political parties and blocs."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u314	"For" has to be voted. [[13:49:57]] For 207
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u315	Correction not accepted. Amendment 141. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u316	Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear friends, this amendment that I'm introducing touches on a much deeper understanding of equality issues. We're talking about local elections. And it can't be a single sentence that ensures equal rights for citizens in these elections. Because equality is ensured in the middle of one community, equal citizens. In terms of the other community, they're not exactly equal: some choose 50 deputies, others choose 20-30 deputies, so their equality is very questionable. So I was just making an amendment to achieve equality in the middle of one community or one territorial unit. This will then ensure real equality. In fact, equality between members of different communities cannot be ensured, even because there is such a record, the fourth point: the equality of the rights of the subjects of the electoral process. So, I think we need to expand this a little bit. And that will be understood correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u317	Well, please, you can vote like that. But we came out of the thing about equality of law, and no more. But you regulate this right because you belong to a particular citizen of the community. So this is self-evidently because of other procedures that apply to rosters, nominations, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u318	The vote is amended by the 141st National Deputy Bondarenko. Page 25 and 26. [[13:52:07]] Z-71 Correction not supported. Amendment 145 of Bogdan Kostinyuk. Microphone, please. And 146 at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u319	This amendment is about, but in the 145th amendment it's about that the electoral process involves stages such as making electoral lists or party lists, as we speak. [[We will separately vote on these amendments, consider]] I think that the process of making these lists should be regulated and it should be part of the electoral process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u320	This is the first item on the list of voters, in the right column. The compilation of party lists is referred to another article on nominations. And this is a function of a party or a block, not the subjects of the electoral process that are responsible for the electoral lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u321	Don't you insist? Are you insisting? Then there is Amendment 145 of Bogdan Kostinyuk. [[13:53:32]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Amendment 146. Now, after the 146th amendment. Amendment 146 of Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u322	It is proposed that the electoral process be completed not only by the official publication of the results of the local elections but also by the recognition of the responsibilities of elected deputies or city heads and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u323	Shall we vote her, Alexander Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u324	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u325	Amendment 146 of Bogdan Kostinyuk, page 20, is put to the vote. [[13:54:30]] For-68 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues! We continue our work for 15 minutes. Please, Roadside.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u326	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have been working intensely for over three hours, but we have considered 140 amendments. I have an offer and a request to support it. It is almost tradition to continue our work until this bill is under consideration so that we do not break and then not mention what has been voted on. Request for a vote, reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to continue working until the bill is considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u327	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We went on for 15 minutes. In order for us to continue working until the issue is concluded, we need to make an appropriate decision at the morning session on this procedural issue. I am voting on this proposal to continue working until the issue is closed. Before the question is completed. [[13:55:39]] For 255 Decision taken. Yes, Amendment 148 Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrovich and Sobolev, please. Sergey was sore. microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u328	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." I'm addressing, first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, where is the question? You're interrupting it. What was the number of the amendment before that? Oh, about my correction. I don't understand why it's not counted. If we leave the entry in article 12, paragraph 1, it will mean that the general record of voting rights in the local elections. Our amendment, on the other hand, makes it clear enough that it is registered according to the regulations of the law in force. Because when we write a general record of all those who have the right, we only have to define those who have the right to a given community as it is in a given territory, as defined by law. So in my opinion, our record is much more accurate, I would like to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u329	You can insist on that. However, in part 3 of article 3, which you have in addition, this question is being settled. However, if you insist on voting, please. Although there is another point, Yuri Klukkowski says it at a meeting of the commission, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u330	Yes, Klukkowski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u331	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, indeed, the editorial in the right column can't be accepted because it's not about the electorate who's taking part in the single election. For each elector, for each type of election that will take place, for every rural, every city, every district council will have its own electorate. And the elector who takes part in the elections in this village, in the neighboring village, is not a voter. So this general formulation, as it's now written in the right column, can't be. You have to go back to the left column or you have to count the 148th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u332	So I'm asking you to back up on behalf of the commission because we've really discussed this issue there, the 148th amendment as a rule to be translated into the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u333	It's a 148th amendment to the vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u334	Please support me. Support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u335	Please vote. [[13:58:20]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Amendment 149, please. Blackwolf is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u336	Alexander Blackwolf, "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Alexandre Alexandrovich, well, this is an example of how this commission should not have been entrusted, how it does everything carelessly. Well, it's a mistake. They were the ones who made the mistake of printing. My amendment is not to Article 12, paragraph 4, but to Article 22. So when it's 22nd, I'm asking you to consider this article. And now I want to go back to my 147th amendment, where the words "members of the respective territorial community" are deleted. So I want to tell you, this is where we deleted this article, and in article 3, we didn't delete it. And we have a complete contradiction. Here we have citizens, members of the respective territorial community, who have the right to vote, and still have the right to vote. And here, this article 12, which details all of this, subjects of electoral law, we have removed. And we write: Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote in local elections. I mean, thank you for taking this amendment into account. But let's go back to my 80th amendment, to article 3, this can no longer be done in an editorial way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u337	I've just referred to part three of her article, where the question is settled relatively. And I said, just a minute, And you have the plugin in your hands that we're voting on, and you're going to support this proposal because you insist on it. Regarding negligence, it is your right to appreciate the work of members of the Temporary Special Commission and no more. However, your offer of 147 is contrary to a proposal made by a wise 148th, which was not supported today by the MPs. Then the question arises: To whom do you present your claims?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u338	A vote is taken on the amendment of 149 members of the People's Republic of Blackwolf and Kowala. Next, yes, you will. [[14:00:38]] For-39 Correction not accepted. Amendment to 150. Black-haired, please, microphone. It's all working. Without a musical escort, we're tired of MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u339	Okay. Alexander Alexanderovich, once again, 147 counts. Not counted in the '80s, which says the same thing, just nine articles earlier. And now the difference between the third article and the twelfth article, which no legal administration will correct. Now for the 149th amendment. When we're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u340	We've already voted 149.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u341	About the local head election, we say we have to know him at least a few months before we vote for him. And when we're talking about the political party centre that's putting the deputies up to the district council, how much we have to work on this facility in the area. The law doesn't say anything about that. So I propose to introduce one year. You want less, let's do less. But this is a very serious question. This is a very serious question, because the media will be created just before the election, the day before the election. And that's a violation. To Parliament, we choose only those parties that are registered, and the local elections can work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u342	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u343	The point is that the parties under the Electoral Law to the Supreme Council, which exist at least one year before the time of the vote, have the right to submit to appropriate power lines. And perhaps, and obviously, to fit in, you can predict here by referring to your amendment. On the other hand, let's say, let's say we vote in support of your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u344	An amendment to the vote is made by 150 national deputies of the Blacksmith and the Koval People’s Deputy, pages 27 - 8. [[14:02:54]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 151, Alexeyev doesn't insist, does he?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u345	There's one detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u346	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u347	The point is that according to the Law that we passed by the Supreme Council, I refer to the Blacksmith MP, it's not about registration, it's about legalization. And there is another principle now applied to the registration of local organizations. So it wasn't exactly set up. And the 35th article also mentions this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u348	Sergei Tereshuk, 152 insists, doesn't he? No, I can't see. Yes, Bogdan Kostinuk, 153 revisions. He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, this is also an editorial amendment. The point is that the subjects of the electoral process should be observers from local parties, blocks, and subjects of the electoral process. I propose that the word "official" be removed so as not to introduce the status of any official observers. What do we have? The observers are ordinary, the observers are official, and so are the differences between them. And in order for there to be no confusion, I propose to introduce this amendment and delete the word "official."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u350	The temporary commission did not consider it necessary to do so. You can treat it differently here, but let it be decided by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u351	Amendment 153 by Bogdan Kostinyuk is being voted on. [[14:04:33]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Amendment 154, Catherinechuk and Sobolev Mikola Catherinechuk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that most of the political groups represented in Parliament have the word "democratic" or "democracy". We understand that it's impossible to look at democracy without, say, creating a civil society. And the very element of this civil society is not only political parties, which, of course, are the link between voters and authorities, but I think they are public organizations. In our amendment, we propose that article 12 of the electoral process involve official observers from public organizations, official observers from international organizations, journalists, media, television companies, and agencies. We will not insist on this amendment in view of the fact that without moving forward on electoral legislation, on electoral procedure towards democracy, all your declarations remain beautiful words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u353	As for the 154th amendment, of course, I'm not talking about the entire commission, but I'm speaking about myself right now. They're official observers from a public organization, and that's an option that can be included. But journalists cannot be the subject of the electoral process, and they have another function. Thus, the Temporary Commission evidently rejected the amendment in general. But it can be determined by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u354	The amendment of the 154 people's deputies, Catherinechuk and Sobolev, is being voted on. [[14:06:43]] For-59 Correction not accepted. It's a 155th amendment. Bondarenko Vladimir Dmitrovitch insists? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u355	Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. I support my colleague, Nicholas Catherinechuk, about the fact that in the local elections we cannot consolidate the democratic participation of civil society representatives in the electoral process. Well, if in elections to the Supreme Council we don't allow anyone there to observe that this chemistry can be distributed to that level of elections, then maybe we should at least stop by giving the local level, the subjects, the recognition of the electoral process by both the trade unions and the public organizations and the self-organization of the population, who are generally interested in democratically holding elections and in giving the observation a more refined, clean result of these elections, not the aggression that is being done today. And there's a note. We are all witnesses today, not of the Law on Elections of Local Authorities, but of proponents of considering this law. It's all settled, people come in here, they call, they say what to do, and everything's done according to their script. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u356	What Vladimir Dmitrovitch says about the content of the law makes sense. But on the one hand, more loyally, it would be necessary to give the law the admission of public organizations to the electoral process as subjects, but on the other hand, if we write it down right now, the authorities will create so many public organizations here that the party representatives will not be there, from the other subjects of the electoral process. Sadly, our reality is so. Let's work together to improve the electoral law and other elements of the system, the organization of the system of state life, the state authority -- and then we will restore these issues as necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u357	There's an amendment to the 155th Volodymyr Bondarenko vote. [[14:09:01]] For-67 Correction not supported. Amendment 158. Mikola Catherinechuk, are you insisting on her? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u358	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. It's about making amends. Article 13 of the bill reads as follows: "Organization of the election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads shall be conducted openly and publicly." Unfortunately, somehow this amendment is rejected. But we still need to make a legislative definition of what is "the local election." And I don't think that's the election of deputies. The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea may be regarded as such. I think we need a separate law. And as I return to the motivation for today's consideration of this bill, I would like to ask the subjects to sign the political agreement why there were no social issues in this political agreement, why there were no issues of pension increases, why there were no questions of consideration of the minimum wage, and why there were only questions of a narrow party direction. Why we keep busy just arranging our own interests, not our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u359	I don't think the end of Nicholas Dmitrovitch's lineup has anything to do with this law. Where we will consider pension and social protection laws, then we will have a discussion. And I don't think we're going to be in position here. And as for this item, what you're saying in your proposal is fully reflected in the law, it's about these choices, not about any other ones, so the right column fully takes into account your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u360	Amendment 158 shall be put to the vote. Authors of Catherinechuk, Sobolev [[14:11:14]] For-56 Correction not supported. 160 revisions. Bogdan Kostenjuk. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u361	This amendment states that part 13 of part 2 of article 13 should be made known to the electorate boards about their composition, location, work, and beyond, and that the population should be informed of the results of the local elections as well as of the outcome of the vote. So I suggest that this part be completed by the following, that the responsibility for incorrect information or its absence rests on the head of the election commission or on the person who replaces it. The project provides that the election committee informs that, and I say that the commission is a collective body. There's no such thing. Whoever misreports some minor information - there is no extreme, and most importantly, that the results of the elections that we have in Ukraine, no man, no member of the business commission has been responsible in criminal order for the falsification of these elections. That's why I want these rules to be provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u362	Please vote on this amendment. It is not too expensive, but the peremptory nature of all norms provides for the observance of this law, the application of a literal law, and any deviation is violated and punished in accordance with other laws, the Criminal Code, in particular. But the reason is not because it is not called to account that an imperfect electoral law is wrong. The reason is different, and you know that reason. Let us correct that reason. And it's criminal in today's power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u363	The 160th amendment of Bogdan Kostinuk is being voted out. [[14:13:29]] For-48 No correction supported. Correction of the 162nd Bondarenko. Is Bondarenko insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u364	With this amendment, I wanted to reduce the deadline for determining some of the circumstances after the actual elections. Because the faster the results are published, the less their impact will be on the side that is active during the election period. We are now witnessing the interesting behavior of individuals in this room. We were working on the law, there were no three people here who already have some pager, drum, and zarber in the parliamentary towers. As these people appeared in the hall, the situation changed. There was a proposal that was quickly put to the vote. I would, by the way, point out that we need to create a special commission of inquiry, which the Roadmaster wrote down and where, who gave bribes, where and to whom the law would have been broken. I would like to find out because this stain is on each one of us today. There are rumors on the Internet that Alexander the Road has such interesting information. First of all, someone was obviously violating the Constitution in relation to the people's deputies, writing them down, let's think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u365	Apparently, the MP was not insisting on his amendment, he was now expressing an opinion about another. Therefore, other adjustments can be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u366	Amendment 162 of Vladimir Bondarenko, page 30, is put to the vote. [[14:15:18]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 164 amendments, please, Mikola. Don't insist, all right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u367	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-06-m0.u368	Then 166 counted, 167 counted, 168 counted, 169 counted, 170 corrected, we got this amendment and we're going to take a break. If there's no objection? The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
