ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:19]] A total of 437 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Dorogunts' Sergey Ivanovich and the Chubarov Refata Abdurahmanović. Let us welcome them and wish them creative success and good health. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with the Rules, I announce the formation of the "One Ukraine" faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the Democratic Initiative Group. People's power." The faction included 17 national deputies. The leader of the faction was Houbsky Bogdan Volodymirovich. The authorized factions were Bandurka, Gurova, Demjochina, Mokrousov, Osik, and Remenuka. The composition of the "One Ukraine" faction is: the national deputies Bandurka, Hubsky, Gurov, Demöchin, Zadrodno, Klimpush, Klimpush, Kolesnik, Mokrousov, Neciporuk, Osika, Pravdenko, Rozwadowski, Rajkov, Remenuk, Svatkov, Toločko, Yukhnovsky Oleg. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by a group of deputies to announce their work on the previous day. On September 21, with the agenda, 19 bills and two draft decrees were discussed, and one was considered further. In total, 18 bills and three draft decrees were considered, two were adopted in general, not adopted, i.e. rejected by the Supreme Council of Four, adopted in the first reading of nine, directed at re-reading one and submitted to consideration two, adopted two decrees and rejected one. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'd like to ask the factions and groups to submit their statements, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Borschewski from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, voters, I would like to inform you that today at seven o'clock in the morning in the town of Dnepropetrovsk near the Lower Provost Pipe Plant, owned by Interpaipe, security at 70 metres from the plant has severely impeded the advocacy work of the National Deputy Bondarczuk, twisted his hands, despite his being a national MP. The police intervention alone did not allow for the continuation of these actions and more serious consequences. On my behalf and on behalf of the People's Deputy Bondarczuk, please consider my statement as an official request to the Attorney-General's Office to investigate and punish those responsible for the grave violation of Ukrainian law and the Law relating to the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u3	Okay. Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention again. I announced our nominees today, but I did not tell you that Sergio Ivanovich Droguncsov was 75 years old today! So let us once again welcome and wish you long years of life and fruitful parliamentary and political, social activity. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, there have been inquiries from the national deputies of Ukraine. Jury SOLOMATANA to the President of Ukraine in connection with the delay of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of July 6, 2004 on the reorganization of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency situations and on the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and the State Committee on Disaster Management. I'm voting on support for the request. [[10:07:58]] For-138 Request not supported. Oleg Tajnibok is with the President of Ukraine on the illegal transfer of state property to the Glycinia Hospital of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The board of directors of the President of the Russian Federation. I'll bet you a vote on your request. [[10:08:35]] For-182 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:58]] For a hundred and Request not supported. Vladimir YAVORISKI - President of Ukraine for the cynical comments of Vice-President Vasil Paziv on the causes of the poisoning of the leader of "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenk, who testify to the moral level of leadership of the President's Administration. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:31]] For 210 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:53]] For 227 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on corruption, violation of existing legislation by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine by Bilokon and Chief of Internal Affairs in the Zakartat region of Warsaw. [[Mihovich, Baloga, Vernigora, School]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:31]] For 201 Solution accepted, request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:10:55]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Mr. Andry Derkac to the President of Ukraine, Head of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on monitoring the implementation of legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine to guarantee freedom of speech and non-interference in the activities of the media, the inviolability of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:11:34]] For 247 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:11:56]] For 249 Decision taken. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal acquisition of closed-circuit airline Airworld fees for access to the Borispol Airport stop of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens who have no relation to the authorities. Vladimir SKOMAROVSKI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the broadcasting of the “5 channel” television programmes in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the illegal transfer of state ownership of Ukraine to the Administration of the President of the Russian Federation. [[Glycinia boarding house, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Orenda city-type village]] Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for repair work on the municipal property of the city of Chernigova. Ms Sergia CHICHANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of the debt on salary to employees of the Sevastopol State Enterprise “Atlantic”. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the improper response of the executive authorities to the appeal of residents of the village of Brilovka of the County of Herson regarding the critical condition of the Grogada Housing Fund. John STANDS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the destruction of one of the most promising youth camps of the “Young Guard” in Odessa. Leonidas CERNOVECH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of budgetary legislation. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that took place in the group of the central district pharmacy No. 216 of the city of Jenakiyev Donetsk. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the necessity of repealing article 68 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2004. Mr Tomič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to resolve the issue of gasification of the villages of Petrushka and Karashina Korsun-Shevchenkov region of Cherkas region. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to pay the right costs to the victims of the Chernobyl AES accident. Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the construction of a new building at the Library of the Lower State Teachers' University of Gogol. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the ignoring of the Ministry of Finance for the problems of depressed mining cities in the drafting of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget. Vladimir MATVIEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of the order of the restructuring of the state-owned enterprise “Sudna Budnívní vlaža 61 communnar” in the city of Mikolayev. Jaroslav KENJOR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the social crisis in the youth camp “Young Guard” in Odessa. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the constitutional and social protection of persons with disabilities. Mr. Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Committee on the Budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2005 to complete the construction of social projects in the city of Raven. Vassila ONOPENCA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of the Republic Clinic. YURIA SIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the destruction of a unique natural reserve facility, the South Bug Canyon, where the Boogo-Gard Palace of Zaporozhye Sichi was located. Anatolia KLIMINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of social security to the families of military personnel who died in Afghanistan while carrying out an international duty. Yuri BOYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the completion of the gasification of the villages of Korniyivna and Nedra Barishiv region of Kiev. Mr. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of knowingly ignoring the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, language legislation, the law on public service by officials, such as the Head of the Central Election Commission of Kival, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Kostiv, the Head of the State Treasury Fund of Chechchev, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Azarov. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir JAVORIY, for reasons of populism claims to increase pensions to a minimum of living, which are aimed at deceiving the electorate, the result of which will be an even greater impoverishment of the unprotected population. Victor YUSCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of the town of Hust Zakarpatsk for water supply. Michael Loboda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on housing for the inhabitants of Kyiv Zalewski. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikolia Azarov, on the financing of the reconstruction of individual socio-cultural sites of the population of the Hornostiv region of the Hersonian region. The Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine's Ministry of Finance, is under the rule of law on the factor that limits the financial capacity of local budgets and the implementation of important social programmes. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the financing of the expenditure of the Ukrainian State Budget for the construction of housing for military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Paul MATIJENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikoli Azarov, for the extra-curricular payment to senior citizens of property lost in radioactively contaminated areas. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Viennese Regional Public Administration for non-response to the MP's request for unlawful actions by the director of the private enterprise “Star” in the village of Bilousovka-2 in the Vinnitsk region. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on violations of the administrative and financial arrangements of the open shareholders association “Kyivska Building and Installation Train “Schlakhbud”. [[CONNOVALUE, BACHTEIVA, SAFIULLIN, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] JURY OF THE ORBS to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the law in the search and arrest of a citizen of the city of Kyiv, accused of article 307 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the need to verify individual facts relating to the construction of housing for military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the National Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine for the brutal violation of Ukraine's land and environmental legislation, and machination of land by the Kyiv City Council on the site of the park and park art of the National National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. RAISES OF THE rich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation in connection with the cessation of water supply to the district utility from the wholesale retail trade of "Hersonprodressi". Mr. Ivan Mihovič and Mr. Victor BALOGA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on corruption, violation of the current legislation by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine by Bilokon and Chief of Internal Affairs in the Zakarpatsk region of Warsaw. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper investigation of a criminal case involving a traffic accident. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the reasons for the arrest of a citizen of Lazarus in connection with his political activities. Jurya KOSTENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the gang attack of members of the protection firm Chris Harrison on the inhabitants of the village of Ravne in the Hersonian district. Georgia BUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian constitutional rights. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of officials of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to an application for a criminal offence against Kravchenk and Pukač, as persons involved in the commission of crimes provided for in articles 146 and 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the convicted and employees of the Kagarlic Correctional Colony No. 115 of the Kyiv region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in the investigation of a criminal case involving a road accident that resulted in the death of two minors. Stepan BULBI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the complaint of abuse by officials in the distribution of housing for victims of the Chernobyl disaster. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to execute a court decision on the renewal of a citizen of Vitov in the position of the Starojadian village head of the Czerniewecki district. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds that the authorities of the Barezov district of Odessa have failed to respond to violations of Ukrainian land law. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of power by officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the city of Brovary and the Brovary Office to combat organized crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the Kyiv region. [[CAMERINCHUK, SANDRA, PINZENIK,]] LUKYANENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful refusal of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the region of Ivano-Frankiv to give a copy of the verdict in Jaroslav Lesiv’s case. John STATION to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine by the head of the joint venture “Drugwater Channel” and the refusal of a criminal case by the prosecutor of the city of Drogbych on the fact that the company has been checked by the controlling authorities. Mr. Ivan Mihovič and Mr. Victor BALOGA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the abuse of office as head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration and head of the Zacarpathian District Public Administration, a grave violation of existing legislation on the protection of the environment. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures of prosecutorial response in connection with the illegal decision of the Odessa City Council of 26 August 2004 on the construction of an anti-tubular sanatarium “Arcadia” by a limited liability association “Breg-Budvinvest” housing complex “Mechanics of Ukraine” of the land area of recreational destination in the Black Sea Coast Zone area and the purposeless use of the money of the Odessa City Environmental Protection Fund. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the Elimination of Serious Violations of Constitutional Rights of Ukrainian Citizens, admitted by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs during mass detentions on 17 September 2004 by SOS participants in the city of Kiev. Mr Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the urgent use of procuratorial response measures in connection with the obstruction of the activities of Ukrainian national deputies by officials of the First National Channel of Ukraine during the live broadcast on September 18, 2004. Georgia BUIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Bar Association on the facts of violations of Ukrainian law, and the abuse of legal status for violations of legal ethics. Andrija DERKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information on the Inaction of the Office of the Attorney-General on the Acts of Counterfeiting Workers of the Security Service of Ukraine to prevent the activities of journalists and officials of the closed association of the “Telegraph Information and Publishing Group” and the use of investigation and operational units of the Ukrainian Security Service with a view to violating the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Oleg NEMIROVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the abuse of office as deputy to the head of the Kiev State Administration on land issues. Mr. KARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of the establishment of illegal, non-verbal, day-to-day monitoring of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and members of his family. VICTOR BORSCHEVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the false answer to a request for illegal acts by individual officials of the executive service of the Kirov District Office of Justice of the city of Dnipropetrovska in the execution of a judicial decision. Vladimir NOVAK to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine regarding the construction of the railway station at the Greeks’ node station of the South West Railway. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of ZAZ-1105 dental care to the Žitomir district of the Žitomir region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for negligence and delay on the part of officials of certain branches of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in investigating the falsification by the Politicalist of the Union of Anarchists of Ukraine for establishing documents for the registration of Kyivo, the Holy Communion of the Regional Organization, which voluntarily provokes the use of personal data by persons who are members of the LXM. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the violation of the legal rights of shareholders of the closed-circuit company "Juniost" Cherkas. Anatolya RACHAN — to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the violation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence’s existing legislation on the transfer to municipal property of former military towns. John MIHOVIĆA, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the need for competent independent expertise, motives and circumstances of the death of the Rector of the Uzhgorod National University of Vladimir Slivka. The RUDENKA Genadia is to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for failure to implement the State Programme "School Bus" in Mirrodski, Velikobogačanski, Zinkowski, Kotelevski and. to the district of Poltava. Vladimir FILENKA and Bogdan KOSTINJUK — to the Minister of Health, Head of the Central Election Commission — regarding the violations of electoral legislation and the Code of Laws on Work in the Harkov and Ohtirka cities of health institutions. Gennady RUDENKA to the Minister of Health regarding the non - provision of medical equipment to the central district hospitals of Zinkowski and Velikobogachansk. Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the assistance of the Goshchen district center of children, youth and young people from the computerization of the educational center. YEUGENA HIERNIKA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine regarding the lifting of the ban on overnight passenger buses. Igora ALEXIJEVA, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the unsatisfying condition of the immovable property and territory of the former military in the Alchevsk Lugansk region. Vladimir NOVACA, Minister of Defense of Ukraine, on the facts of the illegal actions committed by the management of the House of Officers number 36 of the Hmmelnick garrison. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI - TO THE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIONS OF THE U.K.A. Mr. Vladimir SKOMAROVSKI - Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the purpose of covering up the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Winnitsky area of individuals who untraceable cards about the candidate's candidacy for President Viktor Yushchenk. Gregory OMELČENKA, Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the verification of the assignment of military rank to the formerly convicted Victor Yanukovic. Ivan PLUJA - to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the joint Ukrainian-German society Dott-Kaufman and Ko. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of military towns in the cities of Ivano-Frankivsk and Supervirna to the area of district administration. People’s Deputies’ Groups to the Ministry of Health on the facts of the provision of official information on the state of health of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. [[COLONIANS, TURMANS, HORLOWS, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities concerning the lack of a proper response from the housing and utility services of the city of Zaporozhye to the complaints of residents. Stepan BULBY to the Head of the Poltava District Administration for the violation of the Lubnigaz business requirements of article 12, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, concerning the granting of benefits to former disabled military personnel for utility services. ANATOLYA VIAL to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the facts of violations of Ukrainian law, abuse of legal status, and violation of legal ethics. Gregory OMELČENA to the Press Secretary of the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate submission of copies of judgements and other documents on past crimes and crimes by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. Alexander HUDIM to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the reasons why the Ministry of Finance has delayed the implementation of the World Bank loan to improve the water supply of the city of Lviv. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the egregious facts of the abuse of members of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Wallin region of the investigation of the Mayan S.H.I.E.L.D. case. Thus, respected colleagues, 90 questions were put out. Factions: "Our Ukraine" is 28, the Communist faction is 28, the "Regions of Ukraine" is 6, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is 6, the "Democratic Initiatives - The People's Government" group is 1, "Trug Ukraine" is 5, the "Socialist Party of Ukraine" is 2, the "Timoshenko" is 10, "Postfactional" is 4. [[united]] What's the procedure? Pull up, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u4	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, U.S. Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I would like to explain the reason for my request to the President of Ukraine regarding the illegal transfer of state property to Ukraine, particularly to the Glycinia boarding house in the service of the administration of the President of the Russian Federation. I realize that in recent years it has become fashionable to transfer Ukrainian property, Ukrainian land, sanitation, and even entire Ukrainian cities to Russian King Putin. And that's what President Kuchma does. So let's support my request to President Kuchma, let's answer the reason why property belonging to the people of Ukraine is more than according to court decisions, according to other acts, is legally owned by the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it is certain that the administration of the President of Russia likes the territory of the Glycinia mansion, which belongs to the Levadian Palace, to the protection zone illegally transferred to the Russian Federation. I very much ask you to go back to this question and vote on the direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, who, in order to return to this question, please vote. [[10:32:45]] For 168 The offer is not supported. What? We're going out. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. All of it. Please. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 93, Ukraine - 3, Communists - 0, SDPU - 0, Dem. National government - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National agrarian - 9, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 2, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 8, Center - 6, non-fraction - 8. Let's move on to making requests, statements, messages, information from MPs and factions. Sergey Shevchuk is a member of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, industrialists and entrepreneurs. Get ready, Vashtuk. While Sergey Shevchuk is coming. I'll make another announcement. In accordance with the Rules, I hereby declare the membership of the "Our Ukraine" faction Yuri Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u6	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! When we join the Council of Europe, our State voluntarily made commitments, which, among other things, should ensure democratic development of society and guarantee transparent and fair elections, both to the representative authorities and to the President of the State, to elections that meet the criteria and standards of the OSCE. The role of Parliament in this crucial period is to promote monitoring and validation of the results of the free will of the Ukrainian people. The political decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that were adopted on the first day of the session regarding the monitoring of the electoral process, in our view, and directed towards the execution of this mission. Blocking these legitimate initiatives from individual factions and groups of parliamentary majority, as well as yesterday's blocking of Parliament's work, forces us to decide on this parliamentary formation. I would like to remind you that the personal membership of the Ukrainian people's deputies was foreseen in the treaty on the establishment of the basic principles and activities of the permanent majority of September 27, 2002, when Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh ruled the government. The goal was to establish a system of politically responsible authority, Euro-integration, the deepening of democracy, a civilized dialogue between power and citizens, power and opposition. We should not now appreciate how fully those stated tasks have been accomplished in the past two years, especially with regard to the deepening of democracy, and we have seen a visual example of a civilized dialogue between power and opposition yesterday. During this time, three coordinators changed. The latter should bear in mind that paragraph 3.1 of the above - mentioned agreement and paragraph 2.3 and paragraph 9 of the regulation on the majority state that the reason for the end of the parliamentary majority’s activities is to reduce its number to fewer than 226 national deputies. The laws of arithmetic, as you well know, my friends, work equally for the presidential election and after the presidential election. The political fad of the Morgan parliamentary majority today is causing irony. After the steps taken by the people's deputies from the "Centre" group and according to the political agreement between the deputies of the factions of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine and the factions of the NDP and!Oh, my God!.... Allow me, on behalf of the national MPs of the Democratic Platform of the NDP, such as Oleg Zarubinsky, Vladimir Kafarsky, Sergey Shevchuk, to state the following, we are not part of the non-existent structure, we confirm our non-participation and consider ourselves free from the obligations set out in previous documents. The members of the democratic platform of the NDP will continue to work on forming, indeed, systems of responsible authority, working with those political forces that we think are actually state and patriotic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u7	Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk is invited from the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Prepare Simon from the Company
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u8	A statement by the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine has once again expressed its concern and has claimed a categorical disagreement with the processes that some have tried to bring about in the form of the exercise of private property rights to land. In fact, there are numerous gross violations of land laws and the Code of Land, which in many cases simply fall under the Criminal Code. This is primarily the case with illegal leases and self - capture of land, and in recent times the objects of abuse have become usually the most valuable in conservation!Oh, my God! The relative areas of land that are the acquisition of the entire Ukrainian people are located in the most beautiful places of Crimea, Carpathian, green areas of cities, along rivers, lakes, and reservoirs. Our faction, members, and activists of our party have no longer had to deal with one such case. So one of the strong examples is the lawlessness in the Yaltin Forest Nature Reserve, which has been fighting for 1.5 years to put an end to the illegal construction of the road and the rest base in the 13th quarter of the Alushtin Forest. This new building is built on an area of 13 acres [13 ha] and destroys the unique wood, the vegetation that has been destroyed by the nation’s more than 700,000 dollars. Thus, the construction takes place in the area of the water spring of Hostabas, the site of the water grabbing of two villages in the city of Alushta. According to the damage to the nature-indictment fund, Yalta's prosecutor's office has been criminalized, but so far there have been no charges, and in time it has been found that the seizure of 13 hectares is only the first step towards the illegal privatization of a unique natural object. At present, in the process of clarifying the area of the forest-forest nature reserve, attempts are made to remove more than 600 hectares from its composition. Dear colleagues, please note that 600 Crimean Reserves are trying to remove such a possibility only if there is agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the appropriate cabinet, Presidential Decree, the Cabinet's decision is to be a whole series.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u9	Thirty seconds. Dear colleagues, let's follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u10	Therefore, the honourable colleagues, the activists of our party, all the wildlife organizations of the Crimea are addressing us all, the law-makers, the Supreme Council, with a request to protect the nature of the Crimea, to protect the nature of Ukraine and all that is an acquisition of the entire Ukrainian people, must be its acquisition, not its private property or rental of individual oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u11	Vladimir Simonov from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u12	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs. Vladimir Simonov, Ternopil. Respectable fellow countrymen. First of all, allow me, on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, to welcome all of you to Partisan Glory Day and to wish the Soviet partisans, the courageous defenders of the country, health, happiness and faith that their great feat will never be forgotten by the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian Company's faction draws the attention of the entire Ukrainian society to the fact that 19 members of the Terebovlje City Council of the Ternopil Region, including one of the representatives of the Social Committee, the secretary of the local centre, actually voted in favour of banning the activities of the Ukrainian Company. The faction of the Company of Ukraine cannot help but see the dangerous precedent, the burning of an atmosphere of hatred and revenge in Ukrainian society, the creation of an insult to the enemies. The faction of the Company of Ukraine strongly opposes such efforts, fully shares the concern of the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens about the cynical use of democracy and freedom of speech for the artificial creation of international language and religious opposition, which in the history of the new Ukraine has already led to the upheaval of premises, beatings, fires and physical settlements. We emphasize that those who voted in favour of this decision and those behind it today are banning the Company in a provincial town, and once it comes to power, they will establish a new totalitarian order throughout Ukraine. We view a similar phenomenon and action as a repetitive fascist ideology. At the same time, this objectively demonstrates the increasing popularity and impact of Communist ideas, the increasing role of the Communist Party in the political system of our nation, the increasing number of supporters of the Ukrainian Presidential candidate from the Company of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka. Just recently, from the initiative of the deputies of the "Our Ukraine" faction by Ternopil City Council, one of the streets of the city has been renamed to the street of the SS Armed Forces division Galicina. This is a challenge for all of our societies. We know that this provocation was done by our Ukrainians. This is confirmed by the fact that the city’s head, Ternopolis, was soon rewarded with a letter and an honorary mark. The faction of the Company of Ukraine calls on the Communists: maintain stamina, resist provocation and intimidation. The Company's faction refers to all citizens of Ukraine, to all voters: remember that Communists are the truth of history, the logic of humanistic development of humanity. Do not allow social development to be reversed by a cruel nationalist neofascist dictatorship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u13	Gregory Dashutin from the deputy faction, the political party "The Hard Ukraine" is invited to the performance. Prepare Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u14	First of all, according to the order of the People's Deputies of Noshchenka, I would like to welcome the partisan movement of the Suma region, and in fact, the partisan movement of the Soviet Union began to develop in the Suma region during World War II. So I would like to welcome all the veterans with this holiday. The Labour Ukraine faction is among the urgent economic, social problems that it's worried about, whether or not it's putting job problems in the state. This problem is a cornerstone for the development of many others. We have repeatedly asked this question, made specific proposals, supported all realistic and reasonable steps to ensure that the maximum number of working citizens in our country have jobs in Ukraine, have modern jobs, receive decent rewards for their work. Today I want to focus your attention on the aspect of the problem. Young people, young people, and girls who have completed their studies in higher and secondary schools are the most challenging. Both in Ukraine and in the developed countries of Europe, not to mention another percentage of unemployed youth far exceeds the average, the average unemployment rate. But that is no reason to point out the fact and to look passively at the situation. To reduce the number of young people who are unemployed or unemployed at all, it is necessary to move in several directions. On the one hand, creating and improving the legal framework. On the other hand, we're actively using existing scales. I'll start with the second one, because I have a good example in the Sumskie area, and by the way, back in 2002, there was a practice of employing graduates from higher education institutions. The initiator was the district government. Then, in 2001, she hired graduates who were trained in government procurement and promoted employment in 97, I emphasize, ninety - seven percent of young professionals. In the previous year, this figure was only 56 percent. And since the following year, there have been nine thousand graduates and nine thousand 16 students here, 98 percent. That is why we are now approaching the second reading of the Vitali Hometics Bill on Young People’s First Jobs. This is very important, but of course this law will not exhaust. This problem, which remains in the focus of our faction, is a major problem for Ukraine’s future. And we call on the MPs of all levels, the government, the executive authorities at the places to participate actively.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u15	Victor Pinzenik is invited to speak from the faction of "Our Ukraine". Prepare Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! Dear compatriots! The faction of Victor Yushchenk's bloc draws the attention of the Ukrainian nationals and citizens to another attempt by the government of Yanukovic to approve the budget next year "under the understandings", not in the interests of Ukrainian citizens. No one's surprised. Because, as all of Ukraine's boards claim, "successful" is consistent in the conduct of its anti-social policy. Yesterday, the faction had already drawn attention to the government’s intentions for the second year in a row to lower the real level of living minimum. But this does not limit the social surprises of the 2005 budget. Teachers, doctors, and other budget workers expect the following year’s real wage cuts. In the 2005 budget, wages are up 10 and a half percent, and price increases are planned at seven. Moreover, since September of this year, prices have increased by another five percent since the previous increase in wages. Once again, the government lacks funds. And this is because the cost of the budget goes up 28 and a half percent. The successive concern for teachers is that of the government's proposals to stop the rules of article 57 of the Education Act, the failure to comply fully with the debts of the past years. A unique decision was made by the government regarding Ukrainian pensioners. After applying for pension payments, the government forgot to anticipate the corresponding funds in the State Budget or the Pension Fund budget. It doesn't smell like them. The government costs are only for a few months this year, for a period of over-planned property privatisation. But this government doesn't care, and it doesn't worry that 91 percent of pensioners will get the same amount of pensions. "Our Ukraine" once again states that there is money in the budget. The budget goes up by 28 billion dollars next year, or 34 percent. These costs are enough to make it to the minimum wage of 300 dollars with a re-establishment of inter-employment ratios in the salaries of the budgeters, because that is what makes it a resource to increase pensions for Ukrainian pensioners. We ask our colleagues not to allow the adoption of an antisocial budget prepared essentially as the cost of Victor Yanukovic's electoral campaign and to do everything possible to adopt the national budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u17	Julius Lucenko has the floor to speak from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. To prepare for Volodymyr Hare, who will also speak from the Alliance group, which is six minutes. From two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Four years ago, George Gongadze, a journalist, went missing. The official authorities did all they could to silence that date. President Kuchma did not find a single word to mention a journalist, not to mention his promise to expose the crime. On that day, the team of the acting prime minister performed songs and claps on the country’s field. Evidence, police interrogation records, the testimony of Igor Goncharov, and most importantly, the records of Mikli Melnick, where all the details of who and how Gongadze ordered are recorded against the authorities. An assessment will be given to the senior officials of Ukraine, who are involved in the murder, and I am sure, very quickly. But it is bitter to realize that today, Gongadze is trying to kill the second time. They are trying to kill the truth about his destruction. But it's not from the tablet gun anymore, it's from the television board. Two years ago, all the presidential channels quoted a propagandist pear film dedicated to the Gongadze case. The film forced the story that Kuchma was specially set up against Gongadze, and the killing of a journalist was organized by the American CIA. Although there is an audio recording of Kuchma’s conversations where he orders Kravchenk’s Minister of Interior to transfer George to the hands of Chechen criminal groups. This ordering film caused a wave of outrage among most Ukrainian journalists, and Pinchuk’s first attempt to save Kuchma from responsibility failed. And now it's been two years, but Pinchuck's ideas are festivating again. Only now did Kuchma's defense deal with the opposition, close to the block of "Our Ukraine" 5 TV channels. The "Close Zone" program demonstrated its version of the murder. It's all the same. The perpetrators specifically instigated the innocent and the childish vulnerable Kuchma matte Gongadze, so that this mat would become evidence. The only difference is that the murder was organized not by the American CIA, but by the Russian FSB. "5 Channel" can be proud, the chief imagemaker Kuchma Pichovszek was happy to quote the whole story on his television program. Well, let's say Pekhovszek and his "Close Zone" thinkers are right. To Gongadze poor Kuchmu was provoked by foreign intelligence agents. Then we have someone to ask, for according to the records of the conversation in Kuchma’s office, there were four foreign intelligence agents such as Viacheslav Pichovsek himself and, at least, the four national deputies in this room. Socialists find it unacceptable to play games to bleach the Kuchma regime against this and other crimes. In this connection, the LRA faction urges all politicians in this hall from Desertstone and Sharov to Yushchenk to give up the idea of a Presidential amnesty. The socialists have experienced media manipulation of the leader's statements, and therefore they urge the Yushchenka to deny the willingness of the faction "Our Ukraine" to vote in favour of the Law on Amnesty Kuchma. Such a statement or absence will give a clear answer to the key question of the election: either you are responsible for the gang's responsibility to the law, or you are building a bushmism with a human face. In addition, the Soccer faction insists on Omelchenka's speech on the Gongadze case, as well as on the Attorney General's report, otherwise we will insist on his resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u19	Yes, Vladimir Rabbit, from the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and from the Group of Deputies of the Union, 6 minutes, please. Bogdan Hubsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! I am authorized, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, to publish an open letter from the parliamentary rostrum to former SDPU member of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Victor Yupchenk's Presidential Electoral Company, Alexander Zinchenko: "To write this letter has given us the sincere indignation caused by your insulting words to the address of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] [[united]] It's not the first time you've allowed yourself to fall on the side of the SDP, which is disorderly for a person who for almost a decade was not just a member of this political organization, but one of its leaders. In one of your last interviews, you said that there was no normal ideology in the Social Democratic Party. The question is, "Didn't you create it for seven years as the party's main ideologist?" It seems that the ideology of SDPU(o) has completely set you up, and in this case, you might say, teeth have been eaten by working in Soviet times as head of the propaganda and advocacy department, the secretary of the LXM CD, the head of the LXM CD. We appreciated your experience, followed your advice, trusted you. And the level of trust we had, if you remember, was high. Only through the party did you become Ukraine’s national deputy as early as 1998. were held in positions of honor by the head of the Parliamentary faction of the SDPU (o), the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, and is now the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Taking advantage of successful business structures and serious authority gained at the expense of SDPU (o), you strengthened your position in the National Media Market, developed a family business. You were then completely equipped with the possibilities offered by the party. By the way, exchange Vice Speaker's chair, which by quota belongs to the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine you are not!I'm sorry. And to give up a high status, as we can see, simply lacks the power of will and morals. [[united]] What's more, you're saying that there was really no quota. And that's your personal merit. Or you'd be in this position if you weren't the first deputy head of the SDR. It's particularly impressive that you're calling the party today. I'm sorry I brought you here. using terms from the language of the criminal world. Similar features offend not only party leaders but also more than 400,000 members. Most of them are simple peasants, workers. Teachers, doctors. Students, scientists, employees. Pensioners. They work honestly for the benefit of Ukraine and believe that tomorrow will be a much better day than yesterday. They sincerely trusted the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine with their future. [[united]] Leaving the matter that was part of your life, you obviously changed your political orientation. This is your personal decision. However, it is not necessary to disgrace your own past and the people you worked with for Ukraine’s future. If you are so disgusted to be among your recent contemporaries, you would have to give up the mandate of the national MP received by the list of the SDPI(o) at number 3. Life’s experience suggests that the time will come when you too candidly disgrace your present - day companions. This will happen when you are in one company with them. We think you will find even more harsh words to boldly expose today’s contemporaries. We consider you a traitor. This stamp will stay with you for the rest of your life. Because we know who betrayed him once and for all, will betray him over and over again. No matter where the camp is, God judges you. On behalf of more than 400,000 members of the SDPU(o) the letter was signed: Head of the SDPU(o) MP in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Hero of Ukraine, member of the SDPU(o) Leonid Krawczuk, Ukrainian Hero, member of the SPDU Tamara Proskoratova, The Hero of Ukraine, member of the SDPU, veteran of the Great National War Luke Susko; heroes of the Soviet Union, members of the SDPU (o) Boris Koleznik, Fedir Shaksovevov; Paul Kulishov; Vasil Fedorenko, Mikola Kuharenko; Alexander Volochov; Alexeilo; Alexei Dogadajlo; Alexei Kolesnikov; Simeon Levchuk; Alexei Nazarov; Mikola Neuprega; Alexander Poznakov; John Solomonenko; John Shevchenko; Nikola Burjak; John Litwin; Ivan Yvašina; Yuri Kurlin; Sergeyy Ostkanko; Mikhailo Ponořov; Stepan Twig; John Daidoev; Peter Rubanov; Basil Burmak; Kuzmaelen; Kuzma Nedoly; Heroes of Social Work, members of SDPU; St. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u21	Bogdan Hubsky is invited from the deputy faction "The One Ukraine" to prepare for Ivanov. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u22	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have the honour to make a new faction in the Supreme Council to represent the new "One Ukraine" Party. We are taking this step consciously, meaningfully and responsibly, doing both the will of our voters and the decision of the political tradition of our party. And we're doing it, first of all, in the ability of people in the faction to be a powerful, self-sufficient political force to act actively, consistently and purposefully. Ukraine is the only one in the parliamentary spectrum, I'm sure, I'm sure of it for a very long time, I have no doubt about it. Perhaps the name of our faction and our party is causing some associations and similarities. But that doesn't confuse us. We really want to see Ukraine as the only, strong, prosperous nation that's going through progress, prosperity and well-being. And ready to work with full self-responsibility. And most importantly, today we have an effective and balanced system of government. In the end, to create an environment and an atmosphere that combines, not with coercion or fear, but with a common desire to heal the economy, to launch effective social programs, to guarantee protection and support for people, to rejuvenate, to enrich the traditions of our nation’s spirituality. That's what we're putting in the concept of "the only Ukraine." All this work, we don't start with a clean sheet, we don't have an empty space, we have a lot of work to do, we have draft bills from the big circle of issues. This is also a real increase in the income of the population, state support for national science, culture, equal access to education, medicine, self-realization, the fight against corruption, lawlessness, the protection of young people and children. We must understand that the success of the State should be the success of every citizen in the simple life sense of that word. For a person to have a decent job, a decent salary, an opportunity and a right to education, a medical examination, and a decent pension. After all, it is only by understanding and harmony that the modern world can be transformed into a human to address its needs and interests and to accelerate the solution to the pressing burning needs of the modern world. And that's why our party, followed by the parliamentary faction, calls on all of us to unite for the future of Ukraine. We're sure they'll hear what you've just heard, hear and support for Ukraine's only big and flowering country. It is by building it and leaving it as an inheritance to the next generation, unless we have a more beautiful purpose and a more honorable duty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u23	Sergey Ivanov from the deputy group "Centre" is invited to the presentation. Prepare Gregory Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you from the "Centre" Group. In July 2001, people's names, including members of the national parliament, were reported to have been involved in the collapse of the Ukrainian stock exchange. You and I voted in favour of creating an interim commission of inquiry led by King Viktor Mikhailovich. On February 20, 2003, when the first report was made to this commission, we heard that a number of criminal cases had been violated by the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. But, as always, we do not know how this ends or ends. Moreover, on March 7, 2002, we passed the Ukrainian Act on the Settlement of Debt for Investments by Natural Persons - Investors and Other Creditors of the Agroindustry Stock Exchange Bank "Ukraine". But today's payoffs are off. So given all this, I propose: first, to put to the vote the question of hearing a report from the Interim Investigation Commission and, secondly, to hear the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of the investigation of these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u25	Grigory Ivanovich Bondarenko is invited to the presentation by the Ukrainian delegation. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! During my vacation in the district, I was shocked by the news: as of March of this year, the driver’s license had traveled a hundred times, not to study, no, the paper itself. To be honest, I didn't believe it. But the State Price Control Inspectorate confirmed the news, the truth being made clear: They said that the certificate was worth 118 times more than a hundred. That's nonsense, of course, stopped. Monopolies, even autoinspections, forced the setting of an economically sound price. However, it was found that the price inspection was not able to exercise proper control, and it did not have the necessary legislative field to do so. Plus, traditional poverty is lack of funding, only enough money for wages and a few pencils. The regional structures of Kiev, Suma, and Volin regions do not even have rooms, are almost on the street. And there's not enough traffic, and there's not enough equipment, and there's not enough workers everywhere. All of this prevents proper price control, in every third of the companies tested, there is a violation of prices. You can't help but say this. In Ukraine, the state controls prices up to 12 percent, the rest of the price free. In the European Union, 15-20 percent. We have free prices in metallurgy, while in the West they are under state control. Yet the European Union is making claims about state regulation in this area. And we're going to say, we know that from time to time, we go to price administration. But we do it all naturally. The quality of this work needs to be significantly improved. Only a number of indicators are not enough. All these problems are solved by the State Price Control Inspectorate. By the way, in most countries of Europe, these are organized structures. But this is a task for our price inspection that is extremely difficult and perhaps too difficult. First of all, because it's in the shape of a Minneconomy. Logically, an inspection should control this ministry as part of price formation. And she's in his care. The answer is yes. A new law on prices and pricing is needed. Price regulation, which should be controlled by a state authority itself. We need to provide this structure financially, all that is needed to enable it to function. In view of the importance of the problem, please consider my statement as a request by the MP to the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u27	From the Yulia Block, Timoshenko gives Alexander Turchinov the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, in the country, despite the numerous assurances of President Kuchma, instead of elections, they want to create a total civil conflict. This is confirmed by all the last acts of the system. This is evidenced by the attempt to physically destroy the presidential candidate Victor Yushchenka, a new wave of depression against Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, evidenced by the fact that in Kiev and in the regions the authorities are preparing fighters under the roof of their structures to destabilize the situation before and during the elections. The norm has been the beating of our activists, activists from democratic opposition. In particular, last night he was brutally beaten in his apartment by the first deputy head of the election headquarters of Viktor Yushchenk in Kirovograd. And so many examples can be cited. Criminal elements and fascist young men under the roof of power are unpunished to create provocations and conflict situations. And when democratically set up, patriotic citizens try to resist them, such citizens are arrested, criminal cases are opened against such citizens. I want to draw the attention of the people's deputies to another major crime that's no longer hidden by the authorities -- economic and political independence in exchange for the support of this power by the northern neighbour. They're all about businesses, gas pipelines, oil pipelines. They are willing to surrender their soul to preserve their authority. Particularly cynical was the last provocation within the framework of Kuchma and Putin's agreement against the leader of the democratic opposition of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The Russian Federation military prosecutor’s office, who agreed to start a new provocation, forgot that Julia Volodymyrna was not a military bound Russian Federation. Moreover, she is not a citizen of this country. And such foolish demands by Russian officials may require only for their citizens. I would like to warn my colleagues from the Russian Federation of the role they want to impose on their country today, the gendarmerie of the totalitarian regimes of the SND countries. This role can result in a very bad outcome for this long - suffering country. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko demands that foreign countries be stopped from taking part in Ukraine’s elections. We require reports and resignations of the power structures, the leaders of the power structures. We're asking you to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u29	Honorable colleagues, representatives of all factions and MPs who wanted to speak, had this opportunity. We have several petitions from the National Deputies for dissatisfaction with the questions of the MPs, but among all those who have made such a request, they have been drafted in accordance with the requirements of the Rules only by the national MP, Gurwicz. So, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u30	Edward Gurwitz, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! On 2 July, the Supreme Council of Ukraine sent a request to the President for verification of my second Israeli citizenship. The request was preceded by an organized press campaign. Following the recent monitoring of Ukrainian Internet Security Services, the Ukrainian Criminal Service, which has compromised me, has also published the Israeli newspaper Mai, and before the vote, has been professionally worked. The registered and notarized compromise was awarded by the deputies. The press is right in the walls of Parliament. I deliberately refrained from commenting until the official verification was completed. The answer came from the President's Administration. Not from the President's administration, but from the Attorney General's Office and the BSS. The answers indicated that no second nationality of mine could be found. However, while pointing out that Israel refused to comment on requests relating to the submission of its nationality to nationals of other States, the BSS provided its response with uncertainty and ambiguity, considering that the authors did not respond to the request. Whether they themselves had never believed in the seriousness of their suspicions, whether the request and information accompanying it were their primary concern. However, such an answer could not satisfy me because it had left room for further speculation. My own investigation has yielded much more concrete results, which makes it question at least the competence of our services. In Israel, it may not be possible to comment on abstract requests for citizenship on a request: even in Israel, even the passport with a certain number of persons who categorically deny it has a passport. A few days after my appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Israel confirmed the falsification of the documents contained in the request, and the Fraud and Counterfeit Division of the Israeli Police launched a criminal investigation. In fact, the passport attributed to me belongs to an Israeli national who left the country in 1954. Her name is very similar to mine, but her passport number doesn't match the one in the fabricated documents of the year that I'm supposed to get Israeli citizenship. I gave official evidence of falsification to the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Newspaper. and the Israelis. who have stamped and signed forged documents under certain circumstances have already regretted me and apologized to me. I do not need apologies from the authors of the request, but I believe that things should be named by their names. The story of my double-dwelled citizenship is nothing more than an order of political provocation. It was conceived and carried out in the worst soviet traditions, directed against me personally and the faction "Our Ukraine". Each serious case has its own funny side. In the present case it is that among those who supported the request were the holders of real Israeli and Russian passports. Of course, that's all I can tell those who want to find a black cat in a dark room next time, especially when she's not there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u31	Please, Omelchenka microphone, 1 minute. From the request declaration procedure. Gregory Omelchenko, one minute out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u32	Grigory Omelchenko, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Association of Ukrainian Officers. Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! When I was 20 years old, I became an officer. But throughout my life of service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Armed Forces of the former Soviet Union, the Security Service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I have not met such a coward who fears his own shadow and his criminal past as Victor Yanukovich, the current Prime Minister, the candidate for the presidency of Ukraine and the Supreme Commander, who fears not only his own shadow but also his own past. And, despite his parliamentary inquiries and appeals, he has not yet given the documents on what he was convicted of. And he was convicted of robbery, severe beatings, that is, other crimes. I ask you, Mr. Yanukovic, to give official answers, personally to my parliamentary requests and not to be a coward.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u33	The name was mentioned, the national deputy of the Tsagnibok, 1 minute. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, Oleg Tuggnibok, Ukrainian Freedom Union. During the past, past parliamentary meetings have repeatedly referred to my name on the Communist side in an offensive form. You know, my mother was four years old when the encavedists came to dinner and cheered her up with her entire family in Siberia just because her father was a priest and refused to serve the Russian Church. And so millions of Ukrainians who were evicted, illegally repressed, tens of millions died of starvation, hundreds of thousands of people were destroyed as a result of the collectiveization, as a result of the exploitation and other shameful things that you Communists have done. And for 13 years, your educators, Kuchma's partners and their like, are destroying the Ukrainian nation today. And after that, can you give me a hard time? After that, can you blame me for anything? Who will be responsible for these crimes?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u35	Yes, the honourable colleagues, the exchange of thoughts, the speeches are over. We will proceed to the realization of our order of the day. Yes. Dear colleagues, calm down! Calm down! I repeat, according to the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down! Dear colleagues! The name Tragnibok was not mentioned, the faction was mentioned. He mentioned another faction, and the faction, and the faction has the right to answer. Please, one minute of the gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u36	You know, respectable colleagues. Well, I'm surprised Tuggnibok took the line. As he was not mentioned at the meeting. But I don't see the grounds, I don't see what the Communists insulted Mr. Tuggnibok by calling him a fascist, a fascist. But I'm surprised by a few reactions from colleagues in our Ukraine. I've seen here just applause for his statement. Dear colleagues! As far as I know, he was expelled from his faction. For what we're accused of. What are you applauding for? Kenzier, what did you clap for?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! There's a bill on military technical cooperation with foreign states. Registration number is 4228. He's reporting, he's reporting. Dear colleagues! You can apologize, I remind you of the rules, you can only exchange replicas once, because you can. Because you can! Replics exchange all day long, calling each other. First Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Kazakov Valeri Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u38	Please report from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u39	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. It's a draft Military Technical Cooperation Act that's been introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u41	Valery Petrovich, please wait. Kendzior's replica was named after him. But don't mention it, because you're going to get the answer in a lineup again. I'm paying attention to "our Ukraine" to be a good person. Behave yourself properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u42	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka’s block. Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you not to use your party membership as a leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u43	Turn off the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, I repeat. I'm using you, you'll get a minute, you'll get a minute. But if you say the lines that anyone has mentioned, I am in line with the Rules. The regulation states that only once a replica can be exchanged and that there can be no endless exchange of lines. They called your last name - speak essentially. The leader's here for nothing. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u44	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues are national MPs! There is no limit to the impunity of the Communists in this room! Please tell me, is it not true that the 18th-year communist regime has recently destroyed millions of Ukrainians? What are you talking about, the Communists?Oh, my God! What is it that slanders the outposts from their Kravchuk nest that Kuchma has been destroying this country for 13 years? Let's call things our names after all. And today this part of the deputies, who are on the left side of me, from the rostrum, is doing everything today to protect this criminal regime led by Kuchma, Yanukovich, Medvedczuk! They're all over.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u45	Yeah, we're listening to the question. Please, Valery Petrovich, on the rostrum. You can go to the rostrum. Yes, Valery Petrovich, wait. Please, Kravchuk's microphone. Kravczuk's microphone for replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u46	I never denied being part of the Communist Party, but I am one of those who signed the document to make Ukraine independent. And people like Mr. Kenzior, who haven't built a doghouse in their lives, are now taking responsibility to speak from the rostrum about what they don't know and have done nothing for this Ukraine. You've ruined it, Mr. Kendiser.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u47	Valerius Petrovich, please, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Government's draft law on military and technical cooperation with foreign states, when adopted, will ensure the legislative consolidation of the established system of state regulation in the field of international military and technical cooperation. The adoption of this law will provide an opportunity to increase the scientific and technical and export potential of, above all, the defence industry, to increase budget revenue. The adoption of this law means new jobs in the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex, which produce not only military products, but dual-purpose products. The draft law, according to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, could be adopted in the first reading on the basis of further development. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Science and Education, the Committee on European Integration, has reached the same conclusion. The decision of the National Security and Defence Committee is to invite the Supreme Council to submit a draft for further work. The project’s developers appreciate the comments and suggestions made during the discussion. We think it's a very real thing to develop this project technologically, and we ask you to accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u49	Thank you for saving the time. Are there any questions? Please sign in. Put it on the board. Five boards. A miner. After him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u50	Please give the floor to Deputy Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u51	Ostrich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u52	Igor Ostrash, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Mr. Reporter, today we are discussing a very important issue: cooperation with foreign states is military-technical. But, as you know, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the fundamental principles of foreign policy, that is, cooperation with foreign nations, are determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In recent times, however, we have witnessed that one person in Ukraine - the President - by his decree - is trying to change the basic principles of Ukraine’s foreign policy. Please tell me, can the government side with the Constitution and do everything possible to ensure that such laws are adopted only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and that the President of Ukraine does not make anti-constitutional and do no great harm to the Ukrainian State and Ukrainian defence? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. It seems to me that there is some logic here that the government is introducing today's Supreme Council draft law on military and technical cooperation with foreign states. The law has a framework, it sets the ratio both in matters of state control and in matters of defining the principles of military and technical policy. Its refinement will allow you to take into account all the suggestions that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u54	Please, Orzhachowski. He's behind him, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u55	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Communist Party, Hersonian. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. First question: would you please tell me how many foreign countries Ukraine now has appropriate military-technical cooperation agreements? And the second. Please tell me, if you have such calculations, about the loss of Ukraine for the free escort of flights to Afghanistan by NATO air space in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. As for the existing system, the legal system of military and technical cooperation. 17 countries today have military-technical cooperation agreements at the intergovernmental level. Taking into account agreements of an interdisciplinary nature, and this type of agreement, there will be 22 more agreements. So 11 countries are our main partners in military and technical cooperation. Among them are the Russian Federation, France, Germany, China, and Vietnam, especially the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. With our Vietnamese partners, we moved this year into the formation of a second five-year military-technical cooperation plan, completing the 1st five-year programme. As for the second question, I'm sorry, I'm not competent to give accurate information, so I'm not going to fantasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u57	Please, Calinchuk. After him, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u58	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Valery Petrovich, our faction will support the government's proposal on the need for legislative strengthening of the mechanisms for regulating military and technical cooperation with other states. Along with the analysis of this document, the bill hardly contains any rules that could be directly applied in practice. For example, to effectively monitor the implementation of military and technical cooperation treaties, to enforce legislation in this area, and so forth. Here's the question. What is the need to adopt a law that will not be used in practice? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. I already said at the beginning of the speech that the law is binding. Let the legislative system of military-technical control and military-technical cooperation be established or created. This state system began to develop at the beginning of independence. Basically, in 1994-1995, the creation of a 4-level Swedish model of an effective system of state expert control was completed. It includes a committee of military and technical cooperation of expert control and Derzexport control as a working body, it's a self-executive authority in the state today, and it works quite effectively. During, you know, those events that were related to the ring in the past year, our American friends didn't find any violations in this system, it works effectively today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u60	Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u61	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please tell me what information is there today about Ukraine's cooperation with Iraq before the war and, after the war, when we're there, we're talking about Ukraine, we're supplying "thorns" and other weapons? This was also part of a jurisdiction that would be governed by this law? Is it necessary to adopt a more specific law so that at hot spots Ukraine does not provide weapons, so that Ukraine will be defined once and for all with the Military Doctrine, with cooperation with NATO or with Russia, and then with military-technical cooperation? Maybe we should start with this instead of building tanks with the Russians, instead of building a system with NATO?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u62	Thank you for your attention. I can responsibly state, as a member of the Political and Technical Cooperation Committee for several years, that no request for the supply of arms, military technology to Iraq or other troubled countries has been considered by this committee. Moreover, when in the past year, four groups of American and British experts were testing the possibility of delivery of earrings to Iraq, they found no evidence of what was happening. As for cooperation with Iraq now, everyone knows that all restrictions have been lifted, Ukraine has won a tender for the supply of thousands of 200 crochet trucks, and this contract is now being successfully implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u63	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Honorable colleagues and members of the government and national deputies! People's deputies. You're taking up government beds early, and the government's still doing what it does. Don't stop them from working. From the committee head of the Committee on National Security and Defence Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, members of the government! The draft framework law before us is intended to determine the basic principles of state policy in the field of military and technical cooperation with foreign states. Its objectives, species, order of state regulation and control, authority of state authorities in this area, and responsibility for violating the requirements of legislation. Unfortunately, even for the framework law, the project came out too general, too eloquent. It does not define the powers of executive authorities other than the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, ministries of economics, foreign affairs, defence, industrial policy, security services, expert control, national space agency, customs. The mandate of the Supreme Council is not defined, the non-defined entities authorized to carry out military and technical cooperation and control in this area are not defined as the basis for financial policy in the pursuit of cooperation and the specificity of international agreements, nor are there any arrangements for guaranteeing export insurance and credit. Scientific experts, as well as members of our committee and other committees, have made a number of specific comments on the project. Committees on foreign affairs, on science and education, on European integration issues, as the deputy minister has already reported, noted that the shortcomings of the project are considered possible as a basis, in view of the fact that, in preparing for the second reading, shortcomings can be addressed. Our committee has expressed its support for the return of the bill to read again. Both proposals are eligible for implementation. But when the decision is made. Maybe we should consider this: the bill was introduced by the government more than a year ago. For more than seven months, after considering the project, he submitted it to the Supreme Council in the session hall. The flaws of the project can be removed, and we and the developers are now preparing appropriate proposals. In view of this, I would personally feel that we should adopt this bill today as a basis and quickly prepare it for consideration in the second reading. The law is essential. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u65	Yes. Are there any questions? Please sign up, three minutes. Please show the names of the deputies on the board. Chubarov, behind him, Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u66	Georgi Korniyovich, although I'm a long way from military affairs, I can imagine: what formats can be military-technical cooperation with countries, with foreign states, or their individual structures, that is, states, are borders, are neighbors - far, close. What, though, should be done when troops are present in the territory of a foreign country? I'm talking about the situation in Crimea for a few years when the troops left, they went through almost all over Crimea, our government authorities didn't know about it, so I want to ask, is there any specificity of this technical cooperation with those foreign states that have their armies in our territory? Thank you. How will this be governed by this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, you know that the conditions of the Russian-Black Sea fleet in Ukraine are clearly regulated by the agreement with the Russian Federation and a number of agreements that come out of this law. That's what we need to be guided by.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u68	Please, Novak. He's behind him. He's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u69	Dear George Korniyovich, I fully agree with you that the project is indeed of an extremely eloquent nature. It is not clear who and how to exercise control over the implementation of military and technical cooperation treaties, the enforcement of legislation in this area, the rules governing the order, methods for the implementation of such cooperation, the rights and duties of public authorities. It seems that the authors of this project deliberately want to distract the public from this process in order to make their own decisions and not to answer for anything. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u70	I wouldn't go to such clear statements. The bill is indeed raw and requires serious work. But it needs to be worked out and it needs to be done. That's the situation. Either we take it as a basis and we make a normal bill, or we go back to re-reading, and we do the same work, and it's only going to take a few months or so. Here's the thing. And your comments are quite fair. I agree with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u71	Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u72	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist faction of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovsk. Georgi Korniyovich, I think you're quite right about the fact that this bill needs to be voted on. To vote at least because the deputy minister is here, he made a very strong argument about the earrings. As we faced this situation, we found out. I think that's the law. But there is an age - old controversy — legislative authority and executive power. Tell me, please, with this bill, we're not going to cross out that we can't interfere with this, that we can't control how this is actually going, what is the matter with this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u73	My dear colleague, as you may have pointed out, to the flaws of the bill, I pointed out above all that there is absolutely no definition of the place and role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So it has to be very thorough -- both control functions, and installation functions, and other functions. Unfortunately, I have to say that some government officials mention the Supreme Council when some law is to be opposed, the bill is to be passed, and then, on the second day, it comes back. I think that if there were colleagues of Hubsky here, some others, they could confirm it by an example of one of the very important institutions, our one ministry, about which we recently adopted a very interesting and very useful bill, but they've already forgotten who accepted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u74	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, is there a desire to share in this discussion? Then, please, nine minutes. Melniczuk, get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u75	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to provide a legislative mechanism for the regulation of military and technical cooperation with other states. And certainly military doctrine in general, all that is done in this direction, needs the support of parliamentarians. I would like to pay attention to the following questions. And yet, about what my colleague Rudzkowski was talking about, about the arms trade, something was not confirmed, something was not confirmed, but I want to say that smart and man was in his own time when he mentioned that there was no smoke without fire and that trade was a weapon, and that it was done under the cover of those who headed the Ministry of Defense in their own time. Clearly, the change in the defense ministers did not bring us any success in that direction. We realize that today we have so many negatives in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And it's not because we have generals, colonels, officers, it's not professional. We are proud of those who work in the Armed Forces today. They're actually on that payday and even in that regard to the Armed Forces, they're really our fighting men who need to be supported. But I'd like the next one. Why Ukraine, the shot goes from one side to the other. We have examples when we're asked why UN sanctions are still being violated and sometimes our weapons are in countries where they shouldn't be. Whatever they're trying to do, but they are, they are. And this is done under the cover of, of course, our statesmen. We didn't talk about the army in Iraq once. What, not enough examples of the latest events in Russia? They may have nothing to do with Iraq. But there's another problem -- that what happened in Russia, God forbid, will be in Ukraine tomorrow. Do our services work the way it worked in Russia, and how many people have died there? Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz has repeatedly advocated the immediate withdrawal of troops from Iraq. And we insist on that, I'm again addressing the Secretary of Defense, who, I'm sure, understands that we need to do this right away. We've got to get the troops out of there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Yavorowski Vladimir. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u77	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, Reverend Eugene Kirilovich, distinguished Ukrainian soldiers! Let me get a couple of digits. Today's Ukrainian army is 355,000 military personnel. She's thirteen by number, I repeat, thirteen by number. And one hundred and twenty-six, I repeat, one hundred and twenty-six at the level of defense. It takes first place, the only first place in terms of the number of generals. And last of all, military security. If we add another Iraqi adventure to this, we can now make one concrete point: the Ukrainian army is crushed, shattered, and the Commander-in-Chief has done so. It's an amazing historical fact, and I think in human history it will never happen again. Well, having this reality today, knowing very well that there's a plan to get the Ukrainian Navy out of Sevastopol and leave only the Russian fleet there, and the Ukrainian toss it into Donuzlaw, where a very narrow cove, where one ship can be sunk -- and this Donuzlav is no longer needed, even in Soviet times they refused it. So what does the government offer us? Here's another document. I am absolutely convinced that this document is written by absolutely illiterate people, where there is no reason for the human mind to get involved, there are only one valid slogans: "(a) the priority of the interests of national security and the defence of the state." Who will care for these national interests, tell me, who? When the last facts from which the ants go around the body: two of our "Ruslans" who could work with NATO and give Ukraine and money, and pave the way to NATO, are arrested. And we know why it's done and who's behind it. The new facts now are a blow to Marchuk. I am not a supporter and protector of Marchuk. But look, today the minister's peeing too. The Hen Procurator's office has finally woken up and found the chief culprit, Marchuk, who is being trumpeted on all roads today. And who is responsible for our Russians' arrest? It turns out that the Lyscan factory failed to meet some of its parity obligations there. Here's what we got. And take another look at what's signed in. So here's what I'm finishing my speech with. If Kuchma had previously been able to meet Putin and others without ties, now Janukovich is ours, taking into account his unconventional past, and the ministers should come without watches and hats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u78	The word is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u79	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I carefully read this so - called law. I'll tell you, along with the End positions, it's 10 articles. 10 completely empty, empty articles! And you know, I feel like I'm deliberately throwing myself at Parliament. It's a good name, it's got to be a law, it's got to be a name. A few definitions and everything and everything else needs to be filled in to Parliament. Why do you throw away such laws? Why does Prime Minister Janukovic sign them? You know, I've been asking questions for a long time and I've been thinking about what, and now I just know the answer to that. I understand why. When I took that poll for President of Ukraine, I clearly understood why. Well, when a person writes in paragraph 10, "Scientific title--" and writes "professor," I'm sorry, I can say to this government, "Fah!".. [[with two f's]] That's what you're doing here! That's what I'm showing the regions. Ladies and gentlemen! You couldn't find a literate leader? Can't you find an 8-year-old? But find an 8-year-old who'll make it clear to you. Well, "professor" doesn't say "f" in any language: neither in English, nor in French, nor in Mordoise. What are you doing, huh? So you're leading the country to such a disaster? And I'm looking at Georgi Korniyovich Kruchev speaking today. Committee opinion. Serious conclusion is to work on taking into account the comments made and the suggestions for re-reading. Then I hear Georgi Korniovich here says, "But the law has to be passed." I'm sitting here thinking, "What, is this a bad law?" Of course, his own George Korniyovich sees that this is just a slogan that does not exist, and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is absolutely pressing both from this law and from what will be next. You're painting the Supreme Council, you're erasing it, you're pushing it out. Where will you put it? This is where the people sit. Where are you gonna throw it? You're not going anywhere. Do you understand? We'll throw you out! That's true, and you're not going to throw it away, but I'm looking at these powers to stop Parliament's work, and as much as it doesn't hurt me, not bitterly, and I think that I've made the right offer of George Khrushchev myself, let's take the first reading, let's take the ball to this field, but we'll have the professors there and write our own who write one "f" that literate people and 12 mistakes on one sheet. So let us also accept God with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. We're going to be able to determine from the portion of this project. I'm voting on adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Military and Technical Cooperation with Foreign States. [[4228 Bill Registration Number]] Please vote. [[11:52:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 7, Regions - 4, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 0, Deminiciates - People's Government - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 18, SPO - 1, Block Timoshenko - 3, Union - 0, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 16, Center - 0, Postfraction - 2. Dear colleagues! There was a proposal made by the chairman of the committee that the committee had decided to refer the bill to read again. Please vote for the re-reading. [[11:53:21]] For-200 Please, by the factions. Our country is 59, the regions of Ukraine is 14, the communists are 58, the Social Democrats are 0, the Deminicates, the People's Landing! - 1, Hard Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian - 21, Socialists - 16, Block Timoshenko - 13, Union -, NDP, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 12, Center - 1. Yes, dear fellows. So the bill is off. There's a draft of the Defense Planning Act. Bill by number. Project registration number is 5314. Reports from Defence Minister Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. Please, 10 minutes and 5 minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u81	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The changes in the military strategic environment that have taken place in Europe over the past decade, the emergence of a new range of security threats within the two millenniums, and the introduction of market economy mechanisms into the everyday practice of developing a military component of the state, have made it necessary to carry out a defence review in Ukraine. The mechanism was determined by a decree issued by the President of Ukraine on July 4, 2003. The results of the security review are reflected in the strategic defence bulletin in the concept document for the long-term period up to 2015. The Ukrainian President's decree on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 17 June 2004 on Ukraine's strategic defence bulletin for the period up to 2015 provides for the improvement of legislative and other legal acts, the development of targeted National Defence Policy Implementation Programmes. The draft Ukrainian Defence Planning Act has been drafted by the Ministry of Defence in collaboration with interested ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch. The purpose of the bill is to develop a coordination mechanism, a mechanism for coordinating the efforts of ministries and other central executive authorities to implement defence planning in Ukraine, and to adapt the national defence planning system to the current standards of defence planning in the leading countries of the world. The bill takes into account and develops the position of Ukraine’s defence laws, the draft Ukrainian law defines the purpose, principles, basic tasks, content and timetables of defence planning, defined subjects of the state administration system, and proposes a decision-making mechanism for the implementation of defence planning in Ukraine. The implementation of the Ukrainian draft law will allow: the creation of legal frameworks and organisational frameworks for the implementation of defence planning in Ukraine, the systemization and maximum approximation of Ukraine's defence planning system to the world's leading defence planning standards, the increased transparency of the defence budget, and the expansion of the defence spending control mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the draft Ukrainian law on the organization of defence planning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u82	Yes. Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please light up on the board. Five minutes. Gorgeous, followed by Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u83	Please give the floor to the Deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u84	Please, Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u85	Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block. Eugene Kirilovich. Dear colleagues, let me see Eugene Kirilovich. Eugene Kirilovich, I have a more procedural and structural question. You must be informed that we have an interesting situation in the Supreme Council right now, we have three factions that make up the majority of the parliamentary majority, not voting in principle. In protest. You represent a government, a key position. This is the government's decision to enact a government bill in Parliament. We're discussing, we're making the right decisions, but you know that three factions ("Regions", SDPU(o), "Trug Ukraine") will not vote in principle. So you think it's appropriate to fail the government project now, because your colleagues who formed the government don't want Parliament to work?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u86	I just learned about the results of the vote on the previous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u87	Please, Orzhachowski. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Eugene Kirilovich, I have two questions for you. As a representative of the Communist faction, you understand, of course, the planning, including the defense. But I would still like you to know who you are, I understand that planning is at the central level, and at the local level, on whom you're going to rely if you adopt such a law? And the second. Were we planning on getting some money while our military contingent was in Kosovo, and what did we really get? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u89	From the last question. The peacekeeping operations carried out by our contingents in Kosovo are fully compensated by the relevant international structures. We had a situation where we had to pay our expenses in full in connection with our stay. This was the subject of our negotiations. And a small problem remains, but it will be resolved by the end of this year. With regard to regional structures in defence planning. The defence function is the prerogative of the central authorities, the parliament, the government, the president. And so this law, the draft law, provides for a procedure for coordination and the interaction of central authorities in defence planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u90	Please, Kalinchuk. He's got Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u91	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Eugene Kirilovich, we understand that the necessity of adopting this law stems from the need for effective management of the Armed Forces, the determination of the order of planning and the coordination of the efforts of the State authorities in the field of defence. The faction will support the bill. However, in the course of his work, we had this question: According to article 4 of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the position of the military doctrine of Ukraine could be clarified. But this is not in line with the current legislation of Ukraine. According to part two of the second article of Ukraine’s National Security Act, Ukraine’s military doctrine is approved by the President of Ukraine. Thus, only the President can change the military doctrine of Ukraine. Will these arguments be the basis for the exercise of the veto by the President of Ukraine? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u92	First. The draft law provides for the coordination of the central authorities in the field of defence and, in general, not only the Armed Forces but also other military formations created according to current legislation. The other one. As far as the ratio is concerned. Indeed, historically the previous edition of the military doctrine was approved by Parliament. But then a law was passed on the basis of national security. And according to this law, the doctrine and strategy, the doctrine of war and the strategy of national security, and the component of the strategy of national security, that is, the strategy of military security, is approved by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u93	Please, Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u94	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please give my word to my colleague Stepan Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u95	Please, it's Bulby's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u96	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Eugene Kirilovich, please tell us that we are forced to pay 97 million dollars a year on an Iraqi adventure from the state budget. Why do not they come fully from the United Nations Secretariat for the participation of the Ukrainian contingent in peacekeeping operations? Why is this happening?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u97	Perhaps a distinguished national MP, you have incomplete information. Because we had no case of the United Nations Secretariat paying for our participation in peacekeeping operations. There have been cases of delays. But this year we have even exceeded our expectations of paying compensation for our participation in peacekeeping operations. There is no problem in this regard. It should be said that the United Nations Secretariat here is functioning very clearly, and we have no claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u98	Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich, please sit down. The committee reports that the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich, reports. Please, 5 minutes, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! The Government's draft law that we are currently considering is another step in the implementation of the military force reform programme, the entire state military organization, in ensuring and carrying out this responsible legal field. It's dedicated to a very important issue -- organization of planning the activities of public authorities in the area of defence in order to prevent and neutralize threats to national security, to ensure the credibility of the state. The project defines tasks, principles, species, defence planning. During the consideration of the bill, members of our committee drew attention to a number of shortcomings in the document. The project, as already noted, does not provide space for the role of the Supreme Council. It seems to us that it is worth identifying the place of the State Commission on Reform and Development of the State Military Organization on defence planning issues, more precisely as required by law, to entrust the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, which is to prepare proposals on these issues, to mention the Council's functions in the area of defence budgeting, which is very important. The order of strategic deployment of the Armed Forces should be determined in the context of planning their mobilization and preparing the country’s territory for military action. Science experts have noted some of the shortcomings of the project. These flaws, we believe, can be remedied in preparing for the second reading. And frankly, the Ministry of Defense and I have already prepared these proposals and we will clarify them once appropriate proposals have been made from the national MPs. With this in mind, the committee proposes to adopt the project as a basis for its speedy development. And with regard to the vote, I think the leadership of the Supreme Council should determine whether it makes sense to vote now, whether we should wait for the factions to recognize the need to work in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u100	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. We will not wait for factions, for there are the Supreme Council, not individual factions. And we'll figure it out. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Any questions? Well, then, why don't you sign up? Please show me on the board. Three minutes. Manchulenko. He's behind him, Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u101	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear George Korniyovich, perhaps my question would sooner be with the Secretary of Defense, but I still want to focus on this problem. More than a year ago, I asked the government that the defense budget as a component of defence planning be made up of individual budgets of the military forces. At the time, they were four types of Armed Forces. Then the government didn't want to do this job because it's a big job and there'll be less manipulation of the defense budget by the Cabinet of Ministers, said there's going to be a transition to the 3-type Armed Forces and then you can ask that question. It is our soldiers, the armed forces of Ukraine that are very supportive of this ideology so that the defence budget is made up of separate budgets for the moment by three types of military force: the Air Force, the Navy and the Land Army. I think the government has done the wrong thing without doing it right now. I think we're gonna have to fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u102	Dear George Manoliyovich, I think when we consider a draft budget for the defence committee, we will discuss this and determine the position of the committee, and if necessary, we will address both the Supreme Council and the government. It makes a lot of sense, but we still need to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u103	Please, Bulba. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u104	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u105	Please, Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u106	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please tell me, Your Honor, do you think this bill restricts the influence of the Supreme Council on military processes? How do you feel that the National Security Council will intervene in the military doctrine approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine? And would it be right to adopt such a law if we prepared changes to the Constitution that talk about increasing the role of parliament and civil control over military, so to speak, structure? Is it right for Ukraine to go through the adoption of laws militarized instead of adopting laws that would have.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u107	Dear colleague, well, first of all, about the Supreme Council and the National Security Council, I have expressed myself, I think, unequivocally, and I'm just not going to waste any time and take him to my colleagues. I've made my point. In this regard, it is a matter of adopting militarized laws or nonbilitarized laws. There is a state, a state must protect itself and defend itself, and it must plan this work. And to do so normally in the legal field, it has to be regulated in the legislative order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u108	Please, Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u109	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear George Korniyovich! I wanted to ask that question and the Secretary of Defense at all, but I failed, so I'm asking you. How can we approach strategic planning when, on account of our Supreme Commander-in-Chief Ukraine, there is no way to determine whether it will enter NATO and become a member of collective security, or whether it will rely on its own strength to secure its defence? How can we approach strategic planning in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u110	Dear Stephen Ilkovich! I think the position is clearly defined. A declared Euro-Atlantic choice, declared. NATO was not determined when it would accept Ukraine into its composition. I have my position in this regard, I am definitely against this, but the reality is that, and today we say that we're not determined by choice, we exist, we have our space, we have to protect it. And if we get in position: either there or there, we're gonna get hit in the tail and the mane. We must defend our national interests, and they dictate the need for balanced foreign and defence policies. That's what I could say to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u111	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, sit down. Dear colleagues! Why don't we make a decision without discussion? I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. . on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on the Organization of Defence Planning. [[Registration number 5314]] Please vote. [[12:13:10]] For 213 Now! Now! Dear colleagues! I see they don't vote because they insist on speaking. Let's do that. Please. A break of 30 minutes to 12.40 is announced. After that, three speakers and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u112	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Law on Defence Planning. We agreed to have a discussion and make a decision within 10 minutes. Yeah? Who do we have on record from the rostrum? Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u113	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradstina. Having read the draft draft law on military matters, it can be concluded that it is certainly necessary. It is boring that they are designed for an unprofitable perspective, because they are not based on the real situation in the country's economy. The economy only grows on the President's mouth, which states that only the blind do not grow. It's like a popular song called "Good, Lovely Marquis." Our army has a miserable existence, without the necessary resources from year to year, and there is no exercise: not a company, not a battalion, not, however, a regiment, with its entry into the field. There is no training. Ask any soldier: How do you do? He'll call you a driver, he'll finish his job, but he hasn't driven a car in a while because of the lack of fuel, he hasn't even held a vending machine. Ask any commander of the air force, and he'll give you a rare exception by confusion, admitting that his pilots don't fly much, because they don't have anything else to fly, because there's no spare parts and there's no aircraft repair. Sometimes it is a pity to observe a group of soldiers standing on the road waiting to get paid for a separate location, where they have nothing to do, and they are openly forced to do business. At best, they only do construction training, and soldiers do not even learn to carry out the carnival service. It has been observed that warehouses and technical territories are protected by civilians. From where, then, the funds needed by the armies would be taken, not only if the State gave up the most basic, budget-generating industries and did not fight to ensure that their profits did not go dark. And large funds are spent on an electoral campaign instead of focusing on the organization of defence planning in Ukraine. An example of this is the costly illustration of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In Kirovograd alone, there are about 50 large eight-ton portable accounts worth about 5,000 bracelets each. To place them, they are sometimes used even to dig up trees so that the smile of the applicant's face can be seen more clearly in the President's office. And we in the Supreme Council continue to knock on many laws, knowing in advance that they will not be implemented in our so-called rule of law until we stop capitalizing the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u114	The word is Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u115	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable national MPs, respected compatriots. We're proposing a draft law on the organization of defence planning. What defense planning has so far been in Ukraine. What organization? Eugene Kirilovich, no plane has been bought, no plane in years! Those who are already using the resource. You know about helicopters. You know how the helicopters were headed to Turkey, without the consent of the Supreme Council, our military personnel ended up in the territory of the country of NATO-Turkey, four helicopters. Not a single tank. We can't build Ukraine, we can't build one serious boat. We can't provide Ukrainian priority in Sevastopol yet. They agreed to the disgraceful transfer of parts of the ships to the bottom of the knot. What kind of defense planning organization? Where is Ukraine’s main security threat? The main threat is Bank No. 11 or what it's now called after our victory - Gongadze Street, 11. Thus, the main security threat is the President's Administration. And I suggested to you two years ago, dear colleagues, let's pass the Administration Act or the Office Act, as you like, Mr. President. What? It's still there. Most failed. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's go back to this law. Let's go back, I call you! This law unjustifiably excludes the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the process it is. This law does not determine the order of strategic planning for the deployment of the Armed Forces, the order of planning for the mobilization of the Armed Forces, and the preparation of the country’s territory in case of military action. This law has direct violations of the Constitution of Ukraine. For example, article 4 states that the National Security and Defence Council changes Ukraine’s military doctrine of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But I remind you that it is Parliament that has this right that the Supreme Council has adopted the military doctrine of Ukraine. Furthermore, according to article 85, paragraph 22, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council defines the functions of the Armed Forces and other military formations. What do you say you do? Whether to accept this impeccable conclusion in eight articles is true or not. And I think a mistake was made when the authors of the explanatory note set themselves goals and tasks. It's a means of adapting the national defence system. blowing up the appropriate system that exists in NATO member countries. In NATO countries, patriots sit in presidents' chairs and the administration doesn't run them. But you have to be accepted in the first reading to make the law right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u116	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u117	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, indeed, the adoption of a law that regulates defence planning is necessary. But let's look at why we're doing this today, and we're looking at this bill. The point is that for ten years under the leadership, including former head of the National Security Council, Eugene Marchuk, now the Defence Minister, the Commander-in-Chief, Leonid Danilovich, has destroyed the best weapons samples in Ukraine. Strategic bombers were destroyed, other weapons were destroyed, arms were sold out, and they were transferred to the Russian Federation at no cost. Now we're talking about that we don't have enough new technology to protect our nation. I think the Minister of Defense knows that in order to effectively protect Ukrainian interests and Ukraine, not only requires air defence, but there must be offensive techniques that are effective to defend their national interests, including in the Black Sea area. We socialists believe that in the last 10 years there has been and has been a policy of destroying our defensive power in Ukraine. In Ukraine, there was a better technology in Europe that could protect Ukraine from loving attacks by neighbors. We believe that the law should be adopted in the first reading. But once and for all in Ukraine, it is necessary to change the practice and tactics of trading weapons at the disposal of the Ministry of Defence. When the ministry, instead of doing a lot of research instead of protecting national interests, thinks about how to trade in helicopters, airplanes or firearms, instead of planning and defending the issue of increasing budget funding, dealing with contracts and so on, I think we're not going to go too far. To my conviction, when we adopt the law, we will force the Ministry to report on the plan, thus ensuring that the Ministry of Defence is provided with military technology for the future, but already in the new Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft Defence Planning Act has been completed. We agreed: Nine minutes. Final speech by Defence Minister Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. Please prepare for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to, because I've been sounding information about helicopters, giving the Supreme Council a brief piece of information, and it'll do it in writing today, in detail. Since 2000, every year the Ministry of Defence has provided services in accordance with legislation in the form of firefighting with the participation of helicopters in Ukraine. [[It was three years before my appointment.]] And this activity has been, I say again, since 2000. There were different kinds of tests: legality, legitimacy, convenience, and so forth. They didn't find any violations. The other one. In view of the fact that the Ukrainian Armed Forces provide aviation gas only within two or three percent, I emphasize, 2-3 percent in the Armed Forces, in particular in the ground forces to which helicopters relate, there is a huge problem, it is the flight of hours and the qualifications of aircraft and helicopters. In this connection, an agreement was made at the request of the Turkish party, at the request of the Turkish Defence Minister and the Turkish Embassy in Ukraine to provide services in accordance with the current legislation on fires in Turkey. In fact, in previous years these services were provided to both Portugal and other countries. This was done in accordance with all legal requirements. the legal basis that is today, and no one has detected any violations. Turkey was not assigned a structural unit, nor was it sent to carry out any combat tasks or any other, except those I said. In connection with the destruction and disaster, a service investigation is being conducted with the Turkish side, a service investigation by the Ministry of Defence. Well, you know the Attorney General's office is also in charge of the investigation. Thank you for your attention, but we'd like to ask that we don't get from the media the Secretary of Defense and the Ministry to find out some conclusions that no one's ever reached before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee for acceptance. Change the vote. For Bulb's reasons, please. Please, the microphone. Stepan Bubba, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u121	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Eugene Kirilovich said well about the use of the Armed Forces and individual formations and so forth. But I have before me the conclusion of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine. It says something else. In Ukraine’s Armed Forces and other law-based military formations, there is an opaque and uncontrolled system of dispossessing and implementing immovable property, excessive arms, military and special technology, other property that comes into the state budget’s special fund. And so do we believe in state structures that are designed to control what the executive authorities do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Defence Planning Act. Please vote for acceptance as a basis. [[Registration number 5314]] [[12:57:18]] For-300 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 96, Regions - 48, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, Deminiciatives - People's Government - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 1, Only Ukraine - 1, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 14, Center - 12, Postfraction - 11. Thank you. The draft Law on the State-wide Programme of Patriotic Education for Youth 2004-2008 is being announced for consideration. Secretary of State for Family, Children, and Young Valentina Ivanovna The focal point will be the head of the committee’s subcommittee on youth policy, physical culture, sports and tourism, Ryabík Vladimir Leonidovich. The committee proposes the following rules: for the report, up to five minutes, for the answers to questions, up to five minutes, for the co-report and for the answer to questions, for three minutes, for the discussion and for the decision-making, 10 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on the National Programme for the Patriotic Education of Youth for 2004-2008, which is under consideration today, has been developed to implement your decision since the Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to protect the national interests of the State in the area of national and patriotic education of the young generation and to ensure the conditions for its development. This is evidenced by the public’s general concern about the low level of national awareness of the young generation, the devaluation of patriotism and civic responsibility. According to sociological research, the weight of young people who identify themselves with Ukraine has increased considerably during their years of independence. Today, more than two thirds of such youths are compared to 95 when they were less than half. At the same time, the complexity of national-conscious, patriotic education among young people is evidenced by the fact that, according to a sociological survey in November 2002, they answered the question whether they would like to be born and live in our country for only a few, more than half. Nationalally conscious, patriotic education of young people is closely linked to creating opportunities for the self-implementation of young citizens in all spheres of social life. This is primarily the case with the provision and further development of State guarantees for the rights and interests of young citizens, the promotion of the educational potential of the family, and the cooperation of public authorities and the public. In order to create and develop an integrated system of patriotic education for Ukrainian youth, a project of a state-wide programme of patriotic education for young people was developed at the direction of the Supreme Council. The project is prepared on the basis of proposals made by the district, central executive, district government. The main objectives of the programme are (1) to create a mechanism for the establishment and effective functioning of state systems of patriotic education; this is the formation of patriotic feelings and the national consciousness of young citizens on the basis of pride for their country and its historical acquisitions, for example the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian people for independence; this is the upbringing of a patriotic citizen who is aware of the relationship between ideas of individual freedom. human rights and its civic responsibility are ready to participate in the process of State-building and protection of the State's interests; it is the formation of a legislative, regulatory and organizational and organizational framework for the functioning of the system of patriotic education for young people. Among the expected results of implementation, the programme identified, in particular in socio-ideological terms, an increase based on the best traditions of the Ukrainian people in the process of forming a humanistic world view in youth. the priority of high, moral, cultural, public values; socio-economically, ensuring the interest of society in the development of the national economy in the area of national security, the increased desire of young people to serve in the armed forces of Ukraine, their willingness to protect Ukraine, the preservation of the development of the glorious military and labour traditions of the Ukrainian people. The project contains seven sections. The project was discussed on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have received a series of comments that will be taken into account when developing annual measures to implement this conceptual document. Once again, I want to point out that there is a conceptual, conceptual program and it foresees that, during its implementation, appropriate laws, legal and regulatory documents will be developed, organizational work will be done, appropriate programs will be created, and appropriate institutions will be set up, based on the implementation of the annual measures, to implement the conceptual, conceptual programme on the state-wide programme on the patriotic upbringing of young people for 2004-2008. With the bill you're all familiar with, please support this bill as a concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u124	Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions to the Minister, please sign in, please, please, for five minutes, please sign in. Give me the names of the national deputies on the sign-up board. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question? We've had a deal with you for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u125	Valentina Ivanovna, you said this Law was a concept. Well, then it had to be called a concept, not a patriotic education program. And let me doubt that this is just a program of patriotic parenting. What kind of patriotic upbringing can we talk about if neither the retinal archers, the Cossacks, the Hyderamacas, or the soldiers of the UPA are mentioned, nothing about the sixties, the class, the children’s organizations? After all, what kind of upbringing, when Dmitri Tobacco lies, is that 200,000 visitors to the Shevchenk Reserve in Canoe. I am there every year and every year, and I can say that he is lying, that the Ministry of Education has actually made a barrier, which is, of course, 300 km away. I mean, even as a concept, I think it needs to be reworked, and it can't be adopted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u126	Dear National Deputy, once again, I repeat that the draft Law on the National Programme of Patriotic Education for Youth, it does indeed have a conceptual character, because it does not provide for concrete measures to create 20 Clubs of Patriotic Education, it does not foresee holding appropriate festivals, it does not foresee introduction during education of any programme. Because it's impossible to do that. The draft law provides for basic conceptual approaches to the patriotic and national education of young people. And they're supposed to be here. I want to remind you, by opening this program, that this is about the formation of patriotic feelings and the national consciousness of young citizens based on examples of the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian people. I'm still reading. It envisions improving the training system, retraining institutions for the patriotic upbringing of young people, including on the basis of the role of the history of Cossacks in our Ukraine. We need to read this draft of the national program very carefully. And every year, if you support this bill, I very much ask you to do that, then every year you and I will develop programs that are very specific about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u127	Phydenka, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u128	Dear Valentina Ivanovna. I have listened carefully to your report, and I want to support you in this regard, that we absolutely need to develop the concept of patriotic education for young people. A tragedy for Ukraine: Young people today do not want to live in Ukraine today. No one wants to live in Ukraine today. But something has to be done, saved, and started with the young. Along with the fact that your concept, in my view, is of a cutting-off nature. You want in an empty place completely without taking into account the historic parliamentarians of our, the measurements, our historical tradition, except for the Cossacks. And scarves won't save Ukraine today, you know? That's not it. At the same time, we're going to celebrate the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War, here. Today we celebrate a day of guerrilla glory throughout Ukraine. Let us base ourselves on these traditions. Why, for something like that. And the rest of us, what is sacred to us, are afraid to say for him. I'd like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u129	Thank you very much. A great deal of comments have been made in the committee discussions, and we will certainly take them into account. Thank you very much for your position. Well, you know, it's just not possible to count everything. However, the concept on the first page provides, in fact, for the patriotic upbringing of young people in examples of the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian people and especially during the Great Homeland War, I read the second page.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u130	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u131	Clearly, the propaganda of cruelty, ingenuity, violence had a negative effect on the growing generation. This has given rise to indifference, selfishness, disrespect for the state, and social institutions in the youth environment. Given this, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine is ready to support the government's proposal to approve such an important programme. But the proposed document is too eloquent, I would say, even for the concept. And I think that's what it takes for the authors of this project to notice, because the general slogans and calls today just don't fix the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u132	Thank you so much for your position and support. I want to say that the concept provides for the development of measures to prevent the promotion of the cult of violence, cruelty, and non-spirituality. That's the first one. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, last year we were looking at a project of a state support program for young people. And he was also conceptual, complex, systemic. And you supported him, thank you very much. What this gave us. This has given us the opportunity to develop completely concrete measures already this year, by the way, with the participation of many, many people's deputies. And to include these measures in funding already in 2004. All your suggestions you make, offer or offer after we have worked out this document between the first and the second readings, we will certainly consider. And in particular, I would like to report that, with the aim of combating the propaganda of violence, pornography, especially in children's computer clubs and so on, the Ministry, together with civil society, youth organizations, has developed a cybernife programme that blocks the access of minors to such programs. And now we're providing all the clubs with a place like this. And we're going to bring to your attention the amendments to the Child Protection Act to place responsibility on local authorities for banning the implementation of such programs in children's and youth institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u133	Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna. Time's up. Please sit down. Out of procedure, please, Shibko. Vladimir Leonidovich, we've already determined the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u134	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have such a complexity that I have the right to ask a question -- one minute, and the answer can be an hour or two, three or four. Why don't we just take it to the Rules so we can answer for one minute? I think one minute is enough for everyone to answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u135	I think that's a good offer. Let's just make sure the reporters take this situation into account, because as long as we bring it in, it's going to take a lot of time. I'm sorry, I said, "Rubikin." Rubik Volodymyr Leonidovich. Please, your report. It's a report, more specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The project identifies the main ways of developing the system of patriotic education for young people in Ukraine and identifies its place in the system of other legislative acts in Ukraine. The adoption of the draft program in the first reading is no doubt vital to the future of our country. Because today, at the 14th year of our independence, 43 percent of young people, unfortunately, answer the question, "Would you like to be born and live in another country? - answer, yes. We would like to be born and live in a country other than Ukraine." Sadly, a large part of young people have indifference, selfishness, individualism, cynicism, disrespect for the state, and social institutions. So, no doubt, the patriotic upbringing of a growing generation in Ukraine is one of the components of the nation’s national security, and it is important to ensure the latter. It was this thesis that was decisive in the development of the National Programme for the Patriotic Education of Youth for 2004-2008. The drafters realized that the aim of the programme would be to create and develop a comprehensive system of patriotic education for Ukrainian youth, which, based on the formation of patriotic feelings and consciousness, would help to address the challenges of social consolidation, to support the country's social and economic stability, to strengthen the unity and friendship of the peoples living in Ukraine, to help build the Ukrainian state. It was clear that the aim of the programme was to create a mechanism for the establishment and effective functioning of the State system of patriotic education of the growing generation, to raise a patriotic citizen who, conscious of the relationship between the ideas of individual freedom, human rights and its civic responsibility, would be ready to participate in the process of nationalizing and protecting the national interests of Ukraine, to recognize the youth of our nation's spiritual unity of generations and the social spiritual, cultural heritage. Regrettably, most of these positions have yet to be fully integrated into the project. It is also necessary to recognize the declarative nature of the individual provisions proposed by the government of the program. They need to clarify the mechanism of implementation and to put it into practice. It is difficult to disagree with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which draws attention to the fact that the bill lacks measures to support young culture masters, to promote national art festivals, and does not give sufficient attention to the problem of raising young people with respect for Ukrainian language, national symbolism. This is where we need to work on the program in the second reading. In the final version of the Law, the patriotic upbringing of young people should look like a complex, systematic and purposeful activity of public authorities and local governments of public organizations, families, and other social institutions for the formation of a young generation. Consciousness. I would like to point out that, when this program is being prepared, its government is unfortunately without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u137	Allow me to complete the opinion of the co-rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u138	The government has taken steps to resolve this problem, and our parliamentary committee has had to take decisions twice on the return to the issue. Surely the program is imperfect, and it needs substantial work, but we need to know that this decision has been taken by the Supreme Council to entrust the government with the development of this program. And if we do not accept the program in the first reading today, we can say that we will not have such a program in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u139	Thank you. Oh, a question, please. Please write down the question for 3 minutes. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Mikhailo Rodionov is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u140	I have two questions for you, Your Honor. First. Not really. When you read this program, didn't you have such a keen sense of retro that it was written somewhere in the mid-'60s? If you delete two notions that are used once or twice "national consciousness" and once again "characterized goat" don't you know that this is a document that could have been adopted somewhere in 75-76. And the second question. As far as I know, the SDPU doesn't vote. So are you going to vote for this program or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u141	Thank you. I'm reporting on behalf of the committee, the parliamentary committee. As far as the program is concerned, I have already said that the program is not perfect and, in my view, it needs substantial work. But we need to understand, as Comrade Carmazin said, that there are a very large number of experts in our Hall of Workers of the Supreme Council who can make this program the kind of program that Ukrainian youth need today. And we have to do it. If we don't accept this program today, we're putting it off for a term in the future. As for me personally, I will vote for this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u142	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u143	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Honorable Rapporteur! I'd like to ask you for your personal opinion on patriotic education. What is it, we know. But do you think you can do patriotic education on the basis of anti - education? Ideology to date, the official ideology in Ukraine is anti-communism. Take all the history books and read them well. There's all that was wrong, and that's how they say the rest is good. But not even a scientist will say it's an anti-education. What about your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u144	I agree with you that, unfortunately, we have 14 years of independence and Ukraine is still an unforeseeable country. Our country's history is not yet written as it is. Today, unfortunately, and in our room, there is what is seen as an attitude to our history, to ideology, as a contradiction. We don't admit it yet. That we have a history like that, that we were heroes among those who fought in the troops of Kovpak, and among those who fought for Ukraine's independence in other troops, formations, we are not moving forward, or we will have to divide Ukraine, and it will not exist within the boundaries that exist today, it will divide it into the West, because there are some heroes in the East, or we will come to the conclusion that we have one country, one people, we will build a "civil society", and then we will move forward. We have a story, it's not always nice, not everyone likes it. One doesn't like one story, the other doesn't like another story. But this is our story, this is our people, and this, we don't need
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u145	Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction of Dneproperty. The distinguished rapporteur, I would like to continue with the thought now expressed by my colleague of the Rodions. Please tell me that this is all your reflections on history, everything else, and you have a practical task ahead of you, so far you need to put together this program to make it comfortable for us to adopt it on the Supreme Council. Tell me what you have in practice, so that we can take into account the political interests of the various political groups that exist in Ukraine today? What conceptually can you already suggest in order to draw up this practical program? How can all of this be combined in the process of patriotic education when there are communists, monarchists, socialists and so on and so forth?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u146	I have partly answered your question about what needs to be done in this regard. With regard to further work, let's vote on first reading, it will come to us on the Committee, I think it will be supported. Many deputies would like to participate and we would sooner or later embark on a normal programme that would be effective and normally adopted by Ukraine's youth and the people of Ukraine. And so I'm going to have to report to you as a scientist for about half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u147	Yes. Thank you, time's up. Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. We agreed on 10 minutes, discussion, decision-making. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u148	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština They were caught up in patriotic training when, as the people say, they cut wood. Well, of course, better late than never. Only today have young people been brought up, using the experience and achievements of past generations. Why, then, did the antinational authorities destroy the valuable publications of the Russian and Ukrainian classics? I happened to witness a tragedy when the graduates of the fourth city school, when they fled the school yard, cried tears in their eyes to save them from the works of art literature that they were exporting to destruction. One young man fell into hiding a reading book in a beautiful portrait of Lenin. Can we find a patriot today who would cry for the book? Probably not. What morals were sown during 13 years of independence? It is a cult of violence, cruelty, ingenuity, banditry, drug abuse, and alcohol. There is no time in the country to think about young people. They are all busy producing alcoholic beverages and beer. You see the honor of "The Shells," which in turn produces 100,000 bottles of high-quality beer, "The Shell." Why is there no information on how many apartments are built for young people or how many pairs of shoes are made for the change, how many sports suits are worn for young people? And what kind of moral trait in a young man can be raised by a TV show called Windows? Why don't we put on films for young people with a really educational meaning, "There are some old people going to fight," "And the stars are quiet here," "Volunteers" and others. And look who's in the labor colonies and investigative isolations? Young people. Count the number of serious crimes committed by young people, how many young people have gone to work, and the best years are lost when they arrive with a dozen diseases. That's not what the authorities see. He sees better, but he needs to destroy the young generation. In the preelection program, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka has a significant role for young people, which says that the State will assume the obligation to employ young professionals, to receive free education, and to provide medical services. Any young family in need of housing will receive credit for its acquisition. We Communists support a state-wide program of patriotic education for young people, and we will demand that it be in operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Novak, the Communist faction. He will be followed by Melniczuk Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u150	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The proposed programme identifies the main ways of developing the system of patriotic education for young people and identifies its place in the system of other legislative acts. I think this document is framed, but it deserves to be accepted. I would like to look at this problem a little bit on the other side: Who should be carrying out this program? Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, don't you think the voice of Parliament has been underestimated? That we're here, in this room, making decisions that are very often the government's fault will only remain on paper. As an example, not so long ago, you and I have decided to celebrate the century since the birth of a prominent humanist writer named Mikola Ostrovsky, a man whose life has become an example of serving his countryman, a true patriot! Even an orgcommittee led by Mr. Tobacco was created. But the entire work of the committee was called to the notes of the vice-premier that there was no repair of the Isle Fund Museum in the government. Mr. Tobacco reported that he had consulted with the administration, the Chercas district administration, on this matter. Academic, a true patriot of Ukraine, Mr. Tobacco doesn't even know that the Isle Museum isn't in Chercas, it's in Hmelnick. And contrary to the Supreme Council Order, which provided for the allocation of funds for the repair of the museum, which was entered into the UNESCO catalogue, the museum to the Jubilee was never completely repaired. It was only out of the goodwill of the members of the district council, who had allocated funds from the meagre district budget, that cosmetic repairs were carried out. In government, money is for anything but a problem of patriotic parenting. Or another problem. An example of true patriotism was shown by our Olympics, celebrating Ukraine with successful performances at the Athens Olympic Games. But the government didn't act more competitively. As it turns out, the Olympics have no place to pay the promised monetary rewards. Of the 20 million needed. There are only a few million dollars worth of premium money, and the rewards were promised on behalf of the state, that is, of us, of all Ukrainian citizens. Where did the money go? The question is, at what cost did the Ukrainian officials play on the excellent liner Rotterdam-200? These are examples of patriotism in which we are going to raise people. Now, tell me, honourable voters, in which country, where virtually everything is built, in a country where virtually everything built on deception can be brought up by true patriots?Oh, my God! We Communists, our presidential candidate, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, are constantly stressing that we need an honest authority to serve our people who will need real patriots. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u151	Thank you. Melniczuk has the word. And two minutes to go, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u152	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The project identifies the main ways of developing a system of patriotic education for young people in Ukraine. It defines its place in the system of other legislative acts of Ukraine and is calculated for 4 years. One year can be said - it's already gone. But, dear friends, what patriotic upbringing can we talk about in our country? Where are the double standards for lying to young people as well as to society through the media, where the total looting of the people is taking place?Oh, my God! On what patriotism will we be raising our young today? I'll stop at the village youth. Please, 80 percent of the young people in the village today are unemployed. Does she have the opportunity to get an education if she doesn't have the money? And in the village today, they're not in any family, we'll talk, they're gone. Can rural youths get a higher education, a secondary education? Where were the PTUs that prepared the machinery for agriculture? Yet, an agrarian complex that had been destroyed had left unemployed and young people who today have nothing to do in the countryside. So what can we talk about?Oh, my God! And in general, I agree with colleagues who say that such a program, yes, is needed. And the committee on this point said that we needed to support it. But should this program provide an answer, on what basis can we train our young people? To those who today have built this thieving power, to rob the people, to deceive the people, to take the last in men and trusts, and so on, and so on, and all that, you understand. Let's wait until October 31st. I'm sure there's a good program for this, and there's Alexander Frost for the support of young people. And I think after October 31st, you can have a program that really suits the interests that young people have today. But we won't be in a hurry, my dear. Next. Quicker to just take something. vote, and what will it do for young people? It is unlikely that young people will receive some meaningful support. I am not talking about alcoholism, drug addiction, crime, and so on. We already know that. That's what gave birth to that power that is today. which we say needs to be changed by this political system of power, we need to do everything we can to get the criminals out of their own chairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u153	Yeah, we've got two minutes left. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin The faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u154	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials! The program text is certainly not the best, but. But we must take steps to make the Ukrainians proud of Ukraine today. There's nothing to be proud of. But not our leaders, unfortunately, our nation, but they should be proud of our leaders, our nation. If we try to convince them that a number of times the people who do justice and a number of times the cases are not proved, that's a good thing. And we're going to write, because, and 500 bucks to give a militia to protect the Kirovograd area, is that patriotic education? No! No! They have to trust their President! Trust your Prime Minister! And I have nothing to do with the Minister. She's doing her job honestly. I propose that you accept this program in the first reading. But I suggest you do this, here's the financial justification on page 6 of the financial security program. There's nothing in this program without financial security. All the funding goes to the polls today, and you know it. So this has to be written down: the government's protocol commission to the Budget Committee is to ensure that funding is provided in the State Budget, because the Budget Code says that there is a need for justification and that this should be accepted by August 15th. We didn't accept that. But you can't do it without it. We have to make a national reconciliation, show both UPA troops, and show the patriots of others, and that's where previous generations were raised. And to make national reconciliation, as has been the case in many countries, and to raise the patriotism of our citizens, to make them proud that they live in the best country in the world. I'm in favour of this program, although it's got a lot of flaws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm sorry, but we still have to listen to the argument about the draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Law on the State Program on Patriotic Education for Youth 2004-2008. Please, Andrew School, author of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u156	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to stress first why it should be unacceptable and completely disagree with the previous speaker. You can't take the concept of a program that doesn't contain anything except the word "patriotic upbringing." You know, it's like in the East saying, as long as we don't repeat the word "halva," it won't be sweeter in our mouth. Similarly, no matter how many times we write the word "patriotically" here, this program has absolutely nothing to do with patriotism. It's just an osmosis. And I can certainly say that the surest way is to reject, accept and propose to the government once again to prepare a programme of patriotic education, not anti-patriotically, believe me. Because here, apart from the declarations, there are other innovations that no one knows about in this room. Do you know that Ukraine is a political state? How long has this been going on? This shows that Ukrainians are a minority in Ukraine. Is that what I understand? No, maybe a minority of Ukrainians mentally, but we're talking about a census. The last census speaks of 75 percent. What kind of polyethnism are we talking about? In Poland, 30 percent, I would stress, 30 percent of the worry. Does anyone know about this from you? You came to Poland, someone told you they lived in a political state? It's a monoethnic state. It's a nation of the title nation, that's what we need to talk about. About reconciliation. The word here is not about reconciliation, it says that the upbringing of young people should take place in the struggle of the Ukrainian people for independence, especially during the Great Homeland War. What's that? What period? It's completely incomprehensible. And I'm not talking about increasing the patriotic work, spending days and moons of the patron of the country, the watch of memory, the search. But this is the 1960s. What are you talking about? What you can talk about here is the concept of nationalism. The term "national idea" is mentioned. Why? It's not deciphered or explained. So I'm going to stress that patriotism is the love of the country. Let's talk like that. Who. Who's there? Which of the program's developers sings the National Anthem when it echoes? No one. Who. You're talking about 43 percent want to be born in another state. Who's to blame? The President and his surroundings! Here comes a representative of the Presidential faction and says, "people don't want to live here, children young, young people don't want to live." So you are guilty that you have led the state to the state that it is ashamed to live in, to be ashamed of its citizen. No one is proud of the past or the future of this nation. So what can we talk about? This program cannot be accepted on either the first or the second reading. In view of everything else. So I emphasize that here we have to say, to give a clear answer to one -- which state we're building. Whether it's a nation that raises pride for itself in its citizens, or it's a state that raises contempt for itself. To government institutions and factors. We have to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u157	Thank you. Question completed. We will now proceed to the vote. On the basis of the vote of Samolik, please. Head of the Committee, Catherine Seminal. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to talk to all my colleagues. We also made a lot of comments when we discussed this issue with the committee. But apart from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need our State's Patriotic Education Program no one can accept it by generalizing all your comments and all your suggestions. And that's why I'm addressing everyone and the factions that are blocking today's session. We need to accept this program. You see, we've had enough here in the Supreme Council to support the Olympics and what results we have. That is why everything cannot be noticed and the right to understand what a patriot of Ukraine is and how to love Ukraine cannot be privatized. Please support all of you in the first reading, until the second reading we will work perfectly on this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I am voting on a draft decree on the non-admissibility of the draft Law on State-wide Programme of Patriotic Education for Youth 2004-2008. The decision was based on the school. I ask the people's deputies to determine how to vote. [[13:36:29]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! Before you put the committee's proposal to the vote, let me have two words. First. Patriotism is the most expensive commodity today. We need to make it not a commodity, but an effective position for everyone. We say patriotism is the love of the Fatherland. That's not enough, that's enough. We need to materialize this love for our homeland in practical ways, for we can simply love and observe and complain. The second moment or the third moment that Catherine Semenovna said. I fully agree with the fact that if we don't, we, the Supreme Council, the program, the specific program of patriotic education for young people, no one will. So that's the offer, the honourable colleagues, and the request to you. We're going to realize that we're all, we're going to take the basis, we're going to create a working group, we're going to take all the proposals and we're going to create a document that meets the general needs that exist in society. So I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Law on State Education for Youth 2004-2008, registration number 4593. Please vote. [[13:37:58]] For 264 Decision taken. Factions: "Our Ukraine," I read "for" - 66, Ukraine - 56, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 1, Labour Ukraine - 0, People's agrarian - 19, SPI - 19, Timoshenko - 0, Union - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 3, NDP industry, entrepreneurs - 17, Center - 14, Democratic Initiatives, People's 0, non-fractional - 11. Dear colleagues, let us write down a protocol commission for the Committee: to form a working group with the participation of all representatives of interested MPs and factions to process this document and to present it for consideration by the Supreme Council for approval on second reading and finally as the Law. No objections? Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the ratification section. We need to look at two ratification papers, if necessary, I'd ask that we continue the morning session for 15 minutes. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on liquidation, the procedure for the return of aviation technology at the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence repairs. Deputy Minister of Defence, Timothy Igor Volodymyrovich, co-reporter will speak with the Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich. I'd like to ask very briefly. There's three minutes to inform, if there's a question, within three minutes, then the committee has a similar discussion, 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on liquidation, the procedure for the return of aviation technology at the Ukraine Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation was developed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. In line with the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice and the implementation of section "e" of part two of the ninth article of the Ukrainian Law "On International Contracts" in connection with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Customs Code on 1 January 2004, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of the adoption of the law. The adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian law will allow for legislative regulation, and this is very important, the process of liquidation of the Russian Federation aviation technology in repair companies in Ukraine, the return of disposal products to the Russian Federation and, most importantly, to Ukraine, this is the transfer of Ukrainian RD-33 engines that are now urgently needed for Ukraine that are being repaired at Russian Federation enterprises to Ukraine. The draft law of Ukraine was approved by interested ministries and other central executive bodies without notice, approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 924 on approval and ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this Agreement and approved by the National Security and Defence Committee. It is proposed that the draft law be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u161	Any questions, Your Honor? Three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u162	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, I don't know why you didn't give economic justification for the transfer. I can't understand why the jet engines in Ukraine are owned by the Russian Federation without any compensation? And that's when you don't ratify the zero option and you don't return to Ukraine its share of the diamond fund because of the border ownership of the former Soviet Union. I've read these documents. And in fact, Ukraine is transferring property to the Russian Federation on page 51, and Ukraine is listed as property on page 28. I think these are huge values. Why is there no economic justification? Where are the national interests of Ukraine in this covenant? In two words, the national interests of Ukraine are explained to us. That's my question. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u163	Thank you for asking. The thing is, in this case, it's not about parity. It's about regulating the mutual property return process that's in the Russian and Ukrainian defence repair companies accordingly. Today, as far as economic justification is concerned, the Russian Ministry of Defense's non-repaired enterprises have 26 engines used on Mig-29 planes. The final cost of these engines is 6.2 million. That's right. Moreover, they are, as I mentioned in my report, extremely relevant to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. That is what economic interests are all about, above all. And I say again, it's about a civilized settlement of one state's property return process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u164	Yes, Novak, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u165	Vladimir Novak, Ukrainian Communist faction. Please give the word to a colleague of the Phydenk Stanislaw faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u166	Stanislaw Phydenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u167	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Igor Volodymyrovich, there is a large aircraft repair plant in Lutsk. In Soviet times, it was one of the most perhaps large or well - known in the Soviet Union. The luthans could not sleep, so the turbines swayed so much when they were tested, that is, the work boiling there. Today, the factory’s work has been completely neglected in recent years, but what is strange? The state-funded factory is well-renovated, it's a super-modern-looking enterprise. Someone from Kiev, you know, either by permission of the Ministry of Defense or other than yourself, has privatized it beautifully and today, of course, there is no work going on there. But this is the basis for our industry. I'd like to ask you, is this a state-owned factory, or has someone really privatized it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about this matter. But for today, we are discussing the return of aviation assets to businesses. In this case, it's an enterprise, an airline, that's in the White Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u169	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u170	The national agrarian party of Ukraine is clear. However, according to the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the ratification of Ukraine’s international treaties is carried out through the adoption of a law on ratification, an integral part of which is the text of an international treaty. That is to say, it is essential that the bill contains the very text of the agreement on the liquidation and order of the return of aviation technology in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. Why, then, does the bill contain only the name of the treaty that is proposed to be ratified? But it does not contain the text of the covenant itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u171	The law actually mentions the name of the treaty, and the covenant itself is added, was filed with the Supreme Council along with all the documents, it can't be, a treaty, part of the law, as far as I can tell. It is, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, actually, the deal itself is here. It is, please look. Doesn't anyone have papers for that? There's a deal. Please be seated, time is running out. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, Head of the National Security and Defence Committee. He has the word for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u173	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The problem under consideration is the echo of 13 years ago, when those who destroyed the great Allied State by signing the Belarusian documents under a drunken bench did not care about solving the very important issues that arose. First of all, how to deal with the enormous military potential of the former Soviet Union republics, including military fleets, nuclear weapons, and means of delivery. A diamond fund, property of the Soviet Union, assets and liabilities abroad, labour savings of citizens in the Savings institutions, and so on. Among them is the question of the fate of heavy bombers such as TU-95, equipped with nuclear weapons, as well as other aviation technology, which is marked in the instruments added to the Ratification Act. I would like to remind you, dear friends, how these bombers were eliminated. Well, first of all, we didn't need them, we had to sell them. Russia offered a certain amount for them. We said, "A little." And now we've essentially given away some of this technology for nothing. It needs to be repaired now. An international agreement provides for the dismantling and disposal of heavy bombers in the city of Bila Church, as well as the mutual transfer by the parties of aircraft engines, equipment, and other components of aviation technology that are located in repair companies. This technique, I would stress, is fully listed in the appendix to the agreement. Since the customs of aviation technology that is being transferred through the border under the agreement is to be carried out without the imposition of customs duties and the application of non-tariff regulations, the agreement should be ratified by the Supreme Council, as explained by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The committee proposes the adoption of an appropriate law. This will settle another issue that has some effect on the relationship between our nations. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u174	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Please, do we need to discuss this? Give me 10 minutes. For a discussion of nine, well, and with a decision taken, ten. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Yavorowski. Please turn on Michael Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u175	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The need for ratification. I'll give my part of the minute to Comrade Shibka, the National MP, so he can have some of his thoughts. I would just like to stop at the following question. We parliamentarians need to know how much we have of this kind of technique, because we know that very much of the technology that's in the repairs will never come back, because it's either repaired and already sold, that our civil society in Ukraine doesn't know, or somewhere else these helicopters are flying. I'll give you one example on the Chernites alone. A well-known national MP sat in a bunker in Chernivsky and organized such a good one, let's talk, a haven. [[I'm not going to call it a faction.]] In order to fly the route in the Chernobyl area, and then after its voyage, they're being redeemed, it's the pain in the Carpathians, the places that are very attractive. In recent times, helicopters have been flying around the Kalinów Market in Chernivts. They may also be preparing to buy out entrepreneurs who work there and all. And now I just want to give my word to my colleague Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u176	Turn on the Sybka Vitalia Jakovitch microphone. It's 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u177	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like that. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our committee has not considered this question, it is in the order of the day for today at 4 p.m. I don't know why it was pointed out that it was discussed at a committee meeting. Therefore, and according to the Supreme Council Committee Act, do we have reason to consider the matter today? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u178	The National Security and Defence Committee made a decision on September 14th, as far as I know. Yavorovsky gave the floor to Manchulenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u179	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! In fact, I support the ratification of this agreement, because this problem needs to be addressed. But of course, there is still a certain circle of problems that are not finally settled. The point is that the previous edition referred to by those who have drafted this Treaty on International Treaties of Ukraine and who have argued, and the new edition of the Law on International Treaties of Ukraine stipulates that if certain legislative changes are to take place, draft laws should be submitted that need to be amended. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. We can also talk a lot about the distribution of assets and liabilities of the former Union, we can talk about the distribution of the diamond fund, we can also talk about the fraternal division of the Black Sea fleet, and what we have today, and the debts of the Black Sea fleet before the budget of the city of Sevastopol, and about the so-called zero option signed by the former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Massol, who is the result of which we have so far and cannot finally resolve with Russia the problems of the distribution of assets and liabilities of the former Soviet Union. This is where the technical plan becomes a problem. Maybe the aviation experts will discuss it with me, but I've been talking to them about the future plane TU-95 and changing it to carry other types of weapons. This depends on the choice of leadership of our country, which it is today, we see where President Kuchma led us with the current acting Prime Minister Janukovic. This too needs to be discussed and considered and discussed openly. The problem is, it's definitely not settled. And this deal is a small segment of resolving the problems that there are today and maybe we should use them. But if such agreements are to be prepared, then the legal side needs to be fully upheld, so that there are no questions, including that our experts don't give scientific advice, either, because it's an international legal document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I will not vote in favour of ratifying this law. And I'll explain why I won't do it. Not just because there's no economic justification for this transmission. As if it were the property of the Russian Federation of the Union. So why ratify the treaty with the Supreme Council's decision. Because it's a matter of selling Ukrainian interests. Of course, the question is to be rejected. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our government, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Russian Federation have adopted such an agreement on the order of interaction in the export of military supplies to third countries. And this treaty was not ratified, it was approved by Ukrainian government decree No. 379 of March 24, 2004. On what basis was the right of the Supreme Council and the exclusive right of the Supreme Council usurped? On what grounds has it not been submitted to the Supreme Council to ratify the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on military and technical cooperation since May 26, 93. Which is the basic document for the agreement as defined here between the government and the government of the Russian Federation. Finally, here on a case-by-case basis, there is a reference to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine of December 22, 93, which is still in force under the law of July 29, 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly oppose the fact that we are selling the national interests of Ukraine. And not us? These names are known to Kuchma and Yanukovic. For example, what was the purpose of destroying missiles? It was possible to remove warheads and launch them with communication satellites. So far, there's a Microsoft Bill Gates project that's working on a low-orbit project around the globe in a few hundred satellites to provide global, bilateral, broadband telecommunications. Thanks to this, we could have access to cheap communication even in remote mountain villages. And we could have money that is not enough to fill the state budget today. Honorable National MPs. I believe that the national interests of Ukraine must be protected. All agreements with the Russian Federation need to be carefully and thoroughly studied as well as with other countries, and the government needs to prepare for this. To prepare and teach how to do this, as well as to teach our committees, to study the materials that I have, I've completely studied all the documents that we've been given, shows that today consciously I can't vote for, I've already seen the Ukrainian interest in the destruction of missiles, the destruction of nuclear weapons and everything else. I'm not going to satisfy either Russian or American interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u182	Yes. Andrew Schlell introduced a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Law that we are discussing. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u183	Thank you. Andrew School, Timoshenko Cell Block. I would like to point out that, in principle, a representative of the government was speaking and I was impressed by this, it's like a preamble to say that the Russian Federation just sponsored the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian state, well, of course, it happens often, often. We remember her sponsoring such desires in order to ensure that Ukraine did not need to maintain five planes to its territory. It's probably hard to hold on to, and there's also some sponsoring stuff. They were from the Russian Federation. You agree with that, don't you? So is this covenant. We're switching engines to planes. So, of course, why do we have these planes, well, keep them, teach them how to fly them, and the engines set them up, and they're standing. So here, in principle, I'm always surprised that we're taking this and not paying attention to these sponsoring powers of our neighboring states. Romania also wanted to take over the island of Snakes. Because it needs to be maintained, infrastructure is built there, money is invested, and Romania is taking the island and making it easier. Russia wanted to take Tuzlu away, and now we have to reintroduce it, balance it, look for funds, give it all away, nothing will have to be maintained. This is going to be a very convenient compensation for everything. So once again, it's us, who will vote, who will vote in favour of ratifying the agreement from Ukraine's deposit, at least part, of the Ukrainian sovereignty. Anyone who's gonna press the pros button. There is no economic justification. How so? You come to the Supreme Council, to the higher legislature, you talk about a huge economic advantage, but there's no economic justification. This also raises a question. Let's see if there's a law, if it's about the Criminal Code, it's going to be a committee of your motherhood and childhood. Yeah? Is there any other committee, after all? We have three committees working on legislation. So it was absolutely logical to ask a committee member why he did not pass this law by an appropriate committee? I respect all committees, but at least two committees were to be passed here. The definition of identity is another question. At least. Or three committees. That's not what happened. So I have a reasonable foreboding of what a cat is offering us in a bag. And if this is suggested in a report, I take some caution and urge the national MPs to treat it with caution, too. That's why I'm going to stress. There is no economic advantage here. Here's the same motivation as hijacking planes. Speaking to you, it'll be easier to keep them, they'll be all in us, it'll be all right, the Russian army is expanding, Ukrainian is being destroyed, so let's help you build up or destroy armies, they haven't been identified there, because there's no economic justification. We don't know exactly what they're offering, why they're helping us. So the cleanest way is to reject and support my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, in the development of Andrew School, one minute, we obviously have all the documents to transmit to the Maternal and Childhood Committee so that this committee can carry all the other committees. Since July 14, these documents have been on foreign committees, budgetary. Generally, all bills are sent to the Committee on European Integration. I think they could if they sore for the national interests of Ukraine, consider and make their comments and suggestions to the Main Committee. The main issue is the committee led by Georgi Korniovich Kručkov. Please, Georgi Korniyovich. It's a motive. Then Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u185	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Budget Committee has considered the bill and has concluded that the implementation of this agreement will not affect either the profit or the cost of our budget. So this part is considered and solved, and the others need to be considered. And then you don't have to look for something. This is a completely understandable situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u186	Thank you. Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u187	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine It seems to me that when we make final decisions, we do not always listen to or carefully read the findings of the Chief Expert, Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. Note, for example, that the need to ratify the agreement is based on a reference to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, which has become obsolete, lost the validity of the law, and we are considering an agreement that needs to be adopted. Let's go, let's go. Ukraine's International Contracts Act requires that, in the event of an international treaty being ratified, drafts of such laws should be submitted together with the draft Law on Ratification and adopted at the same time. And there's a breach. I think we can make other arguments and conclude that we can't accept this agreement, we can't ratify it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u188	Yes, this is Deputy Secretary of Defense Timothy Igor Volodymyrovich. Please, very briefly, generalizing your vision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u189	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The only thing I'd like to pay attention to, and once again, I've been talking about this in my speech: we don't change planes to engines, we take repair engines from Ukraine. We're returning elements to the Russian Federation after the disposal, the disposal of the bombers. I'm saying once again, and I'm stressing that there's an economic benefit for Ukraine, I've called specific figures, they exist in materials that are passed on to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u190	Yes, Pinzenik, please for reasons and we will vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u191	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've over-politicized a simple technical document, where it's a simple technical operation -- the replacement of engines that belong, the exchange of engines that belong to the Ukrainian or Russian side. This is an absolute decision that we must support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am putting to the vote the draft decree on the non-admissibility of the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on liquidation, the procedure for the return of aviation technology in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. Registration number of draft regulation 0209/b. I'm asking the people's deputies to identify themselves. I'm talking about inadmissibility. [[14:04:57]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, before voting, I would ask you to listen to Victor Pinzenic's argument, and to read the comments that the Scientific and Experimental Authority has given us. If we don't ratify, the government will make a decision and make a decision. And so we can provide parliamentary control. So I'm voting on the approval of the law, the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the liquidation and order of the return of aviation technology at the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation, registration number 0209. Please vote. [[2:05:55]] For 177 The factions, please. I've come to the realization that the "Regions of Ukraine" doesn't need this document. "Our Ukraine" - in 57, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, "Trug Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPO - 9, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The Union" - 0, "The One Ukraine" - 1, NDP industrialists and entrepreneurs - 12, "Centre" - 13, "Democratic Initiatives and Peoples" - 0, non-fractional - 7. The decision is not taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes is being announced for consideration. All the relevant conclusions on this point are. No warning? I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes. Registration number 0210. Please vote. [[14:07:18]] For 221 The decision is not. Well, vote on two bills! Who's in favour of going back to the draft law's registration number 0210, please vote. [[2:07:55]] For 225 Dear colleagues, this is a project of cooperation with Thailand. Did you realize that this is Russia? I'm voting for a return to this bill, 0210. Please vote. About working with Thailand. [[14:08:26]] For 238. I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes. 0210. Please vote. [[14:08:58]] For the 250. Decision taken. One moment, dear fellows. Now, now, one minute! There is. We voted. As for the draft agreement with Russia, I'm going to put it to a vote. Who's to go back to the draft of this law? It's 0209. Please vote. [[14:09:36]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's take a very brief look at the project of Chernevski, because. Please. It's a temporary bill. We continued for 15 minutes, dear colleagues. The draft Law on the Temporary Procedure for the Execution of Criminal Sentences in the form of a Penal Code, article 212 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, depriving the defendants of their will. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich, very briefly. And we're going to define by voting. I beg of you, Your Honor, otherwise it will be difficult for us to start the Conciliation Council again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u193	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to discuss this bill. I hope that the SDPU(O) will also vote, where the President of Ukraine, Leonid Krawczuk, has promised me. Don't just leave the hall. Because tomorrow it will touch you personally. It's working. The point is, they're just sitting here with these petty tenants because they didn't want to pay the bribes, they didn't want to pay the fees. What's the problem?Oh, my God! There is no criminal prosecution for tax evasion in Switzerland. Let them be responsible for all their possessions. Let his Power, and it is stipulated by my law, strike, take away his apartment, his car. Let him no longer engage in business, only in our law. What's going on today? They planted a man, he hid all his belongings, and he saw nothing in front of the people of Ukraine. I propose to increase liability, on the one hand, for business crimes. Look closely at my law. On the other hand, we have an eighth place per capita in the prison population. Why do you need these people in prison? Let them open their docks, small factories, all small businesses. It's not a problem, because the big ones don't. They are already being paid by the executives, only if they are not expelled. Please. I'm asking you very much, and the communists, too. There are many small entrepreneurs who support you. Now they're all sitting and waiting. Give them a chance. That's a serious subject. And here I don't even know what I can do. I beg you, vote. There are people who will vote. Vote for this law, it's a good law and vote for it in first reading, and then we'll take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u194	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? We're going to have to consider one more question. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee based on the draft Law on the Temporary Procedure for the Use of Criminal Penalty in the form of a Criminal Code for the Deprivation of the Convicted of the Crimes of Article 212 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[Registration number 3108]] Please vote. [[14:13:14]] For-189 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on re-reading the draft Law 3108. Please don't break up. To read again. [[14:13:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. For Cibenko's reasons, please. May I have your attention, please? Zibank's microphone. Then it'll be the factions. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! We've ratified one of the laws before. I would ask all my colleagues to return to the vote on the ratification of the agreement with Russia and to publish the results of the vote in our newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-22-m0.u196	Who wants to go back to the draft law on Registration 0209 on cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Russian Federation? Please vote. Change the vote. Prepare to vote. When you're ready, will you say? Ready to vote? Who wants to go back to the draft law 0209 - registration number? Please vote. Please vote. [[14:15:07]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Who's in charge of going back to the draft Law 0209? Please vote. [[14:15:34]] For 224 The factions, please. The factions. Let's get out of here. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 66, "Regions of Ukraine" - 44, Communist faction - 38, SDPU - 0, "Trug Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The Union" - 0, "The only Ukraine" - 0, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 15, "Centre" - 12, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 0, non-fractional - 9. God loves a trinity! Who's for going back to the draft law, registration number 0209. Please vote. One last time. Third time. [[14:16:25]] For 249 Decision taken. I am voting for the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation, on the liquidation and order of the return of aviation technology at the repairs of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. Registration number 0209. Please vote. [[14:17:03]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, last one. I'm the bill that Leonid Chernewicki reported, so that we can end up in a normal working rhythm. Who. I ask who, in order to re-read the draft Law on the Temporary Procedure for the Execution of Criminal Sentences in the form of a Willlessness, for those convicted of committing a crime, is provided for in article 212 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Registration number 3108. Please vote. [[14:17:53]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'm once again referring to re-reading the draft Law, registration number 3108. Please vote. [[14:18:23]] For 248 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 15 o'clock, the committee meeting. At 3 p.m., there will be a meeting of a special monitoring committee on electoral legislation on the third floor. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Thanks for the job. Good-bye.
