ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:58]] Registered -436 There were 436 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexia Vladlenović. Let's say hello to him, wish him all kinds of good things. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups decided on the schedule of meetings for March 23-26 and how to deal with the individual issues noted for this period. You have a list of issues that we need to make today. Obviously, there is every reason to turn to consideration. With a motive, please. I see your hands are lifting, let's exchange our thoughts. Three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Plutinski, faction of the Agrarian Party, please. Pluto microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u2	Plutinski, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. I would like to say that to support today's message of the day, I would like to ask the people's deputies, there's a question about agriculture. I would ask all my colleagues to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u3	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u4	Fucking Communist faction. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. I don't think we can start a session if we don't evaluate what's happening in Palestine, it's happening in Iraq, it's happening in Kosovo. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give the commission to the responsible committees to prepare a statement from the Supreme Council on these events and to evaluate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u5	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u6	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. I've asked all the deputies in this room several times, and most of them have asked, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for a catastrophic situation in the village. I just got back from the county. Goods paid for by farms do not comply with the government’s decree, and factories refuse to unload fertilizers to households that have paid off. I'm asking you very much, I know you support agrarians, give a task to a profile committee, Tomich, we'll work things out together. We have a situation where we'll be buying bread again abroad this year. How much can this nation and these peasants endure, mistreatment of them? It's just impossible to date peasants. It is said that you are at the top or do something, or disperse, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u7	Vladimir Skomarowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u8	Vladimir Skomarowski, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u9	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I draw your attention as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the fact that a letter has been sent to the faction of "Our Ukraine" by the co-chair of Mr. Gavrish's special temporary commission that there is a time limit for amendments to the Local Elections Act to just about seven days. I remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the Rules clearly set a 14-day deadline for such amendments. I am therefore very much asking on behalf of the faction that you should pay attention to the co-chairs of this commission so that it does not violate the Rules by such letters, because this is the right to the legislative initiative of every Ukrainian national deputy. We insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u11	Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Do you have Oleg Belarus? Microphone, please. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u12	I give the floor to the national MP, Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u13	Gregory Omelchenko. I asked you to turn on Gregory Omelchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u14	Thank you. Grigory Omelchenko, election block of Yulia Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Association of Ukrainian Officers. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs. I don't know how to address you on behalf of the Temporary Investigation Commission, which I am in charge of investigating the circumstances of the killings of journalists George Gongadze and Igor Alexandrov and other crimes committed by statesmen. For the past year and nine months as the interim commission of inquiry has been established and until now the Supreme Council of Ukraine has refused to listen to the report of the next commission and the Attorney General on this matter. I ask you to put this question to a vote and to include in the agenda of the report of the Follow-up Commission and the Attorney-General's Office on the results of the investigation into the murder of George Gongadze. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I'm asking the secretariat about the issues that have been raised there if appropriate written instructions are to be prepared. Dear colleagues, the two factions insist on the right to take a break is the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the block of Yulia Timoshenko. So let's maybe ask the faction immediately, one of these two factions said, why did they want to take a break and make a statement, and keep working so that we don't take a break, we have a lot of bills to consider. Is there no objection? Well, please, who's going to take a message from the faction? Why did you ask for a break? Yuri Orobec, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u16	Dear Head, honourable deputies! I appeal to you for the commission of two factions, and I appeal to you at the same time as the head of the interim parliamentary commission of inquiry after the election of Mayor Mukachevo. In Mukachevo, extraordinary events: Presidential decree removed the legally elected measure and the scheduled election on April 18th. But opposition candidates, candidates from the "Our Ukraine" bloc, don't register. Opposition candidates appealed to the court, and the court ordered the territorial commissions to renew the registration, registration, and registration of Baloga and Landoola. However, the territorial commission dissolved itself, all took the hospital, and served all the terms. And so the opposition candidates aren't registered in principle. On the other hand, all court decisions are blocked, and the decision to have an old territorial commission is not implemented. There is no court decision to withdraw from the registration of candidate Nuser, who is guilty that the previous election is invalid. So I'm asking you and the Head of the Supreme Council to move immediately to the scene of the event by a group of heads of the legal committees, namely: Stretovich, Matvienko, Moses, I'm the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission and to leave Zinchenko, deputy head of the Supreme Council. Moreover, it was already a direct commission by the Head of the Supreme Council last week, but for some reason objective that Zinchenko was in a foreign assignment, it was not carried out. I'd like you to arrange an exit immediately. The situation is critical. It threatens to grow into permanent opposition not only in the Zakartat region, but to move across Ukraine, because Zakartat is the place where black technologies are being deployed to the presidential elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already made a deal with you. And this group was formed. Today, at 13 o’clock, Alexander Zinchenko returns from his assignment. He is in Belgium with a group of national deputies, and after that I had a conversation with him. All will gather committee leaders, and they will make the appropriate decision to implement the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we have every reason to move on to Tuesday’s schedule. The section entitled “Decision for Decisions on the Issues under Discussion” is under consideration. It's a draft of the Agricultural Census Act. Please replace the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Paul Sulkowski. Inform the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies. This bill was considered last week. A discussion was held, and I reported to the committee last week. And today I want to report that the committee has supported this bill and is today asking all the national MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law on the agricultural census. Registration number 4591. Please vote. [[10:15:06]] For 216 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, then I ask you to return him to his first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u21	I put to the vote a motion for a committee to return to read the draft Agricultural Census Act again. [[Registration number 4591]] Please vote. [[10:15:38]] For 232 Decision taken. The draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign is being announced for consideration. Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, has the floor to announce the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! On March 19 -- a few days ago -- we discussed two bills: introduced by the government and introduced by the people's deputies. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations recommends that a bill of national MPs be drafted to prepare for the second reading, taking into account the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u23	Yes, thank you, Hennady Josephovich. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal has been proved to you, the position of the committee, but according to the Rules, I'm the first to put a government project to the vote. May I have your attention, please? I am betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign. [[Registration number 4526 government]] Please vote. [[10:17:07]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of property rights is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3085]] Tsuko Vasil Petrovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u24	Chush, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues! This law was considered on Friday. The authors of the law Chernovetský, Dustenko. The law provides for the withdrawal of the bet and only to leave the bet in the calculation of the budget, and in the calculation only by decision of the court, if this property has been pledged prior to that. In principle, our committee supported the bill, but provided that the second reading takes into account the views of the Ministry of Finance and the opinion of the tax service, because it is being destroyed, I say, the Committee's opinion, the mechanism for raising money in the budget. Thank you. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u25	For reasons, Chernewsky, please. Please sit down, Vasil Petrovich. Turn on the Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Regrettably, listen. We voted more than 300 votes in favour of an unacceptable write-off. It's the same law. I suggest that today, for one kopeck, the property of any pensioner, businessman is entered into the register and his property is arrested. Don't vote against this law, it's against common sense. You supported the same law, it's my bill on unacceptable write-off, and then we overcame the President's veto. Please, it's everyone's business. Vote in favour. And the three committees put it together. No comments were made on the financial and banking activities or on the budget committee or on others. It's like taking and putting on shackles if you vote against this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of collateral issues. Registration number 3085. Please vote. [[10:20:10]] For 172 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal? Vasil Petrovich, what's the committee's proposal? You don't? So the law is rejected. One moment, please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this issue must be settled in any case, because the imposition of a tax bond is in no way related to the size of the tax liabilities that arise in the parent. Thus, the actual decision to impose a tax will block activities, including state - owned enterprises, without the possibility of borrowing from banks. And today we are talking about the work of tens or hundreds of thousands of people. I have a request -- please put it to the vote for re-reading, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u29	I am voting for the re-reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the regulation of collateral issues. Registration number 3085. Please vote. [[10:21:30.]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Thus, the law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Civil Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs Authorities and Some Other Persons is being announced for consideration. The reporter is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Stepanovich Bulba. Do you have Stepanovich? You don't? Then, dear fellows, I will announce the committee's proposal. The committee's conclusion is to adopt Bill 3718 on the basis of 3718-1, 3718-2 on the basis, 3718-3 on the basis, 3718-4 off. I'll put it to the vote accordingly. The first is the draft Law 3718 on amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons. This project, registration number 3718, was introduced by the People’s Deputy Rudzkowski. [[10:22:57]] For 234 Decision taken. I put to the vote, my fellow Members, the next draft of the Law, registration number 3718-1, introduced by National Deputy Timoshenko, to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons. Registration number, I think, 3718-1. And the committees are proposing, these are different laws, the committees are proposing. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. [[10:23:40]] For-96 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal of the committee again to draft Law 3718-2, introduced by the National Deputies of Kadenyuk, Bulbo, Simonov, on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs Authorities and Some Other Persons. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:24:27]] For 230 Decision taken. I'm betting on the voting project under number. The point is that the committee is offering to take four as a base, one to be rejected. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. If the committee doesn't report, I'm going after that written address that came from the committee, your honorary colleagues. I'm voting on draft law, registration number 3718-3, introduced by National Deputy Croats. This is the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Retirement of Civil Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Certain Other Persons. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:25:28]] For-119 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on draft law, registration number 3718-4, which the committee is proposing to reject. This is a project that was implemented by the National Deputy Ostas to amend and supplement the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Civil Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Staff of the Internal Affairs Authorities. I'll bet you a vote on the basis, please. [[10:26:11]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Please, the people's deputy gmir of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think we need to work out a little bit of law enforcement. If these bills differ in content, they should be voted on separately and considered separately. If they complement each other, one must be accepted as a basis by procedure, and the other must be complementary. I mean, that kind of introduction, I think we're confusing, and it still shouldn't be. There are difficulties in voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u31	I agree with you, Your Honor, but I had to put to the vote a committee proposal that suggested three bills to be accepted as a basis and one to be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a brief discussion of the bills. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the registration of political parties]] Rapporteurs: National Deputy Alexander Turchinov, Minister of Justice Alexander Lavrinovich, National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexei Remenyuk Alexander Alexanderus Moroz will be the narrator. Please, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I won't take up much of your time because the bill is very short. But I ask you to listen carefully because it is fundamentally different from those bills that are proposed and will report on. I remind you that there is a requirement in the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine where the Ministry of Justice has the right to control compliance by parties with the applicable laws of Ukraine and the valid Ukrainian Constitution. It's a normal norm, it's used in many countries of the world, in civilized countries of the world. But the law, which was voted by the Supreme Council, stole nonsense, which is otherwise referred to as "breeding" impossible: the Ministry of Justice, according to this law, is also tasked with controlling party compliance or party compliance with their own statutes. Dear colleagues, it is all the same that the State institution that registers marriages be entrusted with the task of monitoring the performance of marriage duties. The point is that statutes are internal party documents, and only a party, only its elected bodies, only party members have the right to control the party's compliance with its own statute. All other government authorities can control only the relevance of the party's activities to the current legislation, and no more. Well, I'm sorry, I imagine Mr. Lavrinovich is going to control how our "Fatherland" party is opposition. That's why we're proposing this rule that compromises, in fact, this law that compromises Ukraine as a civilized country, removes, and other proposals, in fact, we don't think. So, dear colleagues, please support this. Today most of this room is partying, and I feel that after the adoption of the law on the election of national MPs on a proportional basis, in fact, all national MPs will soon become party. And you'll all be interested in making our legislation civilized, it's effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u33	Yes. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. This bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine and is not an alternative to what has been reported. It refers to another problem that exists in us -- the problems of registering political party centres and clarifying positions that result from judicial review of the procedure for cancelling political party registrations. For the first one. We have in this law article 11 that political parties, after their establishment within six months of the date of registration, ensure the establishment and registration of the order established by law, their district, city, district organizations of most areas of Ukraine, the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That is, the logic of the law was built in such a way that in most of Ukraine's territorial units, representations or political parties of Ukraine should be formed. But the other part of the article, which deals with the obligation to form these centers after six months, ends only in terms of the obligation to form them in the fields. So there's a kind of gap in logic. Therefore, the President proposes that, in order to provide for the law that compulsory formation also in areas and cities, political parties should form their own centers. The second part is being created, and it is proposed to determine the procedure for judicial review of the issue of the cancellation of the registration certificate. This article now foresees that if the political party has not nominated its candidates for the election of the President or the election of Ukraine's national deputies for 10 years. This valid norm does it solve the provision of real representation by parties and does not have a clear understanding and interpretation. Therefore, it is proposed that clarification be applied in other countries as well to determine a certain period of time after which if a political party does not have representation in parliament, this could be the reason for the Supreme Court’s consideration of the cancellation of its registration certificate. This is the essence of the changes proposed by the President of Ukraine for consideration and approval. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u35	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. True, this raises the question of what to do with the political parties that plan their own, including taking part in local elections, not in the election to the Supreme Council, and obviously the cross should be placed on them. Remenuk Alexi Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, article 11 of the Political Parties Act regulates the rules under which, for a period of six months from the date of registration of the political party, it is necessary to establish its regional structures in administrative and territorial units. There is no clear norm for registration of primary organizations and parties in the current law and its procedure. In our view, the proposed draft law specifically defines the administrative and territorial units and rules for the establishment of regional political parties within them, ensuring that the text of the law is not varied by the supervisory authorities and that decisions are not taken in favour of political parties. In addition, primary party organizations are generally not legal entities and have no balance sheet, no separate balance sheet, no bank accounts. And, of course, they are not taxpayers. Despite these obvious facts, the State tax authorities in the field have been instructed to take into account tax payers No. 80 of 19 February 1998, which requires that the primary organizations of the parties which have not been assigned the status of the legal person be charged. Primary managers tend to work on social grounds often because of lack of their own budget. At the same time, even the tax and statistical procedure itself entails considerable financial costs. Moreover, in order to ensure periodic reporting to tax authorities, all primary party organizations must have relevant employees, i.e. accountants, who need additional funding. Thus, the conditions under which the creation and normal functioning of the primary organizations of a party with no legal status becomes impossible by the State authorities, resulting in a violation of the constitutional right of citizens to freedom of association and membership of political parties. Parties for the protection of their rights and freedoms. In our view, sufficient formal notification by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to the legalization of primary organizations of parties not granted legal status. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u37	Alexander Frost gives the floor to the committee. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u38	Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Committee on Legal Policy has carefully considered three projects that are currently under discussion, and this is how it was determined. With regard to the Turkinova MPs' project, Turkinova and Remenyuk made a positive decision to suggest that the project should be considered in a second reading at a meeting of the Supreme Council. With regard to the project being submitted by the President, he was given serious criticism at the committee meeting, because he envisioned an unacceptably unacceptable condition for the parties to function, and therefore there is a proposal not to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u39	And the third, Alexander Alexandrovich, Remenyuk? Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! We need to talk. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are listed in the discussion. Masenko, Puzakov. Two-for-two-again. Now, I would like to ask my honourable colleagues what kind of bills you support that you don't support. Is it Masenko? There is no then, please, Puzakov. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u40	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Dear colleagues! Proposals for amendments to the existing Law on Political Parties in Ukraine are perfectly correct. First. Indeed, each political party has its own unique status, which is governed by its practical activities, and that is its prerogative. The Ministry of Justice should therefore monitor compliance by a party with its approved statute, since the party itself takes effective measures when necessary for its members and organizations that do not comply with the requirements and regulations of the statute, and in the event of a gross violation, it decides on the matter of being in its ranks. It's different. It is also necessary to support additions to the law that parties are obliged to submit the necessary documents and positions only on the basis of the issues listed in paragraphs one and two of the first article 18 concerning the monitoring of compliance with the requirements of the Constitution with Ukraine's laws. This does not allow the Ministry of Justice to interfere illegally with the party’s activities, to invite material they would like. And third. A very important clarification regarding the article on the prohibition of political parties. The current law enshrines a rule that can't work in court, both the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney-General's Office, let it be done only by the Ministry of Justice, and the Attorney-General has something to do with the violators of the Constitution and the existing legislation, as the owners of public structures and the money bags of the oligarchy often do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u42	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national deputies, our citizens of Ukraine, who do not understand what is being said today, and who listens to the broadcast. The point is that Turkinov, Turkinov's national deputy and his colleagues, are Belarus, the national deputies of Belarus and Sass have made the right proposals to make the law really law. Does the Ministry of Justice monitor the implementation of its party statutes today? Of course, it doesn't, because the Ministry of Justice also thinks it's absurd. That's understandable. And even during the re-registration that was now, it was clear that no one was doing it because it was impossible to do it. So I don't think anyone in this room would object to taking into account the position proposed by the Turkish, Sass and Belarus national deputies. This is not the case with regard to the proposal made by the national deputy Remenyuk and the President of Ukraine. Law 4351, introduced by the President of Ukraine, does not propose, but commands, within a six-month period, the establishment of centres in most parts of the city, even a small city, i.e. the structural construction of political parties, which are absolutely internal political issues, is required to resolve in a legislative way. [[Think about it, please!]] Why is this being done? I understand clearly why. This is to destroy and make political parties under control. I'm going to tell you that when I read the entire text of the bill and started to think about what this control was supposed to do, I would like to propose, after Leonid Danilovich resigned, to lead a party in which dragon laws would operate. But thank God that even the Science and Experimental Authority has written that the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Political Party Act by the President are questionable from the point of view of their legal basis. The president’s proposal was mildly called questionable. I'd just like to tell the President that these are ridiculous suggestions, and I'm asking you to reject them. I'm against that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, prepare Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts of Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block, "Our Ukraine". Dear parliamentarians and honourable voters, if they listen to us now. This law and the versions of the laws that we are considering today are very important when we mention that, literally, within a very short period of time, Ukrainian society will go to proportional elections. Because of this, this law in this situation is to some extent even crucial. Thank God, Ukraine survived that period when after the first one, monoparty was allowed to form parties, they began to be born in a family environment, in a family environment, and so forth. That is why we have multiplied so many political parties today. From all accounts, we have to work on the dissipation mechanism of these parties in order to get through, well, first of all, I think, first of all, about five to six powerful political parties. You and I have forgotten once and for all, and I think we've gone on the wrong, wrong path, forgetting that, let's say, in America, the two most powerful parties actually don't have any big party equipment, and they don't have big party branches, but only about a year and a half before the election, it's all coming into motion, it's all getting alive, it's starting to work, a huge mass of supporters, or a republican, or a democratic party, and in that way they're going to the election. Because of this many clarifications that are very important in these different versions of the laws to me. I'd like to support this option, which is very clearly said, maybe someone doesn't like it, but I think it's a very good separator that if a two-year-old party doesn't break into parliament, there's a reason for it to shut down or cancel its activities. I understand how Turkey is now listening to this and how it is probably, as well as I can see what the abuse around it will be. But this mechanism may need to be adopted. That's why I think we need to take the basics as Turkinova and Sasa. I would add to this bill: two cadences, if the party loses the election, it comes down from the political arena. And we'd have a more or less decent Law on Political Parties. I think we're going to have to work on financing the parties. Because today, let's say there are parties in society that are being shipped around the area and donated from the bar, let's say I have two medical vans in Joukla. And I wanted to ask you, for what money.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u45	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u46	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that no one in this room should prove the importance of efficiency in any matter. [[united]] Effectiveness, among other things, involves clear and understandable rules of the game. An effective policy, and this should also be understandable to everyone, depends on the willingness of society to implement it. And without leaders, without unifying political institutions, political parties, there is nothing to be done. But perhaps it is now time for the honorable to make a political decision that would make the parties party, not pocket formations under a person, but, in fact, as it has been done in a civilized world, expressors and advocates of the interests of citizens. We should not talk here about the observation of the constitutional right of citizens to unite in political parties. If, in fact, an all - Ukrainian party is formed, it must at least take care to meet this status. We find the bill 4351 on the obligation of political parties to establish and register in most areas of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol, as well as in most of their districts and cities district, city, district, and district offices fair and even principled. And not a property figure here is taken into account as some try to submit, but it is in accordance with the interests of Ukrainian citizens and accountability to Ukrainian citizens. The other proposals of Bill 4351 seem to us to be correct. There must be a clear and understandable procedure for cancelling the political party registration certificate. The proposed amendment to article 11 of the current law on political parties specifies the requirement for parties and, in our view, we should agree, because the election of a party of candidates for the election of the President or the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the election of members of the political parties by the national deputies of Ukraine are completely different things. The change will make the parties not virtually exist, but rather work hard to get voter support. The parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party is of the view that it is Bill 4351 that addresses the needs of society and responds to the declared course of political reform. [[united]] And we propose to adopt this bill as a basis. I think there are a number of fears today about the abolition of political parties. This is something that parties that have no structure have to worry about and experience and have not done anything for four years. With regard to the activities and charitable activities of various political parties, it must be carried out in accordance with the law. If this is done by means of charitable funds, there is no violation of legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's move on to the vote. I'm asking for your attention. I'm voting according to the registration order. I first put to the vote a project under No.4251, the author of the National Deputy of the Republic of Turkey, and also Billorus-Sas. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Political Parties Act, registration number 4251. [[10:50:35]] For 180. The decision is not taken. I put to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, draft law, registration number 4351, amending the Ukrainian Political Party Act, the Presidential Bill. [[10:51:09]] For 204 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on draft law, registration number 4351-1, amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Political Parties Act, author of the national deputy Remenjuk. Based on the base. [[10:51:40]] For-97 What are the suggestions of the committee? Unvote. There's a committee proposal to take it off the table. Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I think we're in a hurry to remove issues that concern everyone. I'll remind you that everyone will soon be partying. And it's not normal. Even in totalitarian countries, public organizations, in particular political parties, are not controlled by government authorities. It's nonsense, it's a disgrace to us and to the same Ministry of Justice. So I have a proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich: to adopt Bill 4251 as a basis, taking into account the proposals in other bills, including the Presidential Bill. In that case, I think everyone will support it, and before the second reading, write a single law. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is that if they haven't passed, they're off-limits. I'm listening to the committee's proposal. A draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts is being published in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of the Income of Persons. Reporter is Deputy Finance Minister Kopilov Vadim Anatoliyovich. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking’s Subcommittee, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax is prepared to implement the final provisions of the Act. The main provisions of the bill are to amend 25 existing legislations in Ukraine that do not comply with the Income Tax Act, which took effect on 1 January of this year. In particular, according to article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax, a single form of declaration on the property status and income of natural persons is introduced for all statutory cases of submission. At the same time as improvements in the declaration procedure for natural persons of property and income, the bill proposes to organize benefits for the taxation of the income of natural persons in accordance with the rules of the Income Tax Act. The Ukrainian Pro-Prosecution Act and the status of judges have proposed amendments to the exemption from tax on retirement benefits. The Ukrainian Labour Code and the Ukrainian Labour Act have amended the rules on non-receiving deductions from relief, compensation and other payments that allow tax deductions from these payments in cases provided for in the Income Tax Act. Ukraine's laws on the State Tax Service of Ukraine and on how to pay taxpayers' obligations to budgets and State trust funds provide for changes in the introduction of the concept of "tax agent" from the payment of personal income tax, as well as the determination of the liability of tax agents and natural persons for tax infringements. Ukraine’s Tax System Act proposes editorial changes in the avoidance of double taxation, as well as a change in the name of the tax on the income of natural persons. Changes have been made to the Law on Taxation of Business Income on Taxation of Dividends, Interests and Orders for Tax Agents in Tax Accounts. The Notaryate Act provides for changes to the duties of notaries, taking into account the determination of their tax agents. Under the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Persons, Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments, the proposed supplements apply to persons who have been granted the status of tax agents under the Income Tax Act. Dear National Deputies! There are no amendments to the 8 laws because the Criminal Code has been introduced. The project was submitted by the people's deputies Karmazin and Bandurka, who took into account the changes. The Agriculture Act has not been amended because, according to the law, there is no change.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u51	Do you have everyone? How long do you need? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u52	Thank you. Ukraine’s Law on. The bill in question is no longer valid. Two normative acts are taken by the National Bank on its own. The laws on education, the police, and local self - government did not require changes, since they do not conflict with the law. I would ask the honourable national MPs to support the bill and vote for it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u53	Thank you, Vadim Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, head of the Subcommittee Committee on Finance and Banking, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The bill was drafted for the implementation of article 22 of the Law on the Income of Natural Persons, which was commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers to draft and introduce a bill whose main purpose was to bring the rules of existing legislation into line with those of the Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2004. [[Transitional provisions]] Thirty-three laws of Ukraine were envisaged to be amended. The Cabinet of Ministers submitted a draft law that took into account the twenty-five amendments to the laws. The remaining eight were responded by the Deputy Minister of Finance to the extent that other legislative acts had taken into account the changes. The Committee considered the bill and decided to adopt it on first reading. However, given that this law was to enter into force and we should have adopted it last year, because the Act on the Income Tax has already been in force. It would be logical to accept it today and in general as a law. Because the issues raised by members of the Committee were mainly those eight laws that had not been included in the draft Act by the Cabinet of Ministers. We have received additional replies from the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers, so it is possible to enact legislation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u55	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Dear colleagues. Is there a need to discuss? Obviously, it is because national MPs have signed up. Please state on board the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma. I ask you, my fellow Members, to make your position clear, whether for or against this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! As has been pointed out, this law is extremely serious. It is extremely serious because it changes many laws and seems to be complex in this regard. He might seem complex if he were still serving the people of Ukraine. This law, in my opinion, will not serve the people of Ukraine for these reasons. I am firmly opposed to amending the Law on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Workers and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine, on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, on the Status of War veterans and on the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the Benefits of the Soviet Union's Heroes, the Full Cavalry of the Order of Slava, on the Prosecutor's Office, on the Status of Judges. Why? Because it will reduce the amount of tax guarantees that exist in this category. I don't call it the benefits, I say it's the guarantees, the guarantees that we've passed laws on these people. This is contrary to part three of article 22 of the Constitution. With regard to other suggestions. Among them are very good suggestions, such as that each member of the family of a person claiming to be a civil servant in the first and second categories is obliged to provide guidance on the submission of a declaration or declaration to the State Tax Office. And during the presidential election, including in the year 99, he demanded that help not only be given about the earnings of the President of Ukraine, about his property, but also about what is on his family. This is essential today for both the positions of ministers and for the positions of others, but it is not absurd to do so. The bill proposes a copy of the declaration and a reference to the submission to each member of the State Tax Office of the Declaration, certified by the Head of the State Tax Office and stamped upon the request of these persons within three working days of their written request. Clearly, it will be only a bureaucratic, paper written in the state, standing around the queue, and there will be no liability for it for the taxpayers. So I have a very double impression about these changes. On the one hand, there's a drop of those that are positive, but more, in my opinion, are negative because they can violate the rights of the people that I've already mentioned, particularly the Chernobyls, the veterans of war and the disabled. That's why I'm against this law, against its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u57	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare for Zebravski. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I'm speaking from those Ukrainian national deputies who are behind this bill. And the logic of our speeches with Comrade Carmazin is, of course, there is. I personally believe that the first reading of this bill will be adopted, it needs to be adopted, because it is implemented and it conforms to what we have adopted here, in this sessional room, the Income Tax Act. But just as there is ambiguity in society and the general public about the Law on Income Taxes, that is, we have a mixed view of the changes introduced by Bill No. 4312. What I want to say right now is that the main negative factor in the proposed bill is increasing tax pressure and increasing administrative responsibility in relation to private entrepreneurs. I want to focus on this very aspect over these three minutes without touching the social sphere. For example, it is proposed to amend the Law on State Taxation. Thus, an old - day editorial says that there is a system of penal housing between 1 and 5 untaxed minimums of citizens’ income, which seems more reasonable and logical. And the proposed changes suggest that the administrative responsibility of tax agents be increased without considering the degree of difficulty of administrative misconduct, i.e. whether the agent has any income and expenditure disturbances, or whether he doesn't keep this account at all. One fine is set at the size of five untaxed minimum citizens’ income. When preparing for second reading, this nonconjugal should be eliminated. And one more thing. I'm calling the drafters of the bill, the government's attention to article 16. It is proposed that paragraph 16.6. be completed. The tax agent pays the penalty for each calendar day, including the day of payment, at 120 percent of the annual bank account rate. I'm calling all the Ukrainian national deputies to order us. Here, a bill of colleague Stoyan’s was considered, and it was to the tax rate that the NBA tried to tie in compensation for the early payment of wages. The bill provoked strong condemnation and opposition from the government. And here, when allowed, it looks just illogical, and this innovation will dramatically increase tax-administrative pressure on small businesses by the state. And the last. A bill on the priority of the social development of the village and the agrarian and industrial complex in the national economy. In articles 19 and 23, we're talking about. Tax benefits. As a representative of the Zaporozhye Industrial Region, I want to say that the above-mentioned benefits for agro-industrial workers for a farmer are proposed by the bill to cancel what is wrong. Because industry and other businesses, organizations located in urban areas, are counting the income tax received from income to the budgets of the respective rural councils. And these funds are used to develop the social sphere of the village. That's not us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u59	Paul Zebravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u60	605 constituency, Solidarity, Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in principle contains enough good standards. However, it cannot be supported because it contains a number of norms that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and undermine the social protection of individual categories of citizens. First, the bill proposes to increase the liability of taxpayers for the lack of accounting or improper accounting of income and expenditure by establishing a single fine rate of five non-taxable minimum citizens' incomes instead of the current existing fine of one to five non-taxable minimums. Thus, it is suggested that the gravity of the wrongdoing be balanced. However, a fine will be imposed for the total absence of accounting, and for the accidental filing of faulty data into the accounts. To my deep conviction, before the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code, there is no bill that provides for increased responsibility for infringements in the field of entrepreneurship. In view of the complex tax system, the existence of numerous contradictions and uncertainties in tax legislation, uneven taxation, entrepreneurs will often be able to act at random, not to the end, whether they operate in the legal field or not. The second unacceptable norm contained in this bill is the government's attempt to abolish taxes on the income of individuals for the most vulnerable segments of the population of Ukraine. This is true of veterans and wargoers, labor veterans, and Chernobylers. Nor can we agree with the norm offered to tax the financial assistance of prosecutors, investigators, judges when they retire at the expense of their years or disability. Of course, for those who are corrupt, they can give all their help and wages, and for those who are truly honest in their duties, I think this is the last chance to maintain their financial standing in the event of retirement. Thus, instead of addressing a number of serious tax problems, such as the problem of illegal tax compensation for added value, the problem of the existence of a number of inefficient sector benefits, the problem of smuggling and free economic zones, the government has focused its attention on taking the last penny to the poorest of our citizens. I therefore propose that this bill should be rejected as one that makes the social situation of the most vulnerable categories of Ukrainian citizens worse and contravene article 22, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed by the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u61	Yes. Thank you, too. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u62	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, considering in this room the law on amendments to the Taxation Act and on. Well, number 4312, about the changes the government is proposing today, I'd like to say the main thing. Of course, we, the Communist faction, cannot agree with the changes made to the basic law. the social protection of war veterans and other senior citizens, the status and social protection of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, the status of war veterans and guarantees of social protection, etc. Above all, and very briefly, I would like to say that if we want to collect taxes today and to supplement the State Budget, we need to have a wish today in the State. And nothing prevents us today, no law prevents our government from considering and seeing who lives and by what means: who buys what property, who spends what money on himself and his family. And making changes, for example, to the Notariat Act is not adding anything to this, it's not taking anything away. Once again, there will be opportunities for them to register, not for themselves, not for their family, not for their relatives, but for neighbors, and for loved ones, and once again no one will be able to resolve anything. So when I talk about this law, I would like to say that the state today has all the possibilities, it's not just a desire to catch those who don't pay taxes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act, registration number 4312. [[11:10:58]] For-198 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? The committee's proposal what? Dear colleagues, we are following procedure, according to the Rules, everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u64	Respectable colleague, literally two words. Those statements that were related to the deprivation of benefits had no basis, because in the income tax, we had removed those benefits and now only brought them into line with the income tax. That is why we absolutely need to adopt this law. And the proposal to put it to the vote again because it failed. faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u65	The vote will not be put to the vote again. If there's an offer, I'll do it again first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u66	For the re-first reading then, if so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Re-reading Taxes for Re-reading, Registration No. 4312. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:12:10]] For 225 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on compulsory pension insurance is being announced for consideration, registration number 4584. Reporter is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Hotch Olena Vasilovna. The narrator will be Vasil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, there is a draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, designed to implement the Supreme Council's mandate to bring the individual law into line with our basic new pension law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to amend the Criminal Code in order to increase criminal responsibility for violations that will be applied to those officials who are evading registration or who are guilty of violating the term of registration as a contributor to the Pension Fund's organs, as well as responsibility for the non-timely and incomplete payment of their payments. It is proposed to amend the Code of Administrative Offences at the same time. A list of offences is being extended, including those involving those who are guilty of misinformation in a system of personalized contributions to a general government pension insurance. Significant changes are made to the Budget Code in order to fill the pension fund’s pension funds. It is also proposed to amend the Act on Fixed Agricultural Taxes in order to restore the same conditions of payment for all employees employed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also proposed to amend the Act on the conduct of an experiment in housing on the basis of the holding company Kyivmishkbud, namely: from the said law, the removal of the provision that there is no contribution to the general government pension insurance for the costs of a natural person's pension account. This government has carried out your commission. Dear National Deputies! A former pension law is proposed to be applied in a part that does not conflict with new legislation. Amendments to the law will be made. on the status of judges, on forensics, on lawyers, on public service. It's for the execution of your commission, honourable national deputies, to separate sources of funding from various pension programs that will allow us to fill the funds of the Pension Fund. Dear National Deputies! This bill is supported by the Scientific and Expert Administrations and the Committees for adoption in the first reading. On the second reading, the government is willing to consider your suggestions and consider them when they are being processed. Thank you, and please support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. It's Vasil Ivanovich. According to the draft law, the rapporteur should be the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, but the Prime Minister of Ukraine officially requested a letter from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in connection with the fact that he was on the appointment of a minister to report to the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Olena Vasilevna Harjača. So this is where the whole procedure is handled. I just didn't tell you at the right time what I'm sorry for. Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a few points. First. The Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans supported the proposal and we also propose to support the adoption of the law on first reading as a basis. We believe that it is interesting, it is important, and most importantly, it is fundamentally different from the very many laws that are being proposed to us in this room today as a legislative body. First and foremost. The bill aims not to expand the categories, not extend the benefits, but to streamline, including legislative, matters relating to payments to the Pension Fund. In this case, the issue does not concern workers, this is the case with the leaders of those who are currently using some legal imperfection to escape payments to the Pension Fund. We, the Committee, believe that, in this case, the Supreme Council, as the supreme legislative body, should adopt an amendment to the legislation according to which payments to the Pension Fund should be paid without any amendment. In this case, it's normal. It is normal because we increase the responsibility of the first managers for the timeliness and full payment to the Pension Fund, and therefore the resource that goes towards increasing the pension. Next moment. The bill raises the responsibility of the State budget to the pension scheme for the non-reimbursement of non-retirement benefits to the Pension Fund under programmes that are not included in the employment pension. We believe that this is also true because the State budget must fulfil all its obligations to the pension fund and hence the availability of a reserve and financial resource for the implementation of the relevant pension programmes, including the increase in the pension. On the basis of the foregoing, I would like to reiterate that the Committee has adopted the Government's proposal, and we propose to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u71	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. On the table, please, the name of the national MPs who signed up for the presentations, the discussion. Two-for-two-against. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin begins the discussion. Prepare Yuri Solomatin. Please fix your position for or against this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First, allow me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to contact you. This bill provides for changes to the Criminal Code, to the Criminal Procedure Code, to the Code of Administrative Offences, to the Law of Ukraine on Procuratorship, to the mass of other laws, including the pension insurance of military personnel, the primary and regular composition of internal affairs bodies, some other persons, that is, those laws that are subject to knowledge of what? A committee on law enforcement. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think that putting these issues under consideration only by the Pension Insurance Committee is totally unacceptable in the future. It's absolutely not a serious analysis of scientific and scientific management. Other committees have not reached any conclusions, and this has been put into short - term consideration. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we can have very, very serious consequences. Why? I understand what needs to be done so that the Ukrainian Pension Fund does not interfere with the checks, but is it necessary to do so and to introduce 188 with the 20 badge into the Code of Administrative Responsibility? I would like to highlight, with the 20's badge. There's so much work done, article 188! There have been so many changes! And how much this codex needed to be rewritten! And we're still putting together changes that are totally unendurable with legal criticism. We're talking about the fact that today we need to go to the 212th Criminal Code and violate criminal cases literally. We're talking about the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code that we're planning right now, despite the fact that we've already voted in this room in the second reading, and we're going to vote, and we're going to adopt the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. So I think that this law, I'm not going to say, here is health law and I have half a hundred observations that this law is being properly considered today at the preparatory stage. And it was a mistake that he was listed as not the committee. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wish we didn't have that in the future. And one committee, although I respect him very much, in the matter of pensioners, veterans and invalids, did not solve the issue of essentially legal committees, which we have as many as three in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm against adopting such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u73	Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u74	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, with all the external appeal of this bill, aimed at improving the congregation's conditions, coming to the Pension Fund, it has some flaws and calculations that can ruin this good opinion, these good intentions. This is especially true of changes in certain codes and laws. They stressed the names of codes and bills. But these proposals and changes were not properly considered in other committees. And these are the committees, and they didn't come to the right conclusions. So, in my opinion, we are now in a situation that was before the adoption of the Law on State Pension Insurance, when, in the name of reporting on the adoption of this law, we did not properly take into account both during the discussion and during the vote all the observations that were in the MP's corps, and now we are again and again introducing all the very basic bills into the basic bill of new and new changes and additions. So I want to express the opinion of our faction, the faction of Communists on this point, that this bill should be more thoroughly worked out on other committees, including public opinion. Then, taking into account the rereading of the first reading, return to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u75	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare Olga Hinzburg. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the bill certainly needs to be adopted in the first reading, because it brings a large number of legislative acts into line with the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance", the law, as it were, is fundamental. You know, once this basic bill became effective, the individual positions of many Ukrainian legislative acts relating to and related to pension insurance, enforcement, criminal and administrative responsibility proved to be inconvenient with current legislation. So I share the point of view of my colleagues who claimed that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. Keep working on it. The bill, if one can put it that way, is of a technical nature, which eliminates discrepancies and inadequacies in a series of valid laws. And with the opportunity, the presence of the Deputy Minister here, I would like to address the Cabinet. While acknowledging the great work done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to amend existing laws, I would like to say that this bill does not exhaust the need to make other changes. I draw your attention to such circumstances. See, the basic law, it establishes that a disability pension from an accident in production is assigned in accordance with the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance from an accident in production. [[Article 30, paragraph 3]] We are taking the Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance from an Accident in Production, article 34, paragraph 16, states: "The payment of invalidity pensions as a result of an accident or occupational illness is carried out in accordance with the legislation on pension insurance." I'm paying attention to you, Olena Vasilovna, that there's no problem at this time. It's all going, as it were, on a scenario that's been worked out. But in a very short period of time, we can get a number of problems that we will have to solve, as it were, in manual mode, i.e. the possibility for Kabmen to make changes and amendments to the basic law on compulsory government pension insurance is not exhausted by this bill. And the last. Dear people's deputies, today is treated differently, this bill that we have adopted with you is different. I'm not going to say whether we did it right or not, the bill is working. But I am drawing the attention of all political forces; we must work together to further improve the implementation of this bill on compulsory state pension insurance. It needs to be further improved, taking into account the specific historical realities of our present day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u77	Please turn on Olga Hinzburg's microphone, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! As we discuss today’s law, we approach it from the point of view that it was adopted at its own time by the Law on State -wide Compulsory Pension Insurance, which has raised so many issues in our society. And when we are offered some changes today, I would like to remind government officials of the problems involved. This is a problem when the second list of population categories, where women or men who retire at 50 years of age today do not count the five years of their current internship. Or this problem that arose when the minimum wage was adopted, where many of the population categories that work, for example, in medical institutions or schools, went to half-boards or 0.25 rates were transferred because they couldn't fully pay the salary, which means that a person should work if 0.5 rates, it would have to work for two years to have a year of pension. And if she's 0.25, she's got four years to train, she's got to work. And especially today, people 54-53 years old don't know what to do. Including we can't, it's a problem that needs to be brought out in the hall today. Speaking specifically of today's bill, and when a faction of Communists did not vote in favour of the bill, because the substitution of the coefficient of 2.25 and 2.75 in women and men changed by one percent, there was also a question. And we cannot support it today without further work. Must be the first read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u79	Yes, dear colleagues, the question is being considered perfectly. From Basil Calinchuk and Mikola Rudzkowski. And we'll determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u80	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Not long ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine accepted the offer of agrarians and voted in favour of maintaining a fixed agricultural tax by 2010. This law is supported by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine. It's signed and it's in operation. Today, however, it is proposed that the congregation make up this tax on compulsory state pension insurance to be removed. The agricultural faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party cannot agree with this approach. And we can only vote in favour of this bill if paragraph 23. is deleted. And I'd like a government representative, Olena Vasilovna, to confirm that paragraph 23 of this bill will be deleted, then only we can vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u81	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u82	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear national MPs, honourable members of the government, you know, your proposed pension reform convinced us that we can't move in a civilized direction. People think of the pension system and the accounting system that we had before as more just. And I'm talking to you about what we need to develop and go back to a system that citizens think is more just. The second question. We need to make adjustments to pension insurance so that when a person worked in the field for 50 years -- he gets 113 dollars of pension, and the person who worked for 10 years in a tax inspection or a national deputy -- gets 2,000 dollars of pension. This is socially unfair and we need to change legislation in this direction. And so I ask the government to focus on such issues, not technical ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on general compulsory pension insurance, registration number 4584. Please vote. [[11:31:49]] For 209 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal. Vasil Ivanovich. Committee proposal: for re-read. I am voting on this proposal: referring to the re-reading of the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on compulsory pension insurance. Registration number 4584. [[11:32:26]] For 247 Decision taken. The draft Act on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice is being announced for consideration. [[on the members of the Council]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a bill to amend the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. The legal status of the members of the High Council of Justice is determined by the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice and other legal and regulatory acts that do not, to this day, fully cover the problem of determining the circle of persons who may be appointed as a member of the High Council of Justice. According to article 131 of the Constitution in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice is acting, to which it is recognized: to apply for the appointment of judges because of the dismissal of them from office, to decide on the infringement of judges, prosecutors of requirements for non-compliance, to exercise disciplinary conduct with regard to judges of the Supreme Court and judges of the higher specialized courts, and to hear complaints about the decision to bring disciplinary responsibility of judges of appeals and local courts, as well as prosecutors. The Supreme Council of Justice consists of 20 members: the Supreme Council, the President, a meeting of judges, a meeting of lawyers, and a meeting of representatives of legal institutions and scientific institutions are assigned to the High Council of Justice for three members, and the All - Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors for two members of the High Council of Justice. The Supreme Council is composed of the Chief Justice, the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. The Constitution of Ukraine and the Act on the Status of Peoples' Deputies do not impose restrictions on the age of election by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. There's a limit to, you know, 65 years for a judge. Part 1 of article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service has been established for 60 years and can be extended to no more than 5 years, that is, 65 years. There are no restrictions at the age of his office as Attorney General of Ukraine. This bill proposes to make all such changes. In part 1 of article 6, the words “not aged 60” should be replaced by the words “not aged 65” in the following wording: "A member of the High Council of Justice may be a recommended citizen of Ukraine under 35 years of age and not over 65 years of age, who has lived in Ukraine for at least 10 years, has a national language, has a higher legal education and a legal career of at least 10 years." There is now a paradoxical situation where the head of the Supreme Court under the Constitution belongs to the High Council of Justice and he is in his 60 ’ s. In addition, it places absolutely no equal standing between deputies and other citizens. That's why we proposed one little change we suggested one little change -- write "up to 65" and so do, completely bring it into line with all the other laws that I've listed for you. [[This is a number of national deputies: Razwadowski and Graz, Moisik, Evdokimov, Karmazin]] Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u85	And thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Government position. Imélianova Inna Ivanovna, deputy minister of justice. Please refer to this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We support this bill, it really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u87	Louder, please. I can't hear you. Talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We support the bill, because, as already mentioned by Yuri Anatoliyevich in his report, he deals with the question of the position of members of the High Council of Justice and the head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General and the national deputies of Ukraine, who are able to serve for 60 years after they have reached the presidency of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this project? You don't? Nobody insists? You don't? Then I'll bet. Please withdraw from the vote. Vladimir Yavorowski, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine", Zovva, Yavorov, Lvivščina. Dear colleagues! I was enrolled in the presentation of this law. I support the position that Yuri Karmazin has shown you. Indeed, it is necessary to settle and bring to some one denominator this age. But we all know exactly what it's for and who it's for, and I support that position. But I would just like to remind you once again, given such an opportunity, of the very principles and approaches of the Supreme Council of Justice. Society, as national deputies, we simply have no right to the slightest peace of mind about what is happening today in the courts. Some courts are, as it were, under the influence of green banknotes, while others are totally under the influence of authority. We can now call the courts that are absolutely lying down, as it were, and await instructions either from the President’s Administration or from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u91	Turn on the microphone, since he had the right to speak, sign up, and let him finish his opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u92	Because I just want to remind the members of the High Council of Justice once again and therefore the head who will be elected and will lead this institution, obviously it just depends on you, don't forget that we're here in the Supreme Council very hard then, let's say, stop or remove a candidate from the list. I'm just asking you so much. Your trust in the courts depends on you. And for this bill, I think we're all going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! I just want to inform you that the head of the High Council of Justice has already been chosen. That's why I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law of the Supreme Council of Justice on the regulation of matters related to the definition of the legal status of members of the Supreme Council of Justice. Registration number 4173-1. Please vote. [[11:39:32]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in the presentation of the committee, one minute, it is written, in the absence of comments by the national MPs, it is suggested that the second reading and generally the law should be accepted. Does anyone have a warning? You don't? Any warning? People's MP Manchulenko. So we can't accept it. I ask the committee to speed up and make a draft of this law for final adoption by the Supreme Council. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Economic Zones and Special Investment Regimes in the Donetsk Region is being announced for consideration, registration number 4338. [[new editor]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment Management, Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please, Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting, considered the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on first reading. The bill deals with the transfer of enterprises in the special economic zone of Donetsk and the special economic zone of Azov to priority development. We held a number of visiting committees last year, including a visiting meeting in the Donetsk SEZ, and saw a number of shortcomings. They are primarily related to the complexities associated with the customs treatment of goods and raw materials, materials and so on. For example, Donetsk does not have such a developed infrastructure, i.e. the infrastructure does not correspond to the number of enterprises. The initiative to move priority development into the Territories was also supported by the Committee. The bill is also supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. And the management considers the reasons for the adoption of the bill sufficiently convincing. Tax preferences remain unchanged. The Customs Service is requested to eliminate customs posts that have been established for the interests of SEZ “Az” and “Donetsk”. It should be noted that the adoption of this bill will improve the work of enterprises that implement investment projects in the priority development territories and reduce tax costs, particularly customs infrastructure costs. The Committee requests support for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u95	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, two for, two against, we need to get the results. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of Our Ukraine, to prepare Andriy Shkull. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the constituency of Ukraine, Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law proposes the Ukrainian Special Economic Zones Act and the special regime for the investment activities of the Donetsk Region. In this context, it is proposed that the special economic zones "Azow" and "Donetsk" should be stopped from being authorized by the economic development authorities of the special economic zones "Azov" and "Donetsk" to provide enterprises that are currently implementing appropriate investment projects in the special economic zone "Azov" and "Donetsk" with the status of special investment activities in the priority development area, further by granting additional benefits that correspond to such status. At the same time, the general term of tax benefits is counted from the time they are granted such status. It is proposed that customs posts be eliminated, businesses located in the special economic zones of Azov and Donetsk, property, including infrastructure that has been created and received from the listed enterprises. Dear National Deputies, article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for the Creation and Functioning of Special Free Economic Zones, establishes the order for the elimination of these zones. This provides that it may be eliminated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the end of the term for which it was created, only by the submission of the President of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, the question of whether special economic zones should be eliminated for the term will be referred to the Commission of Independent Experts, which is created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Did we create such a commission? No, we didn't. Whether it is an appropriate subject of submission that corresponds to article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for the Establishment and Functioning of Special Free Economic Zones, subjects, I remind you, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this order, established by law, is broken because the subject here is the Ukrainian National Deputy, no matter how much I respect him, whatever he may be in charge in the Donetsk district of the appropriate unit, I should expect a friendly party. So first of all, I'd like to say that since we're in line with the current law, the process in the Donetsk area of the enterprise that works, in order to get the income tax benefit, we need to approve the corresponding investment program, and so on and so forth. So this is where we have to make some serious calculations, and we need to get the government and the president. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u97	Against it, I get it. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin against this law. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Get ready for Leonid Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u98	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. And of course we won't support this bill for many reasons either, I'll just give you a few. In general, free economic zones are, of course, very good and very bad, but the point is that there is already a stage in creating free economic zones. Now everyone has long realized that the free economic zone is a hole in the budget, it's a hole in customs operations, and what can't be done across borders is smuggled into free economic zones. In general, the institutions of free economic zones have long been obsolete. I have long adhered to the principle that all Ukraine should be a free economic zone. Why, then, is it that what is good for one area not good for Ukraine? Where do we have hyperdeveloped regions? Where we have those regions that are too highly developed and where we have to have areas that are poorly developed and that need to be further developed. When Chinese examples are cited here and they say that China has developed, the Chinese specification here is literally radically different from Ukraine, because there is a special feature: national, territorial and geographical. In Ukraine, if there are the poorest areas, they are mountainous areas. And no one has ever asked the question of creating a free economic zone in the mountains. In the resorts of Ukraine, in the mountain resorts of Ukraine. And we're talking about SEZs, free economic zones where we have the hyperdevelopment of the Ukrainian industry, where everyone calls the east of Ukraine the largest funding centers of the entire rest of Ukraine. You get there, you hear the information that we're supposed to be here to support the damages and subsidies. That's the question. If everything is developing quite clearly and consistently, who needs free economic zones? I agree that, of course, this is not an initiative of the MP, a change in the structure and functioning of the zones. There is a separate ruling on what the President is doing, but even without a ruling, it has to be a strategic decision of the whole state. There may be one or two free economic zones that are justified by times and circumstances, primarily geographically-sequential areas with economic downturns and job shortages. The free economic zone has to create jobs. In Ukraine, free economic zones create places for criminals, for bandits, for oligarchs. So I urge everyone not to support the development of the oligarchy in Ukraine through the free economic zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u99	Yes, thank you. Is Leonid Chernewsky there? None. Anatoly Frost. Are you in favour or against, Comrade People's Deputy Anatoly Frost?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u100	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, not long ago we were saying that the creation of special zones and the introduction of special investment activities in particular areas called free economic zones. As many investments as possible were called upon to support regional development. Remember, the goal of the special investment regime is to invest in priority economic activities to address the socio-economic problems of depressed areas whose economies have suffered significant structural losses. And then we've talked about it, and today we're finding that the overall investment volume is increasing, and there's a slowdown in their growth rate, and there's a backlog in the region and the state as a whole. And today we are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Economic Zones and Special Investment Regimes in the Donetsk Region. The project is proposed to eliminate special economic zones, namely, Azov and Donetsk, by adopting a new regulation of Ukraine’s current law on special economic zones and special regime for investment activities in the Donetsk region, by providing entities with entrepreneurial activities operating in the CEZ, with the status of business entities working in a special regime. So I think that today, first of all, we need to strengthen the control of the relevant authorities and the enforcement of legislation that regulates the functioning of special areas. Second, the Cabinet of Ministers needs to address the development of a single framework law that will determine the general principles for the creation and functioning of all areas of priority development that are subject to a special regime of investment activity, as well as the legislative status of those TPRs that actually function as they do now, rather than enacting a separate law under each economic zone. And in addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering bills that allow for the orderization of the activities of the TPR, to increase the level and efficiency of regulation and to monitor their activities. That's why I won't support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u101	Yuri Solomatin, please. Will you be speaking, Yuri Petrovich? Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u102	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the essence of the bill is laid out. There's a certain position in the mind. And I just want to add one more thing to that. We seem to really be approaching that limit when it already has every region of Ukraine or group of regions to offer themselves as a separate special economic zone and demand preference for ourselves. Is it not time for us to put an end to the various preferences and zones at all, but to try to resolve all of this through the State Budget and through some support that must be proved and foreseen in the State Budget of Ukraine? If we went that way, we would have to do this: first, to generalize the results of the existence and activities of the special economic zones that have finally been achieved by the State of Ukraine and the people in general who expect something to come to the Pension Fund and the budget, and what needs to be then directed towards social protection; and secondly, it's linked to getting entrepreneurs to develop their business, but at the same time, and what they've returned. There's something coming through the zones today, but it's not coming back. So our faction has this principled position. We cannot support such bills until the summation of all our gains, calculations and what we are losing through these zones is summed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u103	Yes, from the Cabinet of Ministers, Deputy Minister of Economy and European Integration, Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u104	This bill is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, because it's about eliminating the zones of Azov and Donetsk and not introducing any additional tax-related benefits. The law is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u105	The point is, dear colleagues. I'm explaining what the bill is. Okay. The point is, your honor, that this bill is not being passed by the President or the Prime Minister. This is a draft law introduced by the National MP, but the Cabinet of Ministers is mandated to be present when considering this issue and to express the position of the Cabinet of Ministers as Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration, Romaniuk Sergey Andryovich, who has just done so. Then, my dear colleagues, I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Economic Zones and a special regime for investment activities in the Donetsk Region. [[new editor]] Registration number 4338. Please vote. [[11:56:00]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Volodymyr Anatolyovich, what is the proposal of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u106	Well, we're just giving ourselves a job. Well, let me put to the vote the committee's proposal to re-direct the first reading. draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Special Economic Zones and Special Investment Regime in the Donetsk Region, registration number 4338. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[11:56:39]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Then the bill was rejected. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. A meeting of the Conciliation Council in the Head office will take place at 2 p.m. at 2 p.m. with the participation of the leaders of the deputy factions and groups at 2:15 p.m. Break 30 minutes to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u107	We're continuing our work. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property, registration number 3070, has been announced for consideration. [[on thermal supply enterprises]] Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy, Mojcan Volodymir Petrovich. Is the silence right? Be quiet, I'm sorry. Silent Volodymyr Petrovich. Prepare Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies! Silence, 31 constituency, the city of Curve Rig, the faction of the People's Democratic Party. I'm proposing changes to the law that was passed on March 3rd, 98, by number 147 on the transfer of property and property. Changes will be made to the article of the seventh, which is contained in this law, where public property was transferred free of charge to residential buildings, rebuilt by residential and nonresidential buildings, and so on, and so on, including unfinished buildings. And I'm going to add after these words -- the heat companies, the heat plants that produce thermal energy for residential consumers, budgetary institutions and organizations. This is due to the fact that these heat plants that are today in the Department of Fuel and Energy's department, they're long since generators and they're working in fertilization mode. In the early 1980s, after the 1990s, all these TECs were built, repaired at the expense of local budgets, as well as the rations of enterprises that were located in these regions when housing was introduced at a high rate. You know, in cities 400 to 500 square meters a year, housing was introduced. At that time, boilers were built, which were simply transferred free of charge to the balance sheet of these companies. Today, it has become an urgent problem to eliminate this acute problem of stability in the processing of these cemeteries, to pass them on, to supplement this law with changes, and to transfer them to the city’s municipal property. I've got everything. I would ask him to vote, both in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u109	Unless there's a warning. Thank you. Sit down, Vladimir Petrovich. Correspondent Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, distinguished Chairman Vladimir Mihajlovich. The draft law of our colleague, Movcana, on the transfer from State to municipal property of thermal power plants, which produce thermal energy for the consumption of housing and utilities, budgetary institutions, organizations, seems to be very relevant, both in terms of utilities and in terms of consumers, including our electorate. The problem was long overdue and required a legislative solution. Taking into account what was stated in the report and in the text of the draft law, the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of Property and Investment, having considered the bill at its meeting, decided to support it and recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis for its first reading, then to clarify the wording, finalize it and adopt it as a final edition. Why is that a suggestion? Because there is already a proposal to limit the right of local authorities to alienate such property for at least five years. This proposal may be considered in preparation for second reading. The Committee therefore proposes to support the views of the deputies, members of our committee and to vote in favour of the adoption of the draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Public Communal Property Objects, introduced by the People's MP, on the basis of first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u111	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Have a seat, please. We need two pros, two opposites. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to take a brief look at their position. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u112	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The bill can also be supported. But there is nowhere to be found, according to the nation, a nation has almost washed its hands off utilities by handing a lion’s share into local self - government authorities, filling them with only local budgets. The transfer of certain municipal objects to local budgets will lead to their total destruction. This is why disproportionate tariffs on utility services, which in turn leads to a population default, are due to the inadequacy of their self - worth tariffs. In companies like Kirovograd, for example, there was a huge debt on the salary that was 3 million dollars early this year, and on March 1st it increased. So far, all the district utilities are carrying manufacturing costs, there's a widespread decline in production, and the equipment is out of date. For example, let me take the heating system. There are some problems. The technical and financial situation of TEC in most areas of the area is unsatisfactory. They worked on their computational resources, crossed the line of physical and moral wear. More than 30 percent of employees have been lost in a short period of time at the Management Plant, and when the Director announced that the current salary would be paid on time, and the debts that were significant at the time would be paid only in extreme cases, the outflow of qualified personnel increased considerably. And the Misxlight went to the full warehouse. For as reported by the deputy head of the Borisco Trade Union, the municipal authorities do not set a wage level that is much lower than the subsistence minimum, why does the state not keep an eye on the transfer of municipal objects to local budgets? And the Ministry of Fuel and Energy is also trying to get off their shoulders. In the municipal sector, there's a wrong strategy everywhere for enterprise management, stopping the process of reforming the municipal sector, and therefore transferring these enterprises to local government authorities, taking away funds from them -- it's just going to be a crime of the state in front of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u113	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. Is there no school? Yes. Then it's Yuri Carmazin. Is Yuri Anatolyovich there? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs. When I read similar draft laws, I have two feelings. I have a question: What, mechanical transmission, like cinemas, hospitals, solved problems? Children’s Gardens, No? They're all privatized and destroyed in the end. That a mechanical handover to local councils will solve the issue of such serious facilities as heating companies, heat plants that produce thermal energy for residential consumers, budget institutions, and organizations. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're going to create even more serious problems. What are we going to do? Because today we can run within the state, as we would like, if Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic wanted to join Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, we would now introduce energy-saving technologies. We'd buy the same opt, we'd produce the boiler at our production capacity, we'd predict other pipes, everything else, and it would be purchased within the state, it would be much easier to carry out a single policy. What is proposed today? It's just a mechanical transfer. I'll tell you what, you can pass it on, some city heads can find advice. But how? If they start to privatize or rent, as the water line was passed on to Odessa: at first they planned for one bracelet, then, after my performance, a few million dollars were foreseen for 20 million dollars. That's why I think it's honorable that you don't. Even if I vote against this law, but even if it is adopted in the first reading, it is necessary to add, "Heat supply enterprises, heat plants that produce thermal energy for consumers in the housing and utility sectors of budgetary institutions and organizations without the right to privatize and rent." If we write this down, it'll be a serious warning, and no one will want to take it if there's no privatization and no lease. For another reason, believe me, they don't need them. And we need to clearly develop energy-saving technologies for the government. This is the way. rescue, journey to Europe, not from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u115	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u116	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The bill proposes to allow free transfer from state to municipal property of heating companies that produce thermal energy for residential consumers, budgetary institutions and organizations. The inclusion of the listed enterprises in the overall list of objects that, according to valid legislation, are freely transferred from state to municipal property, such as housing, education, preschool education, health care, social security and others, will allow for the creation of a single complex for which a single technical policy can be implemented to ensure the thermal energy of the city’s consumers and the restructuring of the heating system, to optimize their schemes, and to operationalize and implement a single tariff policy. At the same time, in order to ensure all these objectives, we consider it appropriate to propose that the proposed proposal be supplemented by a standard whereby the free transfer of heat-supply enterprises, heat-supply plants that produce thermal energy for residential consumers, budgetary institutions and organizations, from state to municipal property, should be made subject to the provision of local government commitment: not to condemn private property for a period of time, for example, five or ten years. The adoption of this bill will allow the creation of a legislative base for the transfer from state ownership to public utilities on a free basis of thermal enterprises that produce thermal energy for consumers in the housing and utility sectors, budgetary institutions and organizations. Such a transfer will, in turn, allow the implementation of a single policy to provide thermal energy to consumers and to reorganize the heating system, to optimize operational management. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party proposes to support the bill. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u117	Boris Bespali. To whom does Boris the Bespalite pass? National deputy Bogdan Kostinuk has a word for Boris Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u118	I thank Mr. Boris Bespalloma for his word. And I want to say that, of course, we can agree that today, in all regions of Ukraine, the issue of the stable functioning of the heating system is pressing. The technical and financial state of the thermal power plants in many cases is unsatisfactory, and heat plants were built some 40 or 50 years ago. And they're almost working out their computational resources, and some of them have gone beyond physical and moral wear. It's known that some of the heat plants don't now generate electricity and work in machination mode because they produce only thermal energy for the social sphere and for the population. And actually they are. In fact, they're actually utility companies today. But on the other hand, the governing body of state heat plants is the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the claim that it is unable to remedy the situation today, unable to financially recover the enterprise seems to be somewhat questionable. So the transfer of heat companies that produce thermal energy for consumers to government property would be carried out in stages, gradually, well-balanced and without any coercion. And in article 7, to which changes are made, it should be noted that state ownership is not transferred to municipal property but can be transferred. I mean, we're not obliged to transfer, we're giving the right to transfer the thermal supply company without the right to privatize, as my colleagues have been saying here so far. Because this transfer, even though it will allow us to pursue the only technical policy to provide heat to the city's consumers, we must certainly consider the real state of the local budget as a human factor and whether or not there is any funding to prepare for the winter of this former state thermal power plant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting on the proposal. With motive? Valentina Seminouk. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u120	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, the question is of great interest. If we had a law on municipal property rights, we could do the transfer and then we could know that we could regulate the mechanism for preserving this utility property, that it wouldn't be extended or privatized. Today, the law on the right of municipal property is not adopted and so making a decision to transfer a given object means violating article 5 of the law on privatization, which will allow the object to be extended without legal grounds. So I ask you not to support this document. We've been looking at this at a committee meeting, and I'm asking that we then have no cataclysm, that every territorial community will have its own communal area to sell out. And the question of water supply, sewerage, is vital. And so to privatize those objects, and so far to pass, without the Law on the Rights of Municipal Property, just to run ahead of the train. I'm asking you not to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u121	Andrew School, with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would also like to say a few words about the legacy of this law and you can really look at it differently here, but there really is no other way out than to support it. Because the situation that has now arisen with utilities, with the same water and heat, is simply a robbery and abuse of Ukrainians who pay for what. It's already been calculated that the average Ukrainian pays for the quarter, goes nowhere. [[It's about, like, 40 bucks a month.]] Nobody does anything anymore, does nothing, does nothing. So here, at least, you can start some competition. And I don't think she'll talk about losing here. We can only talk about increasing competition, increasing opportunities. So I urge you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Please, Rudzkowski, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u124	Dear fellow national MPs! I'll give you one example, maybe you'll find it easier to make decisions. There's a TEC on the city council in Montenegro. A decision has been made for the rent of a commercial company. No one has any influence, no one has any influence on tariff policy. I think that the adoption of this law, this is the embezzlement of state property or the privatization mechanism is hidden because it's leased and then approved an investment program where the same TEC buys out private owners of utility owners. They're just adventure projects that we can't support in the hall. That's how we make secret privatization. Then sell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u125	Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property, registration number 3070, on a basis. [[on thermal supply enterprises]] Please vote. [[12:52:25]] For 339 Decision taken. What? We took it as a basis, dear colleagues. A draft Law on the determination of the arrangements for the calculation of the vocations of local government representatives is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur: National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Matvienko, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u126	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Ladies and gentlemen, I have introduced a bill on how to calculate the vocations of local government representatives. I want to ask you all two minutes to listen and support the adoption of this bill. What is the problem? I would like to remind you that in 2000, the session of the previous High Council call confirmed the order for the calculations of the Supreme Council's conclusions. And today we have the fourth call of the Supreme Council. We have not done so, unfortunately, with regard to the appropriate arrangements for calling a session of local authorities. And today we have just this strange situation where some call it the "fourth call," others call it the "fourth democratic call," many call it the "twenty-fourth call," a. let's say the hop district council doesn't call it a call at all, but it just speaks of choosing that number, and each session is numbered according to the name when it's chosen which number this session was called, and it's an inappropriate one. We are very much approached by representatives of local governments, to resolve this problem, and to harmonize this calculation. Therefore, this law has no other purpose, as really, to unify the calculation of the convocations of sessions of local authorities. Because at the district level, that's even more vachanalism and inadequacy. There is a proposal in line with what we consider to be the convening of the Supreme Council, including the convening of local governments. Please support me as one of the authors of this bill, including from Mr. Klukkowski, who is also the author of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need for a committee to report? Boris Jakovič Bespalij of the Committee, Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the bill was considered at a committee meeting on November 19, 2003. And the committee offered to accept it in the first reading as a basis. The motives of the committee are the following. The first one has already been expressed by the author of Anatoly Matvienko's bill, the fact that at the moment there is a serious disagreement in the names of vocations, where 6 district councils have defined themselves as for the fourth convocation, two or four democratic convocations and means. And others, with the exception of the Hmielnicki, define themselves as 24 summonses. So there is. Some expressed doubts and remarks that such differences could be preserved. So it could be in that case, if they're termed, out of turn, or some other election, where the entire board will be re-elected. But that's not a problem. It is important that the ruby to calculate the dates for the convening of all local councils, not just district councils, but district, city, rural and rural ones, be the same. And then, really, Kyivsky and Zitomirsky, for example, can have a different order number if that happens. The committee supported the 1990 census. Why? This motive is until the 1990s elections were held on an unaltered basis. Since the 1990s, elections have begun on alternative principles. And that, in our view, is the criterion. Non-party elections or non-party, non-proportional or major, alternative or non-alternative. So now the local councils are fundamentally different from those that were formed on an unalterable basis, irrespective of any ideological, political or other considerations. Taking into account the foregoing considerations, as well as the proposals made by representatives of local self-government authorities and the support of their associations, and the position of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Directorate of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government has supported the bill as a basis and is addressed to you, honourable national MPs, so that you can also support it. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u129	Thank you. Please tell us, Rabbit Anatoly Pavlovich, First Deputy Minister of Justice, what he thinks about the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Considering that the implementation of such an order would allow for the establishment of a single system for the calculation of the vocations of representatives of the local self-government bodies, as well as that it would be consistent with the same order of vocations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and that this project was consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers supported the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this issue? Then we will discuss if there is a need. Please point out who signed up. Please, very briefly. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, please. Get ready for Andrew School. Two "for", two "against".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u132	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs. Let's look at the essence of this law and what it's called. The name of the law on determining the order of calculus of the representatives of local self-governance and all. Wouldn't it be better for us to make changes to the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, where we write how we start counting down these local self-governments? And by the way, that's what the Science-Expert Authority was talking about, but unfortunately no one was listening to it. What, since we're changing now and we're going to adopt this kind of law, they're going to become more democratic, these organs? I'm in favour of timing since the announcement of Ukraine's Independence on August 24, 1991, but it makes sense that this is a change to the Local Self-Government Act, which is so logical that there is no need for a separate Law on the Determination of the Procedure for the Calculation of Calls by Local Governmental Authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to make a legislative base of 6,000 laws, or perhaps 10,000 laws, because I see a tendency to do so today, more than 3,000 laws. Let's work on the laws more responsibly and respectfully to our constituents, who will read the title of the law and say, "It's nothing for the MPs to do and they're proposing such a separate amendment to a separate law." Because we could make changes, so we can make changes to many laws, improve legislation, and not be ashamed. Look what you're printing in the Voice of Ukraine? What are these changes? I'm ashamed of what's being accepted and it's called the law of Ukraine. These are only changes to the law. I mean, as an idea, the idea has to be used, but doing it is very, very unprofessional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u133	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I'd like to say right now that we don't have to argue about the form, but we have to talk about the essence. The common thing is that we get a lot of consideration of laws that could be amended or something else. It's very simple here in this situation. Well, draft laws on the determination of the procedure for the calculation of the vocations of representative bodies of local self-governance. It's all clear. If it's an amendment, yes, it simplifies the situation. But when you do it in a separate law, it doesn't change the point. So I propose not to slow down the movement, so as not to throw it into a long box and then lose it there among hundreds of other bills, to support it in the first reading, to cooperate and to accept it as a whole, because this bill proposes a clear structure for the calculation of convocations in the local authorities, does not keep the gravity of "king Horoch" from Stalin and Barry. It's just to step away from it -- and everything here, in principle, there's no ideology, there's naked arithmetic, and there's got to be a law of proportionality. The higher legislative body should be commensurate with other councils, lower levels. So if we don't have associations here in the right category, then in the same category and sequences, we have to count the convocations in the local authorities. It's very simple. And here to blame whether a bourgeois government or not bourgeois is not involved. It's a parliamentary law, it's clearly written. And once again, form doesn't change the content. There's some kind of bill going through here that, well, we're intruding really isn't intruding. And this is a completely normal, clearly written project that supports the committee, and there are no warnings. So I urge you all here to simply support the local authorities, the local councils, who are now experiencing unprecedented persecution from the existing regime. We have a situation in Ternopilla, we have a situation in Zakarpat, we have a difficult situation in Lviv. This will soon be the session of the Lviv District Council, where fate will be decided by the elected people, or district council deputies, who did not attend the court to the local oligarchs of district importance. So I'm saying that at least this is what the Supreme Council should be supporting, supporting its younger ones, if you can put it that way, the brothers on the legislative bodies of the local, district, district councils. I urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u135	Yeah, we've got another "against," one "against." Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. You'll be out of town, won't you? Well, the microphone, please turn on Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u136	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear fellow national MPs, our distinguished voters. I think there's already a basic idea, I don't think there are opponents in the ideology of this bill. Understanding the aspirations and legislative concerns of Yuri Karmazin that, in fact, it would be wise not to multiply yet the law, from which the head is already going to turn, how many of them we have in Ukraine, and why nothing. Because anyway, I think that, Mr. Yuri, we need this bill now. Because I'd like to highlight another detail that my colleagues haven't talked about today. In fact, if we look today at how they count their vocations in Ukraine, we have two completely opposite states: one, let's say, East Ukraine, the other, Western Ukraine. Some are called democratic convocations, others are already leading their lineage from alternative elections and so forth. I think we need to unify this situation, and we will. Because, well, frankly, it's also necessary for our local self-government, because we do have a new page in our Ukrainian history. What is this page that this story is already another thing, or what we have, there, an independent state, maybe even a cartoon, but we still have it. And I think this bill should be adopted. And in closing, I just want to say it on the same subject. I literally just got back from my district, where, you can imagine, a session of the District Council is making a statement and making a decision on discharge from the post of head of the District Council?Oh, my God! This is what the same political power that is in power today does. I think it's totally unacceptable that when these people were intimidated there, they would lower their eyes and vote in favour of expressing mistrust to the head of the district council. I thank you and ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u137	Vladimir Cherniak. Cherniak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, it should be noted that the representative authorities of local self - government do not now play a proper role. And I think there's a debt behind the Supreme Council to raise to the right level the very representative organs of local self-government. That's what this law is all about. We also have to say that it's not about Soviet councils, it's about modern councils, and there's also a nuance that needs to be taken into account. I have the same doubts as to whether a separate law is needed. If this could be done, as a novel in the law on local self-government, I think it would be better. But since this is a one-time action and because there is an urgent need for this, given this situation, it would be possible to support it, but it would be better not to produce butterfly laws, but the framework laws and these framework laws have written these mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u139	Question completed. For reasons, please, Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u140	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I think today's Soviet era has been the best for the common people, and now there's only one abuse. As far as the bill is concerned, it is political in my opinion. Well, there's a special position in the west of Ukraine - it's their business. But what changed, for example, in the village of Ivanovka. As was John’s rural council, so is now. There are deputies of the local councils for 10-15 calls. Who among them and Ukrainian citizens needs a change in the numbering of calls. Besides, why throw money in the wind? You need to replace the certificate, the documentation. It's all over Ukraine. What about the documentation from 1990 to today, to rework it? Absurd. There is no need for strong movements in harmony with certain political forces. I am against the bill and I call on the MPs not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Boris Bespaliy, a closing statement from the committee. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Boris Bespalij, State Building Committee and local self - government Dear colleagues! There was a little discussion about the law. This law, I stress again, is absolutely not ideological. He is in this case pursuing the following technical but principled tasks, issues of important legal techniques. First. Agree with the calls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. Stop the chaos. And I've shown you in the district example, when four types of district once count their vocation differently. Third. There is absolutely no interference with the rights of members of the local councils who were elected 10, 15, 20, 30 years ago. All their benefits and benefits are preserved. And finally, the next. It's impossible to do this with the Local Self-Government Act, because there's going to be a new edition, for example. And this law has the same institutional character as, for example, the establishment of the post of President of Ukraine. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! The bill has been completed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law on the determination of the procedure for the calculation of the vocations of representative bodies of local self-government. [[Registration number 4188]] Please vote. [[13:11:35]] For 338 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was a committee proposal, since it was a short law to adopt it in general. Who has the objection? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u144	Solomon has a denial. I can't put it to a vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity is being announced for consideration. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Ivan Vasilovich Vasjunik Prepare Vladimir Skomarowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u145	Ivan Vasilik, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the bill that is proposed for your attention is proposed to introduce in a new edition part two of article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity, special sanctions. It is proposed that legislative provisions be made to ensure that special sanctions are applied solely on the basis of judicial decisions. This will allow entities to be legally protected from external economic activity at the time of considering the application of sanctions rather than post facto. There is every reason to claim that a valid institution for the application of special sanctions has practically become a mechanism for the destruction of business. 61 percent of Ukraine’s disciplined business entities have stopped external economic activity. Did the State win? Practice shows that very often Ukrainian businesses suffer damage because of the misbehavior of foreign counterparties. Even in cases where a foreign counterparty has failed to comply with his contractual obligations, the Ukrainian enterprise is subject to special sanctions as a life sentence. That's what the Ministry of Economics says. The average penalty period is 1,067 days or almost three years. For three years, what business will be able to kneel in front of the workers of Mineconomy to obtain permission for every external economic operation? With this in mind, it is proposed to limit the duration of special sanctions to six calendar months. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics had a very painful view of the bill. And you can understand that. However, it is very strange that the bill is linked to a procedural nature with the issue of the return of monetary values to Ukraine. No one opposes the struggle of sometimes permanent currency returns, but against the practice of double, I stress, double punishment for the same violation of legislation. I remind you that the valid law on the order of settlement in a foreign currency imposes a fine of 0.3 percent on the daily arrival of the foreign exchange proceeds or the under-received goods. In spite of this, the Mineconomy for the violation of monetary legislation has applied the individual licensing regime to almost 14,000 enterprises, with reasonable doubt as to the legality of such actions. To conclude, I would like to thank the Chief Scientific and Expert Office for supporting the bill, as well as the committees of economic policy and foreign affairs. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u146	From the committee, please, Skomarowski, head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investment. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Economic Policy Committee supports the A. I'll just give you one example. For example, a refrigeration company, an honorary president, is in the Supreme Council, a national deputy. The company is 80 percent of its product for export. The National MP turned there and criticized the customs. Customs are enough to write a letter to the Ministry of Economics, and the Ministry of Economics is giving an order in accordance with the current article 37, and the enterprise doesn't even know about it, and it stops the business's external economic activity without any restrictions, even for a hundred years. What does the business in question have to do today under the current legislation? It simply refers to a court of law. You know, it's almost a year, you lose contracts, you lose exports and so on. What does the author propose? He is proposing a European norm. You can't just have a customs office or a tax office go to the Ministry of Economics, and without a known enterprise, the Ministry of Economics can't issue such an order. He suggests simply that it be the decision of the court. That's it. And limit the duration of the sanctions to six months. I think it fits both European standards and our intention to join the WTO. The committee, once again, supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u148	Thank you. Government position. Vashchevsky Valeriy Mikolaiovich, First Deputy Minister of Economy and European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers does not support this bill because it disrupts the system that is currently in operation after the implementation of the Law on External Economic Activity. If the liquidation or, let's say, if the sanctions applied could be the Ministry of Economics cancelled within three or four days, then the proposed rule through a court order is going to be between two and six months. The operationality of making decisions decreases dramatically. And a number of other aspects of this law, which will complicate the work, are the external economic activities of economic operators. Therefore, this law does not support the request.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u150	Let's move on to the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies who are registered on the board. Yuri Carmazin. Please make your position clear, "yes" or "against". Two "for", two "against". We can't give others the right to speak. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u151	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have clearly fixed my position. In view of what the government is saying, I quote that "this is disrupting this project of the operating system," this is quoted by a government representative. I mean, yes. This system you've created has to be destroyed. Like Carthage, who was to be destroyed, and all obstacles to the free movement of goods, the legal one, must be eliminated because Ukraine has civilized laws. It's now suggested: a good offer is essentially, but there's a little bit of a problem with implementation. That's why I'm talking about the substance. In fact, I support, I will vote in favour of the adoption in the first reading, and I urge you to do so, because the sanctions are now being applied to the Mineconomy, as stated in the law, on the basis of decisions of the judicial authorities on the basis of the appeals of the State tax and audit authorities, customs and so on, and Nazbank, and now it is written “for the submission of the above-mentioned executive authorities except the judicial authorities”. I mean, volunteerism and the higher right to decide belongs to whom? Mine-economics. I will remind you that article 124 of the Constitution states that the above right to decide in this country, which Ukraine is called, does not belong to Mineconomy, but belongs to the courts. So in order for this to happen, you just have to accept the changes, sorry, not exactly in the execution that you're in right now. And so I took a look at the analysis that was done, in particular, by the experts of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and I think that representatives like Fomin and Emiliet have done their job brilliantly, and they have convincingly shown that the law should be adopted in the first reading, but we need to be clear about those negative phenomena that might lead to the adoption of this law in the way that it is now. That is to say, where the bill provides for the establishment of special sanctions at a time of six months, it should either cancel the current standard of article 37, part 2, of the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activity, which states that they are in force until the moment of application, or find another structure. Thus, they feel that this is causing an increase in the number of external economic offences. The first reading should be followed, and the second part of the suggestions made by the deputy and reported by the deputy should be eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u152	We already have a pro. Please, Andrew School. None. Mikola Rudzkowski. He won't speak. Yuri Solomatin, please. Why would you say no?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. This is where the centrifuges tell me to use the normal definition at the beginning of my speech. I'll use it. Thank you for reminding me. Dear colleagues and distinguished radio listeners, we are with you witnesses to the improvement of bourgeois legislation itself. What's the question? What's the question? If earlier in that order, according to the power vertical that was in Ukraine as a unitary state, these issues were resolved through the authority of the executive authority and it was properly responsible, due responsibility for using its powers improperly, now and the bourgeoisia that arose in Ukraine, it cannot agree with those who are sitting in Kabmin. This is the same situation that is said to have been stolen by a shoplifter. Who is more to blame than those who sit in Kabmin than those who do their business? So now the hope of all the new bourgeoisie is for the courts to decide these issues, how this is qualified, transparent, democratic and so on and so forth. But I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that the judicial system that is being created today is in such a terrible state, and when it still works, God knows. So think about it, respectable ones, where you lose more and where you find more from what you want to find. If some of my fellow MPs are implying whether or not they're saying, "Let's live our bourgeois court--the fairest court in the world!'--they seem to me to be mistaken: never will this court, which is formed as an independent power vertical, be independent and never will it perform its functions as you wish. Your dreams are unfounded. And finally. However, no more than that, the prescribed bill brings the issue of imposing sanctions to the fore. So our faction, the faction of the Communists of Ukraine, in spite of the remarks I made, concluded that we should try to see how the judicial branch of power would work on this issue. And that's why we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u154	There's two pros. Vladimir Cherniak are you "against"? So, what's the big deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u155	I'm so over it, I'm even against it. I'd say I'm stretching out between and against. Economic policy tools need to be applied delicately, adequately and effectively. A very delicate tool is a sanction tool. Sanctions can be used for both the benefit of the case and the harm, and they are usually used for harm. And there's a lot of opportunities for corruption, abuse. That's why the bill is needed. It's about an institution or a tool, applying special sanctions to external economic activity. What's the problem? The problem is that the law now allows these sanctions to be applied to the clerk. And an official is a category that always raises suspicion that he can erase it in the wrong way. And usually, life provides the basis for such suspicions. So that's what's proposed. It's suggested that we do everything we can to ensure that the 37th article of the law is not just enough to stop the business in the external market. So far, it's possible, which is what my colleagues were talking about today. I support the proposal that the issue of sanctions should be decided by the court, not by an official. But the question is again. If only we had a legal system that could make decisions. That's why I said yes and no. On the one hand, it is wrong for an official to make decisions, and on the other hand, according to practice, our courts are not making the best decision and not in favor of the case. And we're kind of in this kind of a vague situation, but still, the direction has to be defined -- not an official, and the court has to ultimately make these decisions. This is the first positive moment in the law. And second moment. Limit the duration of special sanctions to six months. This is also the right decision. I understand the government. The government would like to regulate, manage, manage processes and that is its natural desire, but there is a parliament for that to limit government all the time. But allowing it to use a tool.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u156	Thank you. Mikoli Onichuka's microphone, please. Thank you. Oneschuk's microphone, please. He'll make his way. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill under discussion suggests a really good idea for improving the sanctioning tools of the Ministry of Economics. But at the same time, textually as it's spelled, there's what's called a fold. Because the interpretation of article 41 of the Constitution, which says that confiscation of property is not allowed otherwise than the court's decision. But imposing sanctions, including when it comes to restrictions on licensing regimes, on their own sanctions, are not necessary for judicial intervention. On the other hand, the sanctions that exist today in the form of cessation of activity, as I think, may require a court decision. I mean, it's no coincidence that the national MP who just spoke said that he was stretching out because he didn't know, and it's a good idea, and he'd have to work on it. But a normal way of life requires substantial work. So if you vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u158	Just on the ground, is that the offer? Dear colleagues! Question completed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on External Economic Activity. [[Registration number 3300]] [[13:30:20.]] For 219 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to re-read the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on External Economic Activity. [[Registration number 3300]] [[13:30:52]] For 345. Dear colleagues! I just want to say that by rereading, we're putting the problem behind us. It could have been taken as a basis if the committee were working at the time. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We've just considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice on members of the Council. There was an offer from the committee to accept it in general as a law. But MP Manchulenko George said that he should make comments and his proposals for second reading. Now he says that he has withdrawn his warnings, and the committee suggests that we go back and adopt this law as a whole. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u159	I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as the bill of the draft Act amending the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice, registration number 4173-1. [[on the members of the Council]] Please vote. [[13:32:05]] For 306 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens is being announced for consideration. National Deputy Vasjunik Ivan Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I ask the Chamber to postpone the consideration of this bill to the next plenary week. I have consulted with a number of factions’ leaders, and I need to discuss the preceding one further. This bill is very large and affects many aspects of both human rights and entrepreneurial activities. Please transfer it to the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, no warning? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u162	We're transferring it to the next plenary week. I ask the Secretariat to record this. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the performance of post-authority duties]] Communicator Komar Mikola Stepanovich, Ukrainian National Deputy Please prepare Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, just in our legislation, there is no legislative position at this time to assume the responsibilities of head when he ceases to have authority. Without considering the reasons for the suspension, there is simply no law in all cases regarding who is performing these duties. In fact, he always serves as the secretary of the council, but this is half legal. When acting as a substitute for head, in rural councils these are largely people who are always in a position, but who are a substitute. And then the accountant and the secretary of the Supreme Council do this work, but he signs, sometimes he signs what they're crying about. This law proposes that this gap be eliminated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u164	Thank you, Nicholas Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. The word for the report is given by the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule, Anatoly Volodymyrovich Orzhachowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u165	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MP. At its meeting on July 2, 2003, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Local Self - Government in Ukraine to carry out its duties after termination. The authors of the National Deputies of Ukraine Komar and Korsakov, number 3599. The findings of the scientific management have also been considered. On the basis of discussions and conclusions, the committee expressed its support for the bill and its support in the first reading and adoption as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u166	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss it? Yeah, I see they're signed up. On the board then, please, the names of the national MPs who are enrolled. Vladimir Puzakov has a word, a faction of Communists, to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u167	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština To date, we know that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has a large number of appeals that raise the question of how to make the main official of cities, villages, villages more proper and independent than the council. In particular, the constitutionality of the right to free a village, a village, a city’s head by two thirds of the vote is questioned. Cessation of powers of the head, including time-limits, is one of the constitutional models of the law enforcement institution. But the proposed bill reflects the tendency of councils to exercise authority and to preside over other higher bodies to exercise local self - rule. The secretary of the council is chosen from the number of deputies, and is often, at present, a simple lobbyist of business structures, and the protection of the interests of the territorial community goes on a different path. Therefore, it seems logical not only to authorize but also to oblige other institutions and bodies to exercise local self - government, especially heads, to break the matter of both the timely termination of powers and the impeachment of appropriate councils and executive committees. The establishment of such a standard would be a fact of recognition not only of wrongfulness but also of the illegality of acts of councils and executive committees in the possibility of drawing their members to legal responsibility. It is only in such a tract that it is necessary to make changes to the stated law of Ukraine so that these changes are clearly, specifically, and clearly written down by the institution. In accordance with article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the secretary of the City Council does not have the necessary authority to perform direct executive functions. The secretary of the City Council is a political person and does not do so in practice. Therefore, the proposed bill of trust would not be constitutional in the absence of a rural, rural, city head of his duties to the relevant secretary of the council. These duties should be performed either by one of the city’s deputy heads or by a person of the number of executive bodies who is not a member of the relevant council. But this proposal is also not yet properly worked out. Because changes to such laws require a very balanced approach. Although Ukraine needs a new law on local self - government. This fact dictates time and necessity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u169	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. We had several crisis situations in the country that were in Yalta, Odessa, in Kirovograd, now the modern history of the city of Red Light, where, without the decision of the Supreme Council, re-elections were scheduled, by the way, the Attorney General's Office is silent. I'm going to Hennady Andrievich Vasiliev, Hennady Andriyovich, there's no decision of the Supreme Council to announce the elections in Red Luch territory, but they're there. And now, in the end, after Zakarpatti, Mukachev was appointed instead of a city head, by an order from the president of the deputy governor, or the head of the district government. I mean, the issue needs to be settled, and it needs to be settled so much that it needs to be settled right now. And I address, with great respect, the deputy who spoke to me. Dear friend, who gives authority to the Head? They're giving in to MPs. Who gives the authority and is chosen from among the deputies? Who authorizes the Secretary of the Council? The MPs are also elected. And the deputy is not one of the deputies, and he can't perform all the functions that he is. So I think I'm going to convince you and you're going to take your warnings off because I've seen this bill, and this bill is a temporary phenomenon. And to be appointed by law, the Supreme Council should be adopted in both the first and the second readings. And then it's going to be a guarantee that we don't create commissions of inquiry, as we've already created, that we don't have to create them, that we don't have to make them, that everything is going to be written here in the law. So I ask the right and the left and the centre to make a reasonable decision on the adoption of this bill in two readings and to agree that a member of the council who is entrusted with the Council has the right for a while to assume the duties of head of this council, just as our law is kind to you, honourable national deputies, can perform duties if, say, all of them go away, our leaders are to be deployed. A loved one of you can sit down and guide this council, for he today has the confidence of the electorate. So, dear friends, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u170	Just don't give them the initiative. I'm asking you to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u171	No, no. I want our Head to be here because it will be the guarantee that they will observe the requirements of the Rules of Law and the elections. And I turned to my suggestions, and they cannot be accounted for, for only five days have passed since the time taken into account. That's why I want my head to be in charge, but I'm just asking you that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u172	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski has the floor. We have one "for", one "against" we have. The Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u173	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I have to say from the beginning that me and the faction, we're going to support this bill. Of course, it would be possible to agree on some points with the preceding speaker in the part that could be predicted and complemented by the proposal made by the national deputies. in that part of the responsibility that the elected members of the session may perform. But it was also a warning on our committee on local self-government in the part that maybe the secretary is the one who knows the most about the situation in the village, and it can be weighed down on many issues to address local problems. However, there is also one warning why our committee did not immediately propose to vote in general. This is a warning first of all, and this is my point of view that we should predict, nevertheless, and specify the time that the appropriate elections should take place if the powers of the rural, rural, urban head are to be terminated for the term. If that is not the case, we may have a host of problems related to the fact that the authorities are convenient enough for the secretary in charge of this council for a long time without an election, or a certain political power, or for the secretary himself may be pleased. They say there's no money, there's not much. We know where we are today, our rural and village councils, where no one thinks about them financially or materially, or legislatively. So in this position, I'm going to make a suggestion that the second reading should work and that's the term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u174	Thank you. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. All the words needed to determine the substance of the bill seem to have already been said. Also noted is the position of the Communist faction on this issue. That's what my colleague, my faction buddy Anatoly Orzhachowski said. I would like to draw your attention once again to the political content of the issue of local self-government in Ukraine. I've called our collective attention several times to the fact that in an effort to get away from power in the hands of one branch of power -- in this case, it always suggests the unlimited powers of the President and his administration -- we're trying to create another opposite power, in the first place, with just such almost unlimited powers. What are we doing? We are destroying Ukraine as a unitary state, turning it into a federal assembly of independent structures of power. And what we finally get -- even today we can't predict. So I'd like to ask you not to take this opportunity to do so, not to destroy Ukraine as a unitary state, but to preserve it, so that that central executive authority has the proper authority and they kind of aligned themselves with the authority of the local government, so that they don't have the opposition, as is often the case today, but the interaction, the interaction for the benefit of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u176	Please, Anatoly Pavlovich Hare, First Deputy Minister of Justice. The position of the government on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u177	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We believe that the arrangement for the replacement of the missing rural, rural, urban head is useful for the functioning of local self-government. The Cabinet of Ministers therefore supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on the performance of post-authority duties]] Registration number 3599. Please vote. [[13:47:11]] For 363 Decision taken. [[The voice from the hall.]] [[DO NOT HEAR]] With what warnings? I don't know. Dear colleagues, or we can, if there is an offer and there is no objection, put it all together. And if there's a warning, you can. Please, Anatoly Orzhachowski. Microphone, please. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u179	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, when I was speaking and doing a co-report, I said that the position of the committee was in the first reading on the basis of acceptance. When I spoke from the rostrum, I made a warning on the part that it takes time for the second reading to think about how to predict the term in this law, so that the rightfulness would be to hold the elections, so that they would be guaranteed, because now we have the election of the constituencies of the district council, I know whether in Chernig--yes? In Montenegro, when no one has assigned them for quite a long time. This may be the case with the secretary of the country and so on and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u180	Then let's do it. I ask you, Komar, the author of the bill. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u181	. Dear colleagues, the point is, we have a time-bar election that says there's no time-limits for the election of deputies. In general, I believe that this can be amended by a separate law. And what is proposed today is that there is no order today, what we are talking about today, let us vote in general. There were 363 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u182	If there's a warning, I can't put it. There are warnings, Your Honors, agree your positions, and I will gladly put this bill to the vote. We continue our session for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the responsibility of government members]] Reporter of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption Strtovich Vladimir Mikolajovic. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! According to a commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the draft Law on Combating Corruption (registration number 3169 of February 26, submitted by Ukraine’s National Deputies Stretovich and Zwania) is first read. The project removes the gap in legislation regarding the responsibility of the Prime Minister and other members of the Cabinet of Ministers for acts of corruption and other corruption-related offences. At present, according to article 2 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, the act of this law does not extend to the designated officials, regardless of the fact that they are also senior officials authorized to perform the functions of a state with a special order of appointment and discharge. Therefore, taking into account the above, as well as the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt this Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act No. 3169. Considering that the legislative proposal consists of one sentence, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask him to accept it as a whole. And from my point of view, there's the Anti-Corruption Act today, and there are two categories of officials just listed: the civil servants and in the second paragraph, the national deputies and deputies of the ARC Supreme Council and the local councils, and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister are out, so we're filling this gap in the right. And there's no political tension here without asking questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u184	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oily Boris Ilych with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u185	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I'm talking to Stretovich. Is there a precedent for one high - ranking official to be placed in his place in history where you suggest it, for only, so Paul Ivanovich is sitting there and some is sitting at the top.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u186	History speaks of this. We don't have the answer to the question, that's the question, then you tell it. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this bill? Who insists? All right, then, on the board, please tell me who signed up, because there are 12 people. Things are obvious. Let's define by vote. Yuri Carmazin, do you insist? Please. I ask very briefly, dear colleagues, we still have work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u187	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for article two, “Subjects of Corruption and Other Offences”, relating to corruption, to supplement the law with a new paragraph, according to which members of the Cabinet of Ministers will be included in the list of activities. I'm addressing you, and I'm calling on the special forces to fight the organized crime and corruption that are to be carried out in these laws, to the effect that today's enforcement of this law is harmful to Ukrainian citizens. Harmful because they are generally drawn to administrative responsibility by those who are secretaries of village councils and petty, petty officials. In this way this law, to which changes are made, should not exist at all because there are official crimes and so forth. We've given orders to the Ukrainian government on several occasions that it should make complex additions, because there are no employees and officials and the Ministry of Defence, no border guards or judges, it's not distributed, it's the law, it's the judges. This law is not distributed to representatives of the National Bank, not just to members of the government. So by subject, this law can be supplemented and supplemented. And when I talk about the implementation of this law, I want you to know that, despite the fact that the President of Ukraine has adopted an order, he has decreed that security officials be removed from various organizations, such a right, including entering, diving into the political party environment, is now in the division of fighting organized crime, which is with the Ministry of Justice. And so, for government funds, political orders are also being made. Today, a committee with the Supreme Council is unable to perform control functions because they are not given them. The Presidential Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption cannot perform these functions. But there is an expense and there is a use of these funds that is not necessary. So I believe that on the first reading this can be accepted, and it can be complemented by those subjects that I have spoken about that are not yet covered by this law. But without the civil and parliamentary control of these units that are being acquired today, they have only one right to be applied, and if the branches of the BSS are being drawn up, this control needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u188	Andrew School, please. Turn on Andrew School. I understand you're handing over Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u189	Thank you. I want to pass the word to Gregory Omelchenko and I want to say that this bill should be adopted in both the first and the final reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u190	Gregory Omelchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u191	Thank you. Election Block of Yulia Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Union of Ukrainian Officers. Dear colleagues, a few parts of this brief bill that our committee is proposing. First of all, it really needs to be accepted as a law in general. There was, indeed, a conflict when the legal concept of the government came to pass. And according to the Criminal Code, they refer to the category "State Actors." The Anti-Corruption Act says "government officials," they don't fall under this category. And so when it comes to the application of the Law on the Violation of Higher Officials, I mean the government, the Anti-Corruption Act, it comes from such a lack of effective legislation. So once again I stress that this bill I also ask on behalf of the committee to accept as a law as a whole. The other one. I agree with Yuri Carmazin, who said that the current Anti-Corruption Act, the current executive authority, is a very strict, sharp sword that is usually used to order. There is persecution of the heads of rural, rural, city councils, secretaries, officials of the lowest level, who are attracted to minor violations of the Law on Combating Corruption. Yes, for any violation of existing legislation, it is necessary to bring responsibility to the established law. It is true that before the law all should be equal, beginning with the President and ending with the very little circuit overseer or official. And the question asked by our colleague Boris Olijnik, who, in these years since the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act, has been drawn to administrative responsibility, even though it is level, starting with district leadership, and Vladimir Mikhailovich has also rightly said that history is conceivable, there is no involvement in the responsibility of the highest officials in all these years, stressing neither criminal responsibility nor the administrative responsibility for violating the Anti-Corruption Act. I'll say something else. According to the Law on Combating Corruption, honourable national deputies, the assumed responsibility for providing unreliable, incomplete information to you, us national deputies, for parliamentary inquiries and appeals. Yet, none of the government’s high officials have been called to administrative responsibility for failing to implement the Law on Combating Corruption in this part. Last week, you voted on my parliamentary request, where the question of bringing officials of the Ministry of Defence to justice for providing unreliable information on parliamentary inquiries and appeals was first raised. He was addressed to the Attorney General and the Minister of Defense. I'll see how the Attorney General reacts when the highest officials of the Ministry of Defence are affected. And to the end. We'll also improve criminal legislation, we'll improve administrative legislation aimed at resisting corruption, money laundering, and crime. But until the political power is changed, none of them will bear real responsibility. When I finish my speech, I ask you to uphold this law and adopt it in general, and I am convinced that even the Prime Minister himself would be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u192	Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, prepare Volodymyr Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out immediately that our faction supports this bill and will vote for it. But I also want to give a proper political assessment of the substance of this bill. Even the very name of the committee that's profiled for this bill -- the fight against organized crime and corruption -- seems very attractive. Let's all agree that as long as there's "overtaken by capital," there will be corruption and there will be such committees and such a legislative base. But there will never be anything good and beneficial for our people. And I can argue that not only by our own facts, but also by the fact that such corruption is being done in the higher echelons of power, even the so-called "worldly civilized democracies -- the United States of America, Europe and so forth. A year ago, or a little more than all the United States, and even the whole world, were bewildered by corporate scandals surrounding Enron Energy Corporation and Anderson Auditorium. There have been a lot of publications on this subject, as these two rogue offices have purchased both the Democratic Party of the United States and the Republic, and even some officials in the government and in the presidential structures, and so on, and so on, and so on, and what ended only a few weeks ago was a report that the prosecutor finally gave permission, agreed that the head of the Enron Corporation should be drawn to. And those who took these bribes in the higher echelons of power are not involved in the prosecution’s discussions. The same goes for the Parmalate scandal, which is headed or around which the Prime Minister of Italy, Berlusconi, is connected and so on and so on and so forth. That's why I want to say it. The venerable bourgeois, the honorable gentlemen of capitalists, the trouble is yours to improve this bourgeois system so that it will work in such a way that there will be no thefts, no corporations. And we will do that once the people of Ukraine regain their trust in the Communist Party of Ukraine and we will be given this mandate of trust in both the President's election and in the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- and we will resolve this issue once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, well, then, then. Volodymira Puzakov announced it. Please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u195	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. We must have turned very late to the second article of the law, which is an addition to the fact that the members of the Government are responsible for the crimes of corruption. Corruption in Ukraine permeates everything. All spheres, areas, levels of power, because the main feature of Ukrainian corruption is its comprehensiveness. The root of this ugly phenomenon is the policy of the principal sovereigns, who do not grumble to retain power by any means, including corruption. Ukraine is a country of phenomenon in this regard. Corruption has grown to such an extent that it has become a system of power. As a result, the public policy in Ukraine is directly dictated by the private interests of the authorities who are able to influence it. In 1993, President Kravchuk signed the Decree establishing the Coordinating Committee against Corruption and Organized Crime, although he was the first to launch corruption by selling Black Sea shipping, and transferred millions of foreign currency to foreign banks by placing a coupon in circulation, depreciating the Soviet rouble. Over $132 billion of people’s savings were frozen in the bank. He was followed by Prime Minister Lazarenko. The Prime Minister of the current President is marked by the notorious trusts and the biggest voucher affair. And the people are silent, patient, because criminal power has been able to intimidate people with repression and famine. Today, corruption in Ukraine goes hand in hand with organized crime, where they live by the principle: “without their bandit, without their hands”. Such cooperation is very dangerous, but only for the working people, and the power, using the resources of criminal groups, wins and heroically survives. A fresh example is the Attorney-General, Piscoon, who was approached by a thousand people in the hope of getting help and was himself a major corrupter. What, the authorities didn't see or know he was the first criminal? Where was the President who once said that Piscoon was the leading director in an organized criminal world? Today, it is also true that corruption has become an instrument of policy, the placement of staff at the highest levels of government, and the mechanism for the sale of power. I would also like to point out that Ukraine has in general established a sufficient legislative framework to effectively combat corruption, but this fight today reminds us of gunfire on sparrows, a lot of noise, and the result is gulkin nose. It is therefore necessary to change today, not the second article, but the entire economic and political system, legal protection and power structures. That's what the President is talking about, by the way, but for some reason he's not taking action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u196	Yes, please, the position of the government. Emilianova Inna Ivanovna, Deputy Minister of Justice for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u197	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, in view of the fact that the office of members of the government by Presidential Decree has been assigned to political positions by the nature of the mandate, the order of appointment and the discharge and is not assigned to the category of civil servants, the government does not see the legal grounds for not supporting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u198	The motive is Taras Crnowil, then Karnauh. Oh, no? Yes, you've already raised your hand. It's a motivator.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u199	Dear colleagues. This law, like the following two laws, must be upheld because they regulate the fight against corruption and organized crime. And what my colleague Solomon said is that organized crime and corruption exist everywhere, but in Ukraine we have to fight it with you. We are not interested in the United States and other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u200	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[on the responsibility of the members of the Government]] Registration number 3169. [[14:06:47]] For-195 The factions? Please. For - 165, no decision is taken. "Our Ukraine" - 93, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, faction of Communists - 58, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and Labour Ukraine - 0, SDPU(o) - 0, People's Government - 1, SPO - 20, Block of Yulia Timoshenko - 19, Deminitive - 0, Agrarian Party - 0, National Choice - 0, NDP - 0, non-fractional - 4. What's the committee's offer? Volodymyr Stretovic. One minute, dear fellows. Is there no offer? So the bill is rejected. Yes, dear colleagues, we have 10. Well, that's the end of the vote. Please, one of Rudzkowski's motives. You've all spoken before, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u201	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Once again, this vote, who wants to fight corruption, and who wants to lead it. Unfortunately, the faction of the regions that now represents, as it were, the government in the Supreme Council even pulled out the cards. I'm asking you to consult on the Conciliation Council right now. Then, at 4: 00 p.m., you're the government official. If you want to work with transparency, please adopt this law at least in the first reading and say that corruption has no bearing on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u202	Yes, thank you. Head of the Strtovich Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u203	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that some of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers have been provided with possible corruption. But if it's stated that today the newspaper "The Stoic Gazette" says that Janukovic doesn't need any personal protection, that the Prime Minister is beyond suspicion as a woman of the king, still needs to be put to the vote and show that you're ready to be persecuted. So I'm asking you, let's put it to a vote after four hours, because the whole world is going to laugh, and I'm telling you once again that the ruling presidential majority doesn't vote for such a bill. This is nonsense, or, as Vassil Stepenko said, full of annunciation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-23-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. If there's a committee proposal for re-reading, I'll put it to the vote. But you put it to a vote, then let's pick up the signatures in 226 votes, and I'll put it to a vote on going back to the question and then looking at it. There's an offer for re-reading. I am voting for the re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, registration number 3169. [[on the responsibility of government members]] [[14:10:06]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. By factions, please explain to the faction board. I'll read it. Our Ukraine is 87, the Ukraine is 0, the Communists are 56, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Urban Ukraine" is 0, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is 0, the People's Government is 0, the SPI-19, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 19, the Democratic Initiative is 0, the Agrarian Party is 0, the People's Choice is 0, the NDP is 1, the Postfaction is 5. [[united]] Dear colleagues! Announcement. I'm informing you of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Deputy of Ukraine Vasiliev. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00. I mean, break to 4:00. Leaders of the MP factions and groups, please gather in the head office.
