ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:01:51]] Registered -418 There are 418 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I see more bouquets in our hall than the national deputies, perhaps in the hall. So let's, we know that tomorrow there's a professional health worker's day in our country. Let us, on your behalf, welcome those professional medical professionals who work as national deputies and doubtless all those who are in our people’s health. Let's just make sure that at the holiday we're working all the time today. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. I'm asking you to sign up the National Deputies for statements, messages and suggestions. In the meantime, I'll make an announcement. People’s deputies of Ukraine - Julia TIMOSHENKO to the President of Ukraine were asked about the allocation of a car with manual disability control of the Great Homeland War, a resident of the Prilytsky region of the Chernigiv region. Please vote in favour of request. [[10:03:47]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prospect of using property and infrastructure in the military town of part A-1515 in the village of Matyashovka in the region of Poltava. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper storage of ammunition in a missile-arthillery weapons warehouse located near the villages of Kamyan and Snowing of the Starożinetsky region of the Chernivecki region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the contribution to the return of savings for the operation of the group II disabled, a participant in the Great Homeland War. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper provision of military personnel released from military service during various calendar periods. Anatoly of ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the inhabitants of the village of Cairo and the factory of the Hornostiv region of the Hersonian region from the coastal influence of the Kakhov reservoir. Mr Alexander ZAVODNE to the Prime Minister on the introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the order in which fishing and sports are carried out” after the adoption of the Ukrainian Fisheries Act. Mr. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the completion of the advisory clinic of the Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Bogdan Kostinjuk and Yuri KLEČKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the necessity of honoring the fighters of the Ukrainian rebel army in the creation of the Memorial Complex of Respect and Emancipation of the Victory in the War of 1941-1945. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extraordinary situation that took place at the Medjibian School of Higher Education in the region of the Hmelni district as a result of the emergency of the premises. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving the railway connection between the city of Lutka and taking into account the possibility of long-distance trains. [[PHYDENKO, BONDAR, KYRILCHUK, AND OTHERS. Total 6 deputies]] Vladimir BONDAR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request for violations of article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and article 58 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2004. Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation to the farmers of the Hussetin district of Ternopil region for damage caused by adverse climatic conditions in 2003. Vasil TUSHKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to open and arrange crossing points across the border in the area of transit roads of Alexandrovka-Lisne, Forest-Elizavetovka in the Odessa region. Mr Mikoli Nosenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the sharp difference in the value of the forms of certificates for the completion of the teaching profession of the “Driver of Motor Vehicles” and the creation of unequal financial conditions for obtaining the profession. SUNCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the regional units of the State Customs Service of Ukraine Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova for free trade. MICHELLA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a low level of salary for the work of district court officials. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the violation of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the approval of the general structure, the number, the definition of the functions of the Security Service of Ukraine and the exercise of parliamentary control within the limits defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka to the Head of the Supreme Council, Head of the President’s Administration, on the disclosure of the incomes of the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian President’s Administration for 2003. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council on the situation surrounding the children's treatment and prevention facility of Dobroža city of Kyrovgrad. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the payment of rent for residential services to the parents of military personnel who died during military service. Mr. Vladimir Rabbit to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for Financial Assistance to the Corstostisov City Municipal Company Vodkanal. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the reimbursement of funds owed by the Bank “Ukraine” to the Taleniv Automobile Transport Company 17137 of the Cherka region. MIKOLI MELNIKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko for the award of a grant for the selective development of the animal production of the private agricultural enterprise “Gnatovsk” Tomaspilski district of Vinnitsk Region. Anatolia GREZEVA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Andrija Kljeva, head of Kyiv City State Administration for the restoration of the work of the milk-kitchen food factory No. 1 in Kiev. Anatolia FRANCEUKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, concerning the inclusion of the Bahchisarai region in the areas of priority development. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the creation of proper living conditions and training for orphans, children with mental disabilities in the Hersonian boarding school. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dimitar Tobacco for the payment of arrears on salary to the workers of the Bilocerkow Dramatic Theatre. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to take action and false answers to a parliamentary request. VITALIA ŠIBKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of measures taken by the Prosecutor's Office of the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska for the protection of the rights of citizens of Dnipropetrovska and Kostenko. Alexia BABURINA and Yuri ARTEMENKA to the Attorney General on the legality of the activities of officials of the tax police in the Ordjonikidzew district of Zaporozhye. Vitalia ŠIBKA to the Attorney General on the illegal alienation of property of the Open Shareholder Society “The Dniprojnijski hrobochkobinat” and violation of citizens’ rights to pay. Mr Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the abuse by officials of the tax administration of the village of the town type of Chutov Poltavian region in the sale of property of companies with limited liability “Asphalt” and “Agroslachbud” in the amount of tax debt repayment. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI to the Attorney General on the verification of the criminal activity of a group of fraudsters in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Stepan BULBI to the Attorney General on the appeal of the inhabitants of Poltava to protect the rights of shareholders of the closed stockholders of the Poltavska “Vorskla” company. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija Samoplavski to the Attorney-General on the disposal of property of the closed stock company Sosnowski Grankarer, following the withdrawal of the founders of the Ukrainian Cooperative State Corporation for the agricultural construction of Ukraine’s Ukragroprombud. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General in connection with his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary requests for a violation of a criminal case against the head of the territorial election committee for the election of the Mukatov city chief Yuri Peretti for article 158 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of owners of property and land rations of a group of agricultural associations with limited responsibility “Orlovetsk” by the local authority of the City of Cherkas region. A group of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the situation in the village of Yavorov in the region of Ivano-Frankow region in connection with the illegal use of land of the territorial community by the Open Stock Exchange Association “Ukranafta”. [[MELNICHUK, MALINOVSKI, SINGER, HARMASH]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption under the President of Ukraine on the use of measures regarding the improper verification by members of the liner department of the Odessa-Glovna Police Department of the Odessa Railway and the Odessa Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region of the situation of trauma to members of the Grozevi family as a result of the arrival of an electric train to falsify the protocol to review the scene of the deliberate execution of the court decisions and the improper pervert of a parliamentary appeal. Vasil TUSCHKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the threats and illegal actions of the Odessa City Council deputy Boyukli regarding the subject of the entrepreneurial activity of a citizen named Trumin. Vladimir NOVAK to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of assistance in the treatment of fire victims – half orphans Tetjani Mazurkevich. Mr Boris TARASJUKA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the application of the educational team of the Vinick State Teachers University regarding the legality of the appointment of a candidate as Rector. Hennady RUDENKA to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine on the verification of the organisational and legal form of management and the financial and economic activity of the “Feodosian Oil Company”. JANUARY to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the provision of treatment on a free basis for disabled persons and groups, a veteran of the work of Krüchkov, at the specialized medical facility of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. RAISES OF THE rich to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the state of retirement of former workers who have been directly engaged in jobs with particularly harmful conditions of work. Ms. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Directorate-General for Combating Organized Crime in connection with the abuse of office and the violation of effective law by law enforcement officials in Kiev. YEUGENA YULTIA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the violation of housing law and the failure of members of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to ignore parliamentary appeals by members of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence on the issue of the relocation of residents of a residential residence in the military town of the village of Gorenichi of Kyiv. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the support of law enforcement authorities in the fight against organized crime in Kiev. [[THE rainstorm, the bush, the snails, and others. Total 9 deputies]] Anatolia FRENCHUKA to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine on the inclusion of the gasification of the village of Glukki Yar of the Bahchisarai region in the 2005 capital investment plan. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the violation of the laws of law in force by officials of the Gordnian District State Administration of the Chernig region. Andrea POLIETA to the Krivoriz City Head on the violation of the rights of the subject of entrepreneurship of the Society with limited responsibility “Atori”. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the improvement of the living conditions of the many - child family of Mikli Kravczuk. Petra SABASUKA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the verification of the intentional damage to the State budget of Ukraine by the Negative Municipal Company of the City Heat Networks. YEUGENA JOLLY to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the improper response of the Ukrainian Security Service to parliamentary appeals related to the report of the illegal circulation of narcotic raw materials in the city of Vasilkov and the deliberate creation of conditions in the “Svetanok” farm of the village of Kovalovka Kyivsk district for the spread of poppy straw. Mr. KARMAZIN to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Coordinating Committee for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime at the President of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Verification of Crime Authorities for the Official Protection of the Pope of the Roman Ionn Paul – II, during his visit to Ukraine in 2001, President of Ukraine in the city of Lviv, Head of the Office of Security of Ukraine to the Strong and former Head of the Administration of State Auto-Inspection of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region of Salom, and the proposal to release them from the respective units. The National Deputy of Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the failure of a child-rearing organization in the Volin region in 2004. Request completed. Please give us a list of who we have signed up for. So, please, we have 13 more, so let's take 15 minutes. Please, Loboda. Get ready for Anishtuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u2	I'd like to give it to Volodymyr Mikolayovich Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u3	Please, Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. On June 16, 2004, on the way out of the elevator on June 16, 2004, two young men were beaten by the secretary of the Hmelnick City Committee of Comrade Schwarzman Georgi Isakovic. Attacked by the subterranean, beaten with iron rods in masks, broken skulls. A person had to be sent straight away for resuscitation and surgery. Now the person is in an extremely difficult condition, and his friends are taking care of him. It's understandable what this is all about. Peasants view this incident as the beginning of an electoral power company. There is no doubt that this crime is ordered, as is the person who ordered it. The presidential election race began. And it is clear that the authorities will not stop at anything. Mukachevo had scares and fists. Iron rods and masks were at work in Hmelnickýk. But under which masks do not hide criminal faces, you can see them, this is the face of today's power, which can no longer contradict the truth with which Communists go to people except for iron sticks and masks. This is how the authorities try to influence the course of elections. The arguments are well-known, but fascism, and otherwise it's impossible to call it impossible, will not pass. Communists are not to be intimidated. We contrast the power of truth, the truth with which we go to people. The truth with which we defend and protect their interests. Please consider my statement a request today to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs. I ask that they take and demand that they take control of the investigation of this crime and that we consider what political crime is like ordering power, an order directed against the Communists, against the Communist Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Instead of Oniszczuk, the National Deputy of Samylik. After her, Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u6	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear voters, June 22nd at 11 p.m., there will be the All-Ukrainian Action, conducted by the All-Ukrainian Union of Women Workers for the Future of the Children of Ukraine. "Return our children from Iraq" action. It is I who represent the very organization that women give birth to and raise for our Motherland with you, for Ukraine, in order to multiply the honor, the glory of our Fatherland. They don't, in fact, have these women's properties in our state, and abroad, they don't have any spare airports that they'll run from if they're just and normal. It will definitely be in our country. But they have the main thing, not the password, but the work, they love our Motherland - Ukraine with you. And I propose and urge all the men and women who care about the fate of our children to come on June 22 exactly at 11 o'clock on the field of Independence and say, "No war!" I invite you to come there and the women who voted in favour of sending our children to Iraq. I invite you to come to this action and representatives of the parliamentary-government majority. And those 50 percent of the "ours" who also sent our children to a faithful death to participate in a bloody slaughter. This will take place on June 22, on such a tragic day for our nation, when each family knows the cost of occupation, knows how many cities, villages, and millions of hanged people have been destroyed. And I think that on this day we should all be with these courageous women who are protesting against our decision against those who have joined the coalition and have supported the President of Ukraine in his intentions to send our children to the faithful death with you. I want to remind you again, we urge everyone who cares about the future of Ukraine and our children. And I want to say to you national deputies, come and look into these women's eyes who don't care about their political image, not their business, but make sure that there's real peace in our country and that our children feel like their own children in our country, not out there, abroad. I'd like to invite you on June 22 exactly at 11:00 on Mayan Independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Gladys. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u8	A statement by the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! It is known that politics, as in every sphere of society, has a limit on what is allowed, a transition that is not just undesirable, but extremely dangerous. Our party has consistently and rigorously followed these principles throughout the years, exercising tolerance and respect for other political structures, both at the regional level and at the centre. Our faction and party often deliberately intervened in many cases and did not create conflict situations in the formation of governmental and parliamentary structures. From time to time, however, some politicians and individual political forces try to destabilize the situation in our party, to use administrative powers for their party and political purposes, to impose not only their own narrow party interests, but even their leaders. The scenarios of similar dirty projects from some political structures, and unfortunately, close to us in the parliamentary and governmental coalition, were reported by the media, which is why I will not repeat myself. I will only point out that the party’s sixth out - of - turn assembly expressed its negative attitude toward our attempts to intervene in our internal affairs. This behavior of our political contemporaries has given rise to special surprises and outrages among members of our party, members of different levels in places where pressure and blackmail are used to dissolve one another, and other parliamentary groups and associations in the district and district groups are formed to support one political force. We also cannot accept the fact that it is the administrative methods of one political force that change on the ground, not by the principle of professionalism, but by party ownership. In particular, in this way the heads of the forest administrations of our party in Chernivetsk, Zakarpatsk, and Lviv areas were released. The same is true of the newly appointed governor of Winnitzkin. Similarly, the head of the Kobelyak district of Poltav region was removed from work. In the Chernigiv region, an attempt was made to replace the head of our regional party organization, but as delegates to the conference they gave a firm standoff. We are confident that such facts do not only add authority to a particular political party that uses the power of executive power harshly and unwarrantedly but also destabilizes. What kind of political unity, mutual respect, and mutual support can be discussed when one is declared and another is done? The structure of the parliamentary majority is neither strong nor stable nor in the political interests of our faction to rock it. So, we claim that if the pressure continues on our party members, we leave the right to get out of the majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u9	Yes, please, Shershun. Shershun's gone. Instead of Grimy, the Oily, please. Get ready for the Jacobite.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, the level of civilisation of any state is determined first by the stability, the non-conflict of international relations in its territories. In this sense, Ukraine, which has never suffered from ethnocentrism and a complex of God - choice, has been able to serve as an encouraging pattern on earth since Kyiv’s time. Back in the early days of independence, we urged each other to act in a way that, for example, the Jew lived better in Ukraine than in Israel, and the Russian was better than in Russia. Today, we can bear witness to the world that this call has been successfully implemented. I'm talking about it with pride, as it belongs to a teacher of noble principles of internationalism, whether he likes brotherly affection. True, my pride and circumstances clouded that five million more had died than we had been born as we put into practice the regime of the highest welfare of the Nacionalites. And, excuse me, the evolution of the extinction of the nation is growing steadily. Who, then, will respect the title people who allow themselves to be physically and morally misled to the level of the Nazis? Now, tell me, when are we going to end up blaming everyone but ourselves for our own troubles? We've been living in an independent Ukraine for 13 years. It would seem that they had reached the age - old dream of being free hosts in a sovereign state. Meanwhile, from our home for nearly 13 years, their and their innkeepers comb and carry them all together, to the baby carriage. But we, masters, cry out at the gates, "Save us, we are being robbed!" So who's to blame? "The only state," writes familiar filmmaker Yuri Ilyenko, "who doesn't have his own information space, is Ukraine. Excuse me, who's to blame? Where, after all, is the owner of the house? In the eyes of a crazy world, spitting on all the rules and regulations behind us are essentially stolen by the Chrystal, and who's to blame? We're here in the Supreme Council for an unfortunate group, and most of the workers of this giant and their men have collected signatures for privatization. If this is confirmed, it is time to call things your names. I'm already hearing from the bottom that we're doing. The people, they said, were desperate. In response, the desperate people of Argentina took to the streets and changed several presidents in a few days until they reached them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u11	Thank you, Boris Illich. Have a seat, please. Yes, the word for the workman is Javorowski. Instead of Shershun getting ready for Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u12	Dear Parliamentarians! Dear voters! One of the best prime ministers of Britain, Israel, who had elected this post several times, once said, "No government can be considered a real government in a safe place where there is no influential opposition." The same man said another beautiful phrase when he was elected prime minister, "I climbed the top of a beloved pole." He knew what he was doing and how he was doing. I want to say that there is finally a unique government among the multitudes of our temporary governments. This has never happened before, and I think there is no such government in Ukraine. Imagine what would be said today in the world if the German government suddenly found 7 billion dollars in the middle of the year that were just rolling around, nowhere to be found, and suddenly it finds them. But everyone would carry such a prime minister on their hands. What you're messing with Yanukovich, I can't understand the opposition, first of all. The man found the money. And look how he got them back. Of course, he did find the help of the opposition that led him to do so. This is what I meant by Israel. So look before this money is distributed. I'll remind you again. The 57th article is frozen, so Ukrainian science will be killed, education killed to the end. And I can say today that our children, the schoolchildren of today, will have to do the kidnapping of hats, so there will be no more learning. Our teachers won't get a penny of money. For the savings that our pensioners are awaiting today, no amount of government has been allocated. The pitiful 50 bucks of ransom money we're throwing to our pensioners today. Privatization is completely out of budget; it will not be controlled. What about privatization, you see it in "Crucials." Moreover, suddenly a billion is being thrown out to strengthen our militia. What police? The ones that are actually associated with the bandits today? I just want to say, Tuesday, we're going to give you a presentation, the first version of the monument to the unknown bandit that we're preparing, he's ready, and we're going to put him on display in Mukachev. Take a look and support this monument. The government decides to raise the minimum wage by 237 out of 1 September. I say, "Hey, guys, why are you working so hard there since September 1st?" Since November 1st, after the election, you'll all be fine. Because of that, I'll say it again. It's like there's some money for science, and in fact, this money goes to pave the way in Feofania for our victuals. And the last. Bookkeeping, most painful. How much has this been said? I understand very well that in Ukraine there are no books that would have been written in the dialect of Azarov if such books had been published by Azarov. But what. I'm starting to think that there was simply no library in the crematory colony, because of this attitude toward literature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u13	The word is given by the national deputy Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u14	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Kalinczuk, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine I'd like to ask you two questions. First. A few years have passed since the element that took place in the northern regions of the Odessa region and in a number of other areas broke out of the radio system, which is the main one, but to this day the lines of conductive radio communication have not been repaired. Tens of thousands of citizens have been left without information in the state and at the local level. On my repeated appeals to various government agencies, the National Security Council was not able to find a positive solution. Motivation is to restore the uncomfortably economically. So, he said, relays would be built for wireless radio communication. Buy radios and use them. The question is, does a pensioner with a small pension benefit from buying radios? Who will answer that question? How about running the Crutch or a proper state committee? The second question. We are on the eve of a great event. The year 2005 marks the 60th anniversary of the victory day of the Great Homeland War. The whole world is about to mark this bright day. In our country, the President's decree provides certain measures to provide appropriate assistance to war veterans, members of the war effort. They're already quite old in most of their sick people, and they need to have their phones set up first in order to get help at the hospital at the right time, to the field office. Again, to my appeal to this question to the district management of the "Small" answer, the questions are not resolved by people who are left without a telephone connection, especially in the rural area. The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine calls on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to consider these problems and make appropriate positive decisions. Please consider my speech as a request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this speech is over. Time's up. How Can I Help You? 3 / 8 3 I hereby declare his request to be answered by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Tobacco. This is about the 1121 Johno-Frankow Military Hospital. The answer says that the decision to reform this hospital is made in accordance with the National Reform and Development Programme of the Armed Forces. Today, the provision of medical care to military personnel, veterans of the military service of Ivano-Franco garrison is being carried out by lyclinics, and the central military clinic in the city of Lviv and the military hospital in the city of Chernivci. For the purpose of preserving the city of Ivano-Frankiv, a specialized medical institution for disabled and veterans of the Great War of the Ministry of Defence, there is no objection to the establishment in the city of a civilian medical institution for the listed category of citizens after the decision to transfer part of the buildings of the 1121 military hospital to the area of administration of local authorities as a separate whole property complex. The national MP is not satisfied with this answer and intends to comment on it, to speak. Please, three minutes. It's from Melniczuk's place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u16	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to address Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic from the high court of parliament. I, Melniczuk, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. While in Ivano-Frankivsk, I had a meeting with the leaders of the veteran regional organizations who came to me about the closure of the hospital. I turned to Viktor Fedorovich, not because he felt that he should react in a different way, but because he thought that he would pay attention to my appeal. And I emphasized that the elderly, the veterans, the Great Homeland War participants of the 70-80 years have to go from Ivano-Frankivsk to Lviv, to the Cherniv people when they're getting out of the hospital 200 medical workers, while the hospital is already working, it has everything to do with being reclassified to the district hospital for the veterans of the Great Homeland War, for the military. I asked that question. But Mr. Smoker understood otherwise. Did he send me back to my uncle's in Kiev behind his mouth or what else is he like? I don't know if they even understand what they're doing or not. With those who fought, blood was shed for the land of Ukraine. Mr. Tobacco, I'd like you to be at that age a young man who came from Ivano-Frankivsky to visit a hospital in Chernivka or Lviv, and then you'll know how to send veterans. I refer to Viktor Fedorovich again and again make a parliamentary request on this matter. Do everything you can to save and re-profile the hospital, as you wrote in the campaign to celebrate the 60-year liberation of Ukrainian land from fascist invaders, to re-prove the district hospital and not send people from Johno-Frankivsky to other areas, because there is good reason for doing so in Johno-Frankivsky. I draw the attention of all Ukrainian citizens, the law enforcement authorities. Look at what's going on in Ivano-Frankish. I've just been informed that in the Valley area in the village of Yavorov, people have blocked oil exports that do not meet the terms of the deal between peasants, the community of villages and the Skrnaftegaza. Look, please, I'd like to get Mr. Embroidery's attention so he can see what's going on in his area. And my statement is again my request to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, because I am not satisfied with the answer I received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u17	Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The list of questions we have is considered, accepted, and you have them. Please, Masterpiece, but I'm going to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u18	The "Regions" faction, Vladimir Masterskin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question: What did we do with the Supreme Council's Rules on record? Today's procedure. I'm coming today and I'm writing down six, so I don't fall for it. And why are we today, 400 deputies, listening to the same? Today, all six laws contain Karmazin, Solomon, and the Hare. I have a question: if the faction is whether there's a "Ukraine" or a faction of Communists, it's determined that Carmazin represents the faction of "Our Ukraine" on the whole, then let it speak. Suggestion: I am addressing Valentin Grigorovich Matviev today, clearly in paragraph 3.3. 8 is written that any faction has the right to speak with any question. Suggestion: Write down each faction first and then after the record. And each faction will be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Put your hands down and read the Rules. That's the first one. Others, others. Dear colleagues, don't be lazy to register on time. Take the example of Karmazin, who is constantly in line. That's how you want to sit there and wait for your word. We need to get in on time, and everything's gonna be fine. So, let's go to the question of how to get into the day-to-day order and take decisions on the draft Law on Competitive Principles in the process of privatization of shares, particles, pies belonging to the state of property of legal persons. Registration number 5584. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda and consideration today. [[10:43:45]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Semenyuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill, which has been filed, has literally been registered a few months ago. All laws relating to privatization have been passed by members of the Special Monitoring Commission and the Economic Commission for Europe since last year. This document, which is being submitted today, is actually a law that is destroying, I would say, not only the current legislation on privatization to the worst, but also the most important, has not yet passed the expertise. So let's be consistent: those documents that are waiting, we're going to look at those that are included in the agenda, and this is the general procedure, through the Conciliation Council, through the conclusions of the committees, and then we're going to look at them. In this way, as they try to push it on Friday quickly, it is impossible to accept it. It's going to be "Creebrisstal" in a bunch, just for all of the objects in the "E" group. You can't look at it. And Adam Ivanovich, don't violate the Rules, don't vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u21	Yes, please, Sasha's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u22	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I ask you to put that question to the vote again, because our faction has practically failed. You can check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u23	Yes, dear fellows, be careful. I will now put to the vote the proposal to return to the consideration of this issue. Please vote. [[10:45:57]] For 237 Decision taken. I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft law on the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatization of shares, particles, pies belonging to the state of property of legal persons. This is registration number 5584. Please vote. [[10:46:32]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's move on to the bill. The word is given by the national deputy Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u24	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u25	Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, this bill, sponsored by Nadrag Vasili Ivanovich, Matvienkov and Aleshin. [[“Soyuz”]] [[Deputies Group “Regions”]] [[Our Ukraine faction]] What's the point of the three authors getting together and coming out with a single bill? The bottom line is that this bill does not contain or mention any particular enterprise that should be privatized in any way. The law envisages a systematic solution to the problem. The systemality of the decision envisaged by the bill is one: the preferred right of anyone to buy the public part in the event of the privatization of enterprises is removed. The bill envisages and proposes a single mechanism: all state-owned pies that are privatized should only go in an open, competitive manner. It is the competition that the bill entails, for all, without exception. The latter would like to add: we believe that this bill will help to significantly increase the amount of income in the budget from privatization and will make it possible for buyers to address the social, economic, not only the enterprises that are privatizing, but also the regions in which these enterprises are located.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u27	Thank you for saving the time. The questions will come to you, Vasil Ivanovich. There's a question. Yes. Yes, please, now. I see three hands. Is it gone? No, not anymore. Then write it down. Yes, please light up for five minutes. Kostinuk. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u28	Dear reporter! The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine" Bogdan Kostinjuk. In the event of an enterprise privatisation competition, the Ukrainian State Property Fund is entrusted with the authority to establish the qualifications of buyers, but there are some contradictions and abuses of the issue. What do you think? Could you describe at least an approximate list of such qualifications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I'd like to say it might be a basic message to answer. First. Regrettably or to someone's joy - in this case it is not important - but the process of privatization in the State is under way. And if we don't order it today, if we don't make it public, so to speak, we leave the base or the area for abuse. And when the bill is envisaged today, it means, for example, when I'm talking about priorities. the priority of one or the other. I said that the privatization of public rations today is not only on the terms and conditions assumed by the Housing Fund, but also on the terms and conditions set out in the statutes of a particular enterprise. We propose that this topic be removed and made the only condition is public competition. That is, only the one who has publicly applied and whose privatization programme is publicly the best. All others, well, I would say so, not entirely public regulatory documents or other private provisions in the statutes of the same enterprises will be absent, there will be uniform conditions that will be made public and will be conducted publicly through the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u30	Please, Samantha. After him, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u31	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Vasily Ivanovich, it's very beautiful that you have written "competitive principles in the process of privatization." You could not explain in such a public way that, in a civil bourgeois society, competing ambushes differ from the publicity that was in our socialist society so that our radio audiences can first understand where they came in 13 years of independence and in what way, based on the so-called publicity bourgeois, they continue to be fooled, including by your submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I don't think I'm a philosopher, so I can't think about bourgeoisy and everything. I was talking about what I was talking about. To the great regret or to some joy, it is not important, but today our economy is undergoing a process of privatization. As he goes, we talk to you here all the time, and we always hear when we meet with our constituents. Therefore, three legislators, three deputies from the Alliance's MP group, from the “Region” faction and from the “Our Ukraine” faction, joined together and wrote the only document in which we said that there was no need for any form of privatization other than a public competition. All participants in privatization must obtain and respond to the terms of the competition publicly. And once we have an answer, whose proposals are better, we will be able to determine who will be better and more effective in using both the enterprise itself and the most interesting and important thing that I have called it here, we are talking about that this will enable and obtain additional resources into the budget, because there will be no abuse. All the money will have to be given out in public because the contest is going to be held by whom, at least it won't make sense. Because the contest goes on and the results are officially filed. And secondly, we believe that it is within such a competition that we can ask the question, and it will be necessary to question the same social sphere of the regions where the enterprise is located and, so to say, affects the region in an appropriate manner, to draw attention to social, housing issues, and to ensure that the privatizer not only receives the package but then says before the visit, but also clearly understands that if there is no issue of social and housing issues in its competitive proposals, it has every chance of staying on board. We believe that this is fair and fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u33	Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u34	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Trudova Ukraine. Vasil Ivanovich, I'm going to ask you a question in such a clear sense that there must be for the entire auditorium, and especially for those factions that may or may not have figured out the substance of the bill, or the content of the bill itself, and they've been aspiring to vote against inclusion in the agenda. Tell me, please, is it a bad practice when an official, by reason of his own considerations, was passing on a state share of a company or a factory, like Zaporoztal, to some private entrepreneur 20-27 percent of the shares, does this bill break this scheme? That's the first question. And to what extent will your bill contribute to the elimination of the bad practice of embezzlement?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u35	Thank you for your support. I want to say the most important thing. We're here too often to talk to you about privatization, its violations and everything. I would like to reiterate, and here is the absolute right of my colleague Suhay, who said that the proposal under which the bill was drafted implies that the regulatory bases used today by some of the officials in order to address specific issues of specific privatization, the bill is withdrawn, because the only way of privatization that remains is by itself independent of the official or from what these officials have written in the statute of business and everything else. The only way is through public privatization, a formal competition, formal conditions, formal proposals and formalization. Who offers more money to the State budget because the money from privatization goes to Gosbudget, who assumes better production options, who assumes better options or takes into account options for social and social development in the region and, accordingly, because this will be done openly, we can ask the question that this bill implies more fair, more open privatization rules. Once again, whether we like it or not, privatization is going on. The authors propose that this privatization be made as open as possible, understood not only by those in the process but also by those living in that State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u36	Thank you. Have a seat, please. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In order to understand the complexity of the issues proposed in the bill on the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatization of shares owned by a state in the property of legal persons, I consider it appropriate to give a general description of the current state of affairs in the field of governance of state corporate rights in statutory funds of economic societies. At the beginning of 2004, the state sector of the economy included some 2,600 state-owned enterprises, more than 1,500 households, with a large majority of which are present state-owned corporate rights in statutory open stock holdings, about a hundred in statutory funds of limited liability societies. In addition, government stocks of 306 open shareholders are transferred to the statutory fund of state shareholders and holding companies. Regrettably, it is not possible to really assess the number of companies listed under the proposed bill. That is, the group's privatizations are and are monopolistic in Ukraine's markets are strategically important for Ukraine's economy, have tax liabilities to the budget and state-owned trust funds. It should be noted that as of January 1, 2004, 224 strategically important enterprises, or monopolistic enterprises, were in the process of privatization. The following can be noted when there are fundamental differences in the assessment in the public property management system. The public sector is currently not properly organized in the spheres of governance, nor in terms of their availability in the single state register of enterprises and organizations. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a law, a draft law on the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatization of shares owned by the State by legal persons on the basis of second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u38	Thank you. Do you have a wish? Please sign up, three minutes. Can you give me three minutes, please? Gorgeous, he's been followed by Hellhound. No, Vladimir Anatolyevich, three minutes, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u39	Please give the floor to Deputy Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u40	Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u41	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear reporter, this is the previous main speaker, a very respectful man, but he claimed that the public contest was a panacea of all hardships. Let's think about it together. Quite recently, the competition was privatized, sold to Crevystall, sold for four billion. Everyone's happy about it. In fact, experts say that the price of "Criminals" is about twice as high. They say they sold it to a Ukrainian buyer. In fact, this buyer basically can resell in tomorrow. The price of this "Criminal." Where am I leading? This is the same question that I asked the previous reporter how to detail at least an approximate list of qualifications in this law, that can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. We have examples of contests that can really serve as models. And so there are competitions that need to be drawn and better organized. The most important thing is publicity. Today, the legislative field gives priority to determining the terms of the competition to the Government, the Cabinet of Ministers. But to make this process more objective, more transparent, everything depends on us sitting here. We must ensure that the Cabinet of Ministers and the holding fund are under our control. And to define here, right now in the law, the specific conditions of this competition are simply not going to be possible. The main thing is publicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u43	Please, Hellfire.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u44	Peklushenko, "Regions" faction, Zaporozhye district. We have considered the draft of your law on a faction and we generally approve of it. We believe that less is the State in production and in business, for better production, for business and for the State. At the same time, you cannot remove your finger from the control button of these processes. And your law in the future provides for agreement between three whales, such as the Ministry of Economics, such as the Homemaine Foundation and Gossreserve? It is these three institutions that must manage the public sector of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. The issue of privatization has never been raised in our committee. Privatization is under way. And we have in the draft Privatization Programme the end of this process of great and serious for our country in 2008. The economy must have either a government 100 per cent enterprise or a private one. Don't mix. Once there are shares, shares belonging to the State in private enterprises, in equity societies, that is, a prerequisite for abuse and can always be manipulated. So, of course, until privatization is complete, we will have violations. It's like a classic: if there's money, that means they're going to be machinations, so there's going to be violations. But it is our task, and this bill is meant to do so. In order to ensure that the State does not break up as quickly as possible, but sells very favourably for us, in order to budget those parts that it is unable to determine the strategy of industrial enterprises, the tactics of their behaviour. I mean, there's five percent and ten, and twenty-five. You know very well that today, even 51 percent is not the package that manages and is not the control package. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u46	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion, 15 minutes. Please, Karmazin, follow Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u47	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! What's happening today with privatization in the state, when everything is privatized, whatever the oligarhams want, and what's happening with respect for corporate rights in the state, is absolutely unbiased. Imagine that our nation is a member of 1479 different corporate and legal societies. The holding fund and this regional department should manage corporate rights in 1318 open and closed stock companies, 19 NACach and DHC. We have 100 percent of the state in Dniprohydrogenergo, we have Vinnicaoblanergo, Westergo 70, Donbasenergo 85, Centrenerego and so on. And you see the influence of the state? You can't see. We're on the verge of being able to sort this out completely without all the competitions. According to a version of the minister, so-called today, Minister of Industry Neustroyev, because you've heard that he was here talking about "Cruvoristal," and it turns out that "Cruvoristal" doesn't have any strategic significance for the economy of Ukraine. Thus, the law proposes that a list of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and security of the state be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This government cannot be trusted. I am sure that this list should be determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because according to their version, neither the Crevices, nor the Shrines, nor the Odessa porters have any strategic significance for the state. Therefore, the bill needs to be considered, but it needs to be worked out. He needs, in my opinion, legal work. Because here, let's say the title, "Acts of legislation on the privatization of acts belonging to the State." And it goes on to say, "...it's made up of the Constitution, international treaties.'--and so on. Are these acts of privatization? Ladies and gentlemen, we must take everything under the transparent control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. And people, Ukrainian citizens, have to understand that in the presidential elections we have no right to implement corporate shares of state rights, to the presidential elections, I stress, because now they just want to take away the oligarchy clans.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Solomon. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u49	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, how do you feel when your grandmother, as a young woman, puts makeup on the prowl? She needs to prepare for the coffin, and she still dreams of a young lover. Similarly, the modern - day Ukrainian bourgeoisie seeks wrinkles that cannot be corrected, make makeup, and become attractive to a common, average citizen. Listen to what we're talking about: like fair competitions, transparent competitions, if we have a bourgeois civil society, I emphasize: bourgeois civil society. If anyone's dreaming about it. He said he would use his rights as a Ukrainian citizen. These dreams are unfounded. Only those who have money bullets have rights. All the others are illegal and civil rights they only have as a record in the Constitution and as a passport entry. So when it comes to fair, transparent privatisation competitions over and over again, it's, you know, how do I think we can define everything? When they're together and someone's dreaming and someone's offering something, and the result is, "and Vaska listens to it." And the example of "Cruisers" showed us that. We're going to have some lawyers here teaching, and we're going to have branches of authority allocated to the executive, the legislative and the court. We have to go to court in case of violations. And I'm going to remind you of the famous movie of Soviet times. "Let our unjust bourgeois judgment live." No, he doesn't have to live, because it's here in this court that there's going to be an endless burden, bribes and other sad cases when. The notion of civil society is pervasive at all, but for a bourgeois civil society, it's commonplace. So it's clear that our faction, the faction of Communists, is this bourgeois bill, which aims to improve the relationship between the new Ukrainian bourgeoisie and the ordinary Ukrainian citizen, is not going to get anything out of it. Perhaps a few million dollars of revenue will go up to the State Budget when a project is privatized. But they're going to take 10 times as much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u50	The word has the national MP of Seminog. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u51	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! There is no denying in our people that the process of privatization is called acceptance. Indeed, what was possible in our country, was stolen, sold for nothing, and today’s bill tells us that there is a great desire for those objects that remain, to stretch out, to distribute, to take into the state and nation. And especially the cynical privatization of the Civoristals says that it is not possible to continue this privatization. The aim of the project was to define a special arrangement for the privatization of shares in the statutory fund of enterprises, associations and other legal persons, which, according to the Ukrainian Act "On the State Privatisation Programme by 2002" have been referred to as "E" privatization objects. What are these objects? These are businesses that hold a monopoly on Ukraine's market; enterprises that are strategically important for Ukraine's economy and businesses that have tax debt to budgets and state-owned trust funds. It's about privatization of industrial giants. Instead, the bill consists of only two pages, and only two articles are devoted to privatization. That is, privatization takes place through the sale of a single package of shares, and decisions on privatization are taken by the Ukrainian State Property Fund. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a bill by the People's Deputy of Seminyuk, which in general proposes to prohibit the privatization of strategically important enterprises. The project aims, for example, to establish a set of requirements that can be set up by the State Property Fund of Ukraine as a qualified buyer of state property. It is not determined how to sell privatization objects if the competition did not take place or its winner refused to make a contract. We propose to reject this bill and, in general, to the presidential elections, to introduce a moratorium on privatization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, the word has the national deputy Suhi, to prepare the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the pervasive Ukrainian Act on Privatization of State Property, was passed in early 1992. And let me remind you one more thing. He wrote and accepted the goal of creating not only a multi-computing economy but also a socially oriented market economy in Ukraine. Since then, market transformation processes have evolved dynamically, but we cannot be satisfied with the measure of implementation of the task of creating a socially oriented market economy. And the main reason for the alienation of state property for the benefit of natural and legal persons was not always accompanied by an increase in socio-economic efficiency of production and the contribution of funds to the structural reconstruction of Ukraine's economy. [[It's a fact that's been proved in this room more than once.]] I don't want to or will not call the names of the Ukrainian national MPs who are not here, who, at the hands of government officials, received a packet of rations from state-owned industrial enterprises, left behind bitter memories and complaints. I'm not calling because I was raised differently from you. Not on a dental job, but on a constructive job. It should be welcomed, therefore, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine finally dared to break the destructive practice of embezzlement. It may be said that the need for adoption of the bill is long overdue. Moreover, it is about the characteristics of the privatization of E - group objects that are either monopolistic or strategically critical of state importance. How positive it should be noted that this plan provides for clear and transparent controls on the part of Kabmin, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the State Securities Committee or the Antimonopoly Committee, and can be supported by the proposal made here by a colleague of Carmazin and can also write out the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And one more thing. I'd like to ask, let's not be political here, but, more importantly, be wicked. Listen, what's an interesting suggestion: Privatization has to stop at the presidential election. And after the presidential election, all of this goes on. Well, that's ridiculous. The bill should be adopted, at least because it creates the right conditions for the privatization of shares, particles and pies owned by the State in the possession of legal persons and has tax liabilities to budgets and state-owned trust funds. I propose a bill number 5584 to be adopted in the first reading and further elaborated, because its individual positions must be in line with the requirements of the Civil Code, the Economic Code, and have some inaccuracies from a technical legal point of view. The Labour Ukraine MP will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u54	Please, the people's representative of the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u55	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the bill tabled for our discussion by the People's Deputies of Nadrag, Matvienkov, Aloshin. And I think you can accept it in the first reading, but only in the first reading. The bill proposes to establish a universal regime for the privatization of shares. a piece of pie that belongs to the state in the possession of legal persons. What kind of objects are we talking about? About enterprises that are related to the ‘ Ye’ privatization’ group and that are monopolistic in Ukraine’s markets or that are strategic for Ukraine’s economy, they have tax liabilities to budgets and state-owned trust funds. Under the current legislation, the privatization of shares of such enterprises takes place not only under the conditions established by the State Property Fund but also under the statutory documents of these enterprises. This suggests that privatization be done through a competition, or the same conditions for all. How can this bill be improved in a second reading? A key issue here is the list of strategically important enterprises. So I propose a list of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state to approve the Supreme Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers, as proposed in paragraph two of article one. The point is that we need to consider this issue at all. Can you please tell me that sugar factories are strategic for Ukraine or not? Strategic. But we don't include them, we give them to someone else's capital, they destroy sugar factories, they destroy agriculture. So this list needs to be approved by the Supreme Council, and we've been looking at it. The other one. The law, since it is a matter of privatizing strategically important objects, should clearly spell out the procedure for determining the conditions of privatization in detail, the responsibility for non-compliance. Think of the privatization of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant. There was a proposal to build an aluminum production plant that was important to us, a state that produced airplanes and other machinery. This condition has not been met, and the state has rewrote it to others. What's a free woman like that? There is no defence of Ukraine’s national interests. Thus, such a procedure should be clearly defined. And people have to answer on these terms. Third. If we're talking about privatization of shares, which is the secondary market, and we're talking about enterprises that's strategically important, so we have to follow up on this process. These enterprises cannot resell to foreign capital and destroy the economy. So here we have to write much better than we have these things. So this bill needs to be improved, of course. But in the first reading, it should be accepted. The issue of special privatization of these strategic objects should be written down and committed to the hands of the Supreme Council. If that's not the case, we'll go back on the illegal path, the mafia route, and these businesses will end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u56	The discussion is over. Please insist on the head of the Semenyuk Special Control Commission. Please, three minutes, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u57	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill submitted on June 2nd is being considered today even without the conclusion of the Special Monitoring Commission. That's why there's a violation and there's such a rapid push. I want to address the opposition. You and I have all declared that it is impossible today to privatize strategic targets, yet we must impose a moratorium and find out what we have already privatized, what remains, and what remains to be continued. You and I in this session room had a few weeks ago considered the law on the features of the privatisation of Ukratnafta. It is this law that is going to be privatized, which will allow the last object to be privatized through individual suitable pies. So we're going to legitimize the last factory, where there was a government share, if we could influence this enterprise, it would be committed. But what's important is that it's against the Privatization Act, because there are new conditions, so-called qualification requirements, which are not a legal document and are not an appropriate endorsement. Moreover, these qualifications will again be made by the State Property Fund, not as a legal act, but as a separate protocol commission. This means that yesterday we did not allow a “Criminal” contest to be held. This will be done in a much scarier way. Third, I would very much like to turn to you. Mr. Suhi spoke here about the 1992 legislation. Dear Mr. Suhi, the Law on Privatization of State Property was adopted in 1997, and it provides for conditions of competition and appropriate normative documents. One thing is that we've adopted a privatization program in 2000 and so far we haven't developed any sub-legislative instruments to make it transparent, and I think I'll do it in the holding fund's report. But now everything is being done so that these sub-legal acts are not introduced, which should be duly noted, but made as qualification commissions. Not only does this law not correspond to privatization legislation, but it is harmful for all joint ventures with shares of property to be written under all the qualifications, and there will be no transparency in this regard. On this point, we have already spoken to the special review committee. Today, what was done by the Holden Foundation? There are 10-15-20 shares left in each company. And it's done for later. There is no relevant requirement here that there will be qualifications specified by law or written by the Maintenance Fund. They will not be duly written because it does not correspond to either the law on privatization or the Code of Lords. [[Articles 7 and 12]] [[Article 79]] It's actually new.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Darling, get out of the way. And then Suhi's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! The question is as follows. I would like to turn to the two points that have been heard here from the opponents who are proposing that the bill should not be approved. First, it does not comply with existing legislation. Respected opponents, whether you have proved or not, and constantly, including blocking this rostrum, that existing legislation is not effective, do not allow for open and honest privatization. No one says privatization is necessary. But if it goes, let's make it civilized, make it clear who, on what conditions, will buy these pies. And when they sound here. Even more so, more so, I'm not afraid of this statement, of someone playing bourgeoisies, and I want to say: yes, the authors want to make it clear how privatization is going. Anyone who doesn't want to do that is playing tricks on those crooks who quietly privatize businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u60	Yes, please, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw the attention of the head of the Special Privatisation Commission that the Law on Privatisation of State Property was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 March 1992, and on 19 February 1997 the Act on the Amendment of the Law on Privatisation of State Enterprises was adopted. Perhaps that is why you also have porridge in your thinking and agitation that you did not understand what law you are governed by to this day. In general, pay attention. I didn't call anyone's last name or name. And you don't call me mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u62	Yes. In connection with what? Dear colleagues, I'm telling you the rule: Replication is exchanged once. The person who called someone has the right to reply. The answer is no longer the reply. That's the first one. The other one. For the reasons of the vote, please, Alohin. And Matvienkov. And we'll vote. Aloshin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some excuses regarding the speech of my colleague Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. The point is that the law cannot be considered exclusively in the context of a particular situation, perhaps around a specific object. The point is that the existing standards of the current Privatisation Programme create certain, say, priority conditions according to statutory documents of the companies. Now, in order to avoid these high-priority conditions, you have to accept the standard conditions for everyone. Because when someone has priority under the statute, it is said that these priorities can be used exclusively against the interests of the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u64	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u65	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear friends, I ask you, first of all, to calm down and answer the question: What do we have today, using the public share of property in a thousand 600 equity societies? How do we use them today? What is the effectiveness of their use? What happens to them then? Why are they disappearing like sand today? What have we got so far? When the public share of the issue is washed away, when there is a purchase of priceless packages, the fragmentation takes place in the state share of property, and then in the part of the price purchase, the sale outside the contests, it all creates conditions under which we cannot today clearly answer that, indeed, we do have a state share of property. This law places a cross on all of this and really creates a normal transparent system. Therefore, I propose that a fellow MP adopt this law as a whole in order for him to put an end to the processes that are taking place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the motives have already been made. Now I see more hands. This may go on indefinitely, and so on. The rules are long overdue. Let's move on. The frost with motivation and no one else raises your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u67	Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! It is only that this law goes at a pace that no bill of 14 years of work of the Supreme Council has known should lead to some reflection. What transparency in privatization, which our colleagues here are stressing, were involved with, as it were, with the last word. This transparency is going to be as accurate as it was in privatizing the Chrysalis. But today there is still an opportunity, using the law on joint ventures, for the general law on privatization to maintain control over state-owned property. We have to pass a law on government property management, it's been thrown out of the session hall for years, and it's written here in two weeks only for specific benefits for specific people, and let's vote right now. That is certainly the question. You read the expert board's conclusions! This law must be worked out, including in the commission, and then in the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u68	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. The draft law on the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatising shares of stakes owned by a state in the possession of legal persons is on the vote. Registration number 5584. [[11:29:44]] For 246 The bill was passed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 2, "Regions of Ukraine" - 62, communists - 0, Social Democrats - 39, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 29, Labour Ukraine - 28, People's Agricultural Party - 21, Socialists - 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 6, Union - 17, NDP, Industrial and Business Party - 16, Center - 14, Postfraction - 12. There were suggestions to accept it in general as a law. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:30:37]] For 235 The law was passed in general. The factions. Our Ukraine - 0, Ukraine - 60, Communist - 0, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party - 39, Labour Ukraine - 29, SPU - 0, Timoshenko - 0, Center - 14, Union - 17, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 29, NDP and PPU - 16, People's Agrarian Party - 21, Postfaction - 10. [[united]] Please log in, three minutes. It's not a procedure, it's a vote. Light up, please. Kenzier, follow by Rodionov. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u69	I ask you to pass the word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u70	Please, Rabbit microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u71	Ivan the hare. Adam Ivanovich. You had no right, you violated the Constitution and you violated our Rules when you put in place to vote on this bill as a whole. You know that there were objections not only to shouts in the hall, but I spoke on this platform and said that this bill could only be adopted in the first reading and with those discussions, so that the list of strategic objects could be approved by the Supreme Council. You ignored those words and did, I'd say, a criminal act. You took a bill today that allows the Mafia to steal state property today. I protest, I think this decision is invalid, and I ask you not to sign this decree after this Act has been passed. Adam Ivanovich, this is not to be done. I don't know what your motives were when you put the second time to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u72	Please, Rodionov, follow him Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u73	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give the word to a comrade in the Solomatin faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u74	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, you and I are witnessing two parts of the hall being accused of being in, because it is not right in this wrong act. Look, you didn't vote in favour of this Communist project, and it's clear that this is our consistent and principled position in such a dirty case. But neither did the bourgeoisie like the Presidential majority, Our Ukraine, the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Don't you think it's here that disputes resemble the same story as the saying of the people: "The thief stole the oak, but he didn't make it." Therefore, honorably continue to boast, but your cause is unfavorable, and the people do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u76	Please, Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u78	Please, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u79	Lucenko, Socialist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, please take the draft ruling of the Supreme Council, which introduced the committee of Gurenk, your one-party, in which the first paragraph says, "Take as a basis", in the second paragraph, is proposed to refer the committee for further elaboration and introduction to the second reading. You have now violated not only the Rules themselves, despite the demands and MPs that have been made, the colleagues of the Hare and others, despite Semenyuk, but you have violated your own decree of the professional committee that reported this law. The other one. Just now, there was banditry in the hall. You have contributed, Adam Ivanovich, to this very bitter recognition. The agrarian party, at which Litwin called for an end to banditry in the form of privatization, voted in favour, was voted by some of our other colleagues here. We can't be so greedy without discussing it in the second reading without making amendments to such terrible things. Adam Ivanovich, you can really do it with your partying.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues. No one called you, no lines. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, there were various suggestions here. There was an offer by the Rabbit, but there were many more suggestions to accept it as a whole. One moment. The other one. The committee’s first deputy chairman, who spoke from this rostrum, said that the committee recommended that it be accepted as a whole. Third moment. The decision was made by the non - presiding officer, the decision being made by the national deputies. They gave up 235 votes for it. And this decision is made. With regard to the request of John the Rabbit that I do not sign the decree. He often refers to the Constitution. Let him read the Constitution. Under the Constitution, acts adopted by the Supreme Council are signed by the Head, the Head and only the Head of the Supreme Council. Let's move on to the question, draft Notariat Act, registration number 2338. The National MP of Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich reports. Victor Lavrentiovich, how long do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u81	I think five minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u82	Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u83	Honourable National Deputies, proposed by your consideration of the draft Ukrainian Notariat Act, aimed at establishing effective non-judicial protection and protection of the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, institutions, organizations, territorial communities and states. This law pursues the goal of completing the process of notary reform in Ukraine, introducing a single notary in line with the new economic, social needs of society. The bill consolidates the status of a notary as a public official, a legal professional, and introduces a new transparent order of preparation for and admission to notarial activity. The draft law deals with the self-governance of notaries, the determination of the principles of organization and notary activity, its self-financing, criteria for the establishment of notary districts, the border number of notaries, the order of substitution of notaries, and so on. Among other things, the new Civil Code, the new Family Code, and the Master Code have been carefully described. As for notarius client relationships, the physical person, the citizen, they have a clear social orientation and they meet the basic principles of notariate function. How it should function in a civilized society. The project also provides for the introduction of a single payment rate for all notaries throughout Ukraine. The size of the stakes is established by the State. It will control them and take into account the capacity of individuals, citizens, and benefits, as well as the exemption from payment of such or other notary services. The bill has positive reactions from the International Union of Latin Notaries, which brings together more than seventy nations in the world, among other things, we are preparing this bill and giving rise to the right to enter the Latin notary. The scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council also gave a positive response to this bill. I have to say that this bill has been the subject of a broad discussion of the creation of the environment of notaries in Ukraine, and hundreds of notaries have participated in the discussion of this bill. And we've got a lot of feedback, and they're also included in the pre-departure session of this bill. The committee is proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading, and I want to say to you, Your Honor, I ask you very much to take this matter seriously, because we have been trying for four years to create normal legal bases for notary activities. Moreover, they are not actually working in the legal field right now, because the old law does not meet the requirements of both the Civil Code and the Family Code, the household code, but they operate on the basis of regulations when the Constitution establishes that a notary must act on the basis of only the law. So I ask, please, for the first time reading, to adopt a bill, to allow it to be processed there for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please explain. A miner. After him, Hellhound.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u85	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich, of course, the need for a new law has matured. But I'd like to make myself clear. In recent times, notary offices have been used to legitimize many fraud gears for selling, handing, and so forth apartments, cars, and lands. Then some of these persons disappear and cannot find the truth. And I often face such situations in my work as a deputy. How does your bill protect a notary from the legalization of such criminal acts?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. The law clearly lays down both the rights and obligations of the notary. Its status becomes more clear from the point of view that it is entrusted with the de facto powers of the State's representative in this area, both to confirm the legal facts and to protect the rights of citizens. First, it's an opportunity to make more extensive use of different queries, documents before we verify, let's say, the same deal you're talking about is a right. It is a duty to study carefully all the documents that are presented, and all the circumstances that are called parties to this, let us say, agreement. There is also responsibility, foresight, clear responsibility for actions or illegal when. or when they allow in notarius, for example, negligence in their activities. It is also an extremely, well - assured guarantee that they will be more diligent in handling their responsibilities. Of course, you know, in any activity you can't absolutely guarantee that there won't be any abuse, but the consequences here are both civil law and administrative law and criminal law. So here the whole range of means of ensuring the normal activity of notaries in this area is in this law. It is he who fills these gaps, which are not in the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u87	Please, Hellcat, follow him Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u88	The "Regions" faction, Zaporozhye district, Pecklusenko. I know you as a professional, you can't propose a bad law, so we support you. All we care about is these aspects. First, they're notaries, they're becoming such a caste, a closed society, where it's very hard to get through. In this regard, whether your law provides for an increase in quality, because there are cases where there are queues. That's the first question. The second question is that the notary record is reliable, and everything is attached to the interest rate, depending on the amount, is probably not right either. And most of all, I and my fellow majors are constantly in the presence of my constituents, the poor citizens who are screaming. There's no way for grandma to find 300-400-500 bracelets. How will the question of addressing the interests of the socially vulnerable be addressed?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u89	First. Thank you for asking. Very important questions. First: about access to notary activity. Well, first of all, the guarantee of free access, all equal to notary activity. But there are, of course, conditions. Article 11 identifies who is a notary, who can be a notary. Well, you know, here's the question before that: an extremely responsible procedure is done by a notary. He needs to be a professional to be a responsible person. A complete set of normal access to this process is being set. And we can't, I think, lower the demands on a person who wants to be a notary. It must first be a person who has a higher education, has to be a specialist or a master, has five years of age, has to have legal practice, of them at least two years of internship or an assistant notary, and so on: she has to pass exams, she has a certificate to get, she has to be included in the register, then go to the competition and so on. As far as the districts are concerned. We've now established that there should be at least 20,000 to 5,000 -- that's the fork -- of citizens who can be served. And of course, the number of notaries can increase. What are you talking about? I was in Berlin recently. You know how much there is in a year of action: 250 total operations per notary. But they say they fake taxi drivers, notaries, because they don't. And we have a huge number, millions, 11 million, only actions, private notaries in the last year. And as for the second part, which is extremely important, where, you know, we had a lot of conversations at the committee meeting. We responded to them, to all these suggestions: And Sirenka Vasil Fedorovich, and other colleagues of ours, you talked about that. A bill has been drafted, as we said. It states that laws, not regulations, such as the Cabinet of Ministers, regulate fees for services. The law where these bets are set. You're right that these bets don't always just have to work. Three types of citizens, let's say they're getting lower rates or they're getting rid of these bets. I remember Olga Hinzburg saying that in the village, for example, when houses are inherited, money should be paid so that no one can even pay, not what is then owned. There is a tax exemption. from the payoff. And so on. All of this is provided for in a special law. As soon as the first reading comes through, I will immediately submit this bill as a bill to go in parallel with the Notaryate Act to ensure its normal functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u90	Victor Lavrentiovich, I ask you more quickly, because unfortunately, I have announced Ponomarenko. Please, Ponomarenko. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u91	Pomorenko, the faction of the Company. Victor Lavrentiovich, in the Income Act. The tax on the income of natural persons on notarial functions of agents, i.e. they are not counterfeiting as Berlin taxi drivers, but they are falsifying as tax agents. How is this reflected in your Notary Law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u92	So first of all, it's not in the law, and that's in the law that you're talking about. I have to tell you, during the discussion of the bill, all notaries were, in effect, extremely negative, because. And I don't think by nature a notary has the right even to perform such a function. [[Not what he can't, he has no right!]] He can't do that. Let's say when he's right-handed, he's making sure that he's still there, let's say, taking some taxes. He cannot and does not have the right to do so, so it is necessary to make changes to this law and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u93	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, we have here a draft decision on inadmissibility. By the authors, the national deputy of Petrov. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u94	Petrov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Viennese Region. In recent years, the confiscation law of judicial practice has become evident to citizens. The recently adopted Code of Civil Procedure contains a rule setting out information technology charges. This is a direct departmental confiscation of citizens' money in favour of the court. This is, apart from the budget, except for the fee, payment of lawyers, expertise and other payments. When 70 per cent of Ukrainian citizens consider each bracelet to be a poor person to pay even departmental fees, it is a disgrace, a disgrace to the legislative and regulatory systems. But most importantly, it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitution clearly violates articles 22 and 48 of the Ukrainian Constitution by confiscating money from citizens. This is clearly confiscated in terms of the Notary Act that we are considering today. First. The project completely eliminates the State notary, where the notary rate is clearly lower. For example, the authority of the property management of the private notary is 50-60 bracelets, the public 35 bracelets; the will of the private 60-80 bracelets, and the government 50 bracelets. This is very important for citizens. Thus, public notaries have a huge turn, and there are no private ones. In addition, there is a different level of legal responsibility for public and private notaries. The State has an obligation under article 56 of the Constitution to compensate by the State for losses caused by unlawful acts of public officials. Private notaries are reimbursed only for transfers of the compensation fund, which is clearly insufficient. The second aspect. The Notariat Act is an information collection for the commercial public enterprise Information Centre of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. This is a confiscation of citizens' money in favour of Minusto and his business structure, not even in favour of the Treasury or the budget. And, of course, the draft law is trying to legitimize the looting of citizens, the confiscation of money from citizens, which is now established by the Government and the Minusto. Conclusion. The draft law on notariat is conceptually contrary to articles 22.48, 19.56, 36 of the Ukrainian Constitution and must be rejected for “inadmissibility”. The Presence of Inadmissibility does not take away the draft law forever. If comments were taken into account, the draft would be brought into line with the Constitution, it could be returned for further consideration at the next session. However, the interests of Ukrainian citizens in this version of the draft notary law require the adoption of an “unacceptability” decree. I ask all deputies concerned about the interests of citizens, not bureaucrats, to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who among those who signed up insists on the talk? One, two, three, four, five. All right. 15 minutes, please. Carmazin, followed by Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u96	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the new law is strictly necessary because the 1993 law is physically, politically, out of date. Notaries today cannot be governed by the same law. Another question is how to improve it. This can be done during the second reading. I will ask you to adopt this law in the first reading. I would like to say that this law for the first time introduces the oath of notarius, article 31, the responsibility for it. For the first time, this law proposes a competition to register notary activity separately in each notary district as it should be in civilized countries. Nowhere and we never do that. Show me what contests are going on. Today, every position in the law enforcement agency costs money. I quoted from this rostrum the cost of one of the chiefs of the Tax Administration. I can tell you these bets in Kiev -- they're half a million dollars for one job in the area in the tax office. And no competition, and nothing to the state is all shadowy. And here's what we're going to do. The project sets quotas for the number of notaries in each notary district. The population served by the notary cannot be more than 20,000 and not less than 5,000. So the project also foresees novels that are clearly taken from the study of all the positive things that are already being done in the world. Like, for example, in article 73, establishing the true intentions of the parties to invest in the rightful cause. It's very important especially now that the land is given, not by appearance or contract, but by contract of use and so on, and then cheated people and written there for how many years and actually forever. And here, the venerable communists, you just took it and you say, let's talk about unacceptableness. And look how you've built this land now. But when we write this, it's going to be written in part two: the real purpose of each participant is to establish a notary of the same understanding by the parties of the meaning of the conditions of the right and its legal consequences for each party. We predict that this law provides for the responsibility of notaries, the order in which witnesses are involved for notary action, provides for benefits for all categories of benefits that cannot be paid for today. And that's why I think this law is much more progressive than the rest of them, than what it is right now. That's a lot of steps forward. Of course, there's a reference to science and science. I think we should count them, they don't really matter, at least about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's work without interruption. Please, Dry. Get ready for Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye city, the MP's faction of Trudova Ukraine. Dear colleagues. The dynamics of the socio-economic transformation of our society on market principles are demanding changes, and this is happening in this room, and these changes are also added to valid bills that are important. In particular, we are considering a bill that will be important for the provision of organizational and legal improvements to the complex phenomena that are taking place today in our society. This is true of issues that are certainly related to improving the legal regulation of notary activities in Ukraine, as systems of organs and officials that not only show rights and facts but do so in order to give them legal credibility. The bill of law on notariat is proposed in a new edition, and such a need is fully justified by the realities of today’s life as discussed in this rostrum, esteemed colleague Carmazin. And one more thing. The basic positions of such an editorial generally coincide with the suggestions that come to our address, including from Zaporozhye’s notary, which was just spoken of in this rostrum by respected colleague Viktor Lavrentiovich Musiak. Such legislative innovations are particularly agreed with the notaries of the cities of Ukraine, such as the qualifications for notary, the list of notarial actions, and the financing of activities. I want to ask here one question, not for discussion, but for reflection. Either the notary is self-funded or it'll be funded from the budget. And if we offer from the budget and take 2-3s for registration, we get a bad notary, and we get budget problems. A colleague named Gorenik loyally posed a problem of abuse. I think this new bill is going to put some kind of shadow on the way to such abuses. The bill proposes to be adopted in the first reading and proposes that the proposal be made to a professional committee, to include in its processing the assets of self-governing organizations of notaries, all the more so that there is a warning about the profitability of notarial activity. As for the quota of notaries, there is a warning that has been mentioned here. Why wouldn't the Notary Service Market determine the number of notaries, but would the officials of the Ministry of Justice determine? I think these things should be considered, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u99	Please, Onopenko, prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u100	Thank you. Basil Onopenko, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is not just a discussion of some formal law that is about an extremely important organ in our state of notariat. We do not hide that the adoption of this law in the first reading will eliminate a state notary that is not actually available in all countries. First of all, I would like to make an argument in favour of this notaryate law and its advantages. Today we have 1,332 government notaries in the country, and a private 2598 in the country. In fact, it's almost twice as much. By the number of actions undertaken by private notaries and government officials, some 3 million are government - owned in a year. 830 thousand, and private notaries 12 million, that is to say, the trend is actually reducing the activity of state notaries in the state. The point is that there's a lot. You see, a huge number of people are looking for solutions to civil and legal problems right in the notarial offices, because courts are much smaller -- about 2 million in a year. Civil cases are dealt with by courts. Now my colleague Petrov's speech about the inadmissibility of this law. Well, let's see, first of all, I'm addressing you, dear Communist colleagues, is it worth supporting this decision? What are the advantages of a private notary today? First of all, we're not going to spend about 40 million. Money to support the state notary every year. The private notary is self-financing. Next. Additional jobs are being created. Each private notary will have one or two helpers. This is a matter of full material responsibility. An unlimited private responsibility, a complete one. Today, a private notary answers within its pay. Now he's going to be responsible in full for this. With the adoption of the law, Ukraine joins the International Union of Latin Notariat, where 70 countries, and this is an open road to SOTA. So there are some advantages here. I don't think we need to block, that's all, the second-reading tariff law, where benefits will be provided for low-income families.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Rabbit, get ready for the Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u102	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Is there a problem with notary? There is. In Ukraine, there are basically two notary systems -- private and state systems. A single notary system is needed to correct the situation. In this case, the authors propose to approve a private one. The existence of two systems makes the notary system an injustice to both the notary office and the citizens who use it. So we need to look at this from both sides, from the public notary, and from the guarantees of citizens' rights. You have to admit that the state notary today is in a very unenviable position, the wages of notaries are meager -- 237-240 bracelets, there's an allowance of 50-60 bracelets -- and that's it. The responsibility is tremendous, the load is tremendous. Therefore, this system cannot work effectively in the service of citizens and cannot guarantee the rights of notaries themselves. With regard to citizens’ interests, the transition to a single notary office system poses a real threat to many citizens’ spending on notarial services. Under the current system, prices for many citizens will not be available. We need to keep this in mind and make a law that protects our citizens. To protect citizens, I propose that we move into a single system of notary offices to take preventive preventive measures. The first is the setting of border rates for notary services with the preservation of benefits for a particular category of disabled citizens, black people, in a number of pensioners. The second is to empower all officials who require copies of citizens' documents, well, copies of passports, pensioners' certificates, well, in the JEC and other organizations there, to testify to copies of such documents. Third, Minuste has to review the tariffs in the direction of a significant reduction, or even their differences in general, which determine the size of the pay for issuing a single register of prohibitions. For example, let me say the following. Who of you today doesn't know that in order to transform an inheritance into a home for a couple in a village, you have to pay 700 or 800 dollars. People don't have that kind of money. So I propose that, in order to form an inheritance for real estate, to provide for the possibility of exempting citizens from payment for the issuance of evidence of non-refoulement and other arrests, for the provision of tariff reductions in BTI for the issuance of extracts from the sole register of ownership rights for the reshaping of the inheritance by persons who live permanently in these houses and pensioners. A minor needs to work hard to make notarial service prices more equitable. We need to look very carefully at the President's decree on notary tariffs, it seems to be called, and set tariffs that allow people to access these services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u103	Please, there's a word for Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u104	Fast, socialist faction, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, the bill is, of course, a new and fundamentally revised version of the 1993 Notary Act. Along with the unquestionably positive ones, and they are now presented in my colleagues' speeches: this is the introduction of a bill structure in a more perfect way, the regulation of a single register of notaries and the definition of administrative districts of notarial activity, the introduction of laws in accordance with the new Civil Code, which we absolutely need. There's a low principle of new positions that are causing, as we know, a mixed reaction. Let me give you a few examples. First: moving notary activity into self-financing, which means that it will no longer be a state-owned notary office, which means increasing the cost of services. [[Article 10 of the Bill]] Under the current law, there are private notaries and state notary offices, and according to article 20 of the Act, state notary offices are held at the expense of the State Budget. It should be added that the experience of the Russian Federation on this issue is that public and private notaries work on parity principles. This is according to a new editorial of the Russian Federation's 203 notary. I think we should take that into account, too. Next. The project proposes to establish the duty of membership of all notaries in the Notary Chamber, which is also defined as their professional union, or unification of citizens. [[this article 54]] I would like to remind you that this system is also proposed in the bill on arbitral tribunals. But we need to understand what happened to our lawyer, when they were also taken into some kind of association, someone is taking the lead. So it doesn't have to be the same thing as the notary that. When someone can take under their wing all notaries and, of course, how they will exercise these rights. Next. Paragraph 2, part 1, article 35. The bill provides for a borderline age of 70 years as a notary. Without denying the idea as such, it should be noted that this situation is not in line with Ukrainian labour law and needs clarification from the drafting of the bill. And the last. From the list of notary actions that the Consular Institution has the right to do in the bill, somehow deleted the right to issue certificates of the right to an inheritance, and the right to issue certificates of ownership of a share in the common property, these are marriages. [[This article is article 65.]] This is not indicated by who should do so for Ukrainian citizens abroad. I think it's important to work out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us ask the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. One minute, please. Deputy Minister Jemelyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the accepted became a civil code and the Ukrainian Notary Act, which is now in force. He's 80 percent not responding to the new civil law at all. And second of all, I'd like to give you some arguments about the charges that were made here about the salaries that are taken for services in the use of those or other registers issued by the Ministry of Justice. At least on the subject of the Single Register of Wills and Inheritances. The registration fee for this register is 25 dollars. Dear National Deputies! 25 bracelets are not 700, not 800, which were called digits here. At the same time, I would like to say that this register also provides for a number of benefits free of charge from this register and the disabled of the Great Homeland War, the disabled of the first and second groups, the orphans affected by the Chernobyl disaster. With regard to other registers, registers such as prohibitions on the alienation of immovable property, help for the absence or presence of prohibitions cost 34 bracelets, while the cost of 34 bracelets of 17 copies to keep these registers. I want you to be aware that if we take out all the registers now, tomorrow we'll have a stop and notarial activity, that's the first. Oh, that's different. This burden will fall on the state budget. Is the State Budget now able to provide? It doesn't matter to the Justice Department. Or to provide a separate line of funding for these registers in the State Budget to exist, and first of all, not for the Ministry of Justice, but for our citizens who alienate the immovable property that forms an inheritance for their children. Or then we have to anticipate and pay off the average citizen. I ask, honourable national MPs, to support, please, in the first reading, and on the second reading, I think that these proposals that were echoed will be worked out. At the same time, I wanted to draw attention to some of the situations related to the risk of notary activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u107	Nina Ivanovna, I gave you a minute, you're three. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u108	I'm sorry. A little emotional, Adam Ivanovich. I want the Ministry of Justice, the National MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u109	You've made a pretty convincing statement. Now we're going to see the results of the vote. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. The first one will be the draft Order of the People’s Deputies of Sirenck and Petrov of the Inadmissibility. [[Registration number 2338-P1]] [[12:11:08]] For-56 It's a non-adopted decision. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the Notariat Act, registration number 2338. Please vote. [[12:11:38]] For 295 As you can see, Inna Ivanovna, you were persuasive. The Law was adopted in the first reading. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. I've already told you, we agreed to work without interruptions, dear colleagues. You probably didn't pay attention. The bill on the provision of evidence in cases dealt with by the authorities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, registration number 3640, is being complied with. Reported to the Vice-President of the Antimonopoly Committee of the Svetlana Mikhailna Moroz. Svetlana Mikhailnovna, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of evidence in matters under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. The project is designed to implement paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions and article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition with a view to making detailed arrangements for the removal of evidence in the possession of a natural and legal person. This bill does not give the Antimonopoly Committee any additional powers compared to those that are now enshrined in the laws, but merely provides for procedural regulation of existing ones. Article 44 of the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition, in part, of the examination and search of the possession of a natural person, is not valid until such time as the law which provides for the appropriate judicial procedures of these proceedings becomes effective. And that's the first thing that's going to solve these issues is a bill. In addition, many procedural issues remain unresolved today, providing evidence in cases that are being dealt with by the Antimonopoly Committee. And the practice gained today by the Antimonopoly Committee, as well as the experience of the world, shows that operators, such as cartels, do not make arrangements in formal contracts and contracts today, and these actions are done in secret. And in connection with such informal, covert oral arrangements, there is a problem in compiling evidence of the agreed competitive behaviour of operators. And the Antimonopoly Committee today does not have the necessary tools to gather such evidence. Thus, the draft law provides for a detailed regulation of the procedure for bringing a public official, the head of the territorial branch to court for the court to decide whether to enter the home or other possession of a person, whether to conduct a survey or a search. I would like to point out that in accordance with articles 13, 14, of the bill, a judge checks the grounds for such action. And if he finds such grounds groundless, he decides not to grant such permission, and this decision is final and is not an accusation. The bill provides for a procedure for the identification of oral explanations by the Antimonopoly Committee and for the identification of cases where such explanations are provided exclusively in court. The main scientific and expert office positively appreciated the bill, considered it relevant and important. The proposals made by the Scientific and Expert Office and the proposals made by the National Deputies, for example, regarding the inclusion of concepts in procedures, will necessarily be taken into account when rereading. I ask you to support the draft law on the provision of evidence in cases under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee authorities and to adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u111	Thank you, Svetlana Mikhailno. Have a seat, please. From the P.I.P.P.P.P.P.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u112	Honorable National MPs. The issue of legal regulation on the issue of the collection of assessment and the storage of evidence in matters of reconciliation, the concentration of economic operators in the protection of economic competition should be ensured by the bill on the provision of evidence in cases under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. The project that we're looking at today is registration number 3640. The draft law contains four chapters and consists of 23 articles. This bill amends articles 384, 385 of the Criminal Code on the submission to the courts of unreliable information to persons authorized by the Antimonopoly Committee or their refusal. To articles 185-185. 12 and 244.12 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences for the Evaluation or Obstruction of a Person in Matters requiring a State-authorized Antimonopoly Committee and articles 236 and 237 of the Civil Procedure Code. In accordance with article 44 of the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition, the draft law provides for the resolution of individual procedural actions by the Antimonopoly Committee bodies, namely: the order in which the evidence is collected by Article 1(3); the order in which the committee is submitted to the authorities. clarifications on Article 4th, 11th; order of examination and search for the purpose of removing or arresting objects, documents, other media that may be evidence or evidence in the case, article 12, 23rd. To sum up, the adoption of the bill will increase the effectiveness of the Antimonopoly Committee’s review of reconciliation issues, concentration of operators, normalization of the collection, evaluation, and preservation of evidence in matters. On the basis of this, the Economic Policy Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and will take into account the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and in the same way with a group of developers, particularly from the Supreme Court of Shitski Ivan Bogdanovic, the Antimonopoly Committee of Kostujev Alexiyyovich, will take into account their proposals and will make a second reading consistent with all of your proposals of the bill. I suggest in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. There's a draft decision on Pinzenic's inadmissibility. I don't see him. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yes, please, we have a reduced procedure. Then Karmazin, follow him Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Let's look at the need to adopt this law from that plane. I went to the Antimonopoly Committee after that. How he got evidence in a monopolistic conspiracy in Odessa to keep prices at the same level for all autofuels. The evidence was presented by representatives of the Lukoila labour force to the former because the former leadership cut people down, they recorded them with technical means, they protocolized them, and I gave them to the Antimonopoly Committee and the Attorney General's Office. What do you think? Breaking the criminal case? No, we didn't. Now the situation in a state with a 50-60-percent increase in fuel prices has not been fully resolved, including the fact that the Antimonopoly Committee, first of all, had no political will, because you don't have to bend over to the Administration, you have to serve the law. You have the law. And secondly, the Antimonopoly Committee had no instrumentation to remove those documents, had no instrumentation. And our business with you is to arm them today. Fearing that something would be wrong. I wouldn't be afraid, I'll tell you why. Because in gathering evidence, these people must be governed by law and be under judicial control. The law provides for a draft law that a judge can sanction. The Law provides that today we cannot simply avoid appearing to the Antimonopoly Committee or giving an explanation. He foresees drawing on administrative responsibility in the form of imposing a fine of one to five untaxed minimums, although I believe so. Very little. And this responsibility will have to be increased. And it needs to be made more severe until criminal responsibility. Because today it was very simple to do, the government of Yanukovic and the President are signing up and saying, powerless, they say that Parliament is guilty of increasing fuel prices. And, your honor, there are people who are to blame. The Antimonopoly Committee had to find that there was no reason to increase the price at the same time, it was definitely for all Ukrainian citizens. We had to get evidence, we had to use sanctions, and then we had to put an arrest on property, on the property of those who own oil factories in Ukraine today, who dictate here today, the people of Ukraine are making a mess of our village, killing our village. These are Russian companies. Let's call things our names. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u115	Please, Mironenko. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u116	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The Communist faction will vote in favour of the bill on first reading, as it aims to improve the work of the Antimonopoly Committee, whose role in terms of prices, tariffs and other problems is difficult to overestimate. However, the work of the Anti-Monopoly Committee in our circumstances is far from the rule of law. In fact, any firm that sells gas, gas, electricity to Ukraine can be prosecuted, as the current percentage of cent growth, tariffs are not justified. Moreover, if we take into account the level of price increases, tariffs in the world, the level of profitability of enterprises. The same applies to the cents of tariffs on housing and utilities and many goods. Certain areas related to the interests of high-ranking officials have been closed to us in the State since the Committee's audit. I'll give you just two examples: it's very easy to hear from a good host now, if there's any way to raise the price, the tariffs. To all, the well - known Mr. Kirpa willingly raised his tariffs for rail transport in the near past, began to build train stations, and immediately became known as a good host. It is not important to him that this increase in tariffs has led to an increase in all prices, tariffs in the country, deterioration in the situation of enterprises, labour groups and the population of the country. But the work of the Antimonopoly Committee has unfortunately not addressed this problem, although people call this gentleman's railway one of the greatest bandits in our country. The role of the railway must be in line with economic development and the interests of the population. Uh, no, it's not. The Minister of Transport of Cyprus issued an order leading to the creation of a new monopoly: the resubmission of the port fleet service, the transfer of cash flows to the benefit of Delta Lutzman, which may be beneficial to him. But as a result, labour groups of ports have lost much of their income, and their situation has deteriorated. The labour force of the Kerchen Sea Trade Port lost 33 per cent of its income, I repeat: 33 per cent of its income. And Mr. Kirpa says, "It's okay." Kirpa created the Rebirth Party and stated that the party would be based on the principles of justice. Well, what kind of reasonable person would believe him, knowing that he's raising tariffs, is rerouting the resources of the labor community? What kind of justice are we talking about here? Having received a request from the Veteran trade union organization of the city of Kerchi, the Union of Workers, Farmers and Intelligence, the City Committee of Kerchi Women, to repeal the above-mentioned order of the Minister, who has made the situation worse for the people and so on in the already troubled city of Kerchi, I have sent these appeals to the President, the head of the Government of Ukraine. The organizations expressing the request of the entire population of the city concluded with the words: “Very hopefully, for the President, the Ukrainian Government cannot be indifferent to the lives of the people of the town of Kerchi. But where is the Antimonopoly Committee? The Committee received an interim response: the Ministry of Transport did not provide information, did not provide documents for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u117	Please, Solomon. After him, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u118	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are discussing with you the draft Ukrainian Law on Evidence in Matters under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, introduced by the Government of Capitalist Ministers. The project is designed to implement paragraph four of the Final Provisions and article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition, capitalist competition, with the aim of facilitating in detail the order of removal of evidence in the possession of a natural or legal person. I'm asking myself, and I'm talking to you, and where is our Home Office? Where is the Ukrainian Security Service? Where's our famous Customs Department? Where's the taxes? Where is the National Security Coordination Council? Where are the commission investigators of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Nobody believes anyone in this bourgeois state, and the government is proving it through this bill. He's trying to form 100 independent commissions and 100 independent institutions in capitalist competition. So-called capitalist eggs have 100 capitalist baskets. That's the state we have and that's the kind of society we have. According to our and world practice, anticompetitive conspiracies are the most dangerous violations. They occur orally, during informal meetings, and are not promised in any documents. An example of this is the "Criminal," which has been mentioned many times in recent days from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So it's a revelation. around the world, they're using exactly the processual tools that are proposed in this law. We believe that the faction of communists that capitalism through the improvement of drafts can't be fixed at all, but in this case we assume that it is possible to try and give the Antimonopoly Committee some authority to actually make at least an attempt to ensure that there are no competitive conspiracies and that all of these so-called tenders, tenders, auctions are at least part of capitalist legislation. And finally. Dear fellows! Dear radio listeners! On June 22nd, at 11 o'clock on the Maidan, the women-independence worker gathers a national event for recalling our military personnel from Iraq. I urge everyone to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u119	The word is given by the people’s deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, "Trudova Ukraine". In that complex coalition that these colleagues have already been talking about here, and we've heard about it with you and we see, they are very often exploding in our economy, they have negative social consequences, more and more for reasons or violations of anti-monopoly legislation, or because of the imperfections of anti-monopoly legislation. Understanding the need for all politicians in this room, who sincerely, not in word, want to establish order in our national economy, in our economy, to improve the effectiveness of dealing with infringements of antitrust laws in Ukraine. This is the main task of the bill that we are currently considering. And it will no doubt greatly improve the protection of the rights of the owners and the creation of conditions for all participants in the business market on equal competitive grounds. In addition, we now have the opportunity to take a real step, this really is going to be a real step towards adapting our anti-monopoly legislation to European Union legislation. And on another occasion, I would like to pay attention. This vote today on the adoption of bill number 3640, the government bill, will show our voters and ourselves who in this room, which political or business-financial forces or circles represented in Parliament do not want to join in the cause of improving the efficiency of the Anatymonopoly Committee, and who wants to join in bringing the order in our society to an end. The Labour Ukraine MPs are calling on the Ukrainian people's deputies, calling on all those who want to ensure order in society who want to ensure equality in society before the law to support Bill 3640. There are tremendously many negatives around the mechanism, the monopolism that develops in our country. And we need to consider one thing. There are rules to play, they need to be improved. And for today, I don't know a more important task for politics than to contribute to the normal functioning of our economy. Once again, I propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Question completed. That's why I'm putting a bill on "Providing Evidence in Matters under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine", Bill 3640 in the first reading. [[12:31:20]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there was no signal. Right. So, dear colleagues, now we're going to do it again. Here's the first decision, although the author didn't report it, but there's a draft of the People's Deputy's Order on Inadmissibility. I'm asking you to vote on the Pinzenic Ordinance on the inadmissibility of this bill. [[12:32:18]] Z-77 Not accepted. Please, Motive Quick. Chibko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u122	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovsk. I would like to tell my colleagues who have not voted in favour of this bill that it is this bill that will strengthen the will and capabilities of the Antimonopoly Committee. I struggled to lower prices in Dnepropetrovsk a year and a half ago. And I've seen how inconsistent the Antimonopoly Committee has sometimes been. Not only did he lack the political will, but he probably did not have the legislation of ours that did not support his actions, it would not be possible to gather the possibilities of anti-monopoly conspiracies. And even now that the Antimonopoly Committee has considered the situation in Dnepropetrovsk, these people who were fined, I mean Shintoza, they've brought them to trial. All the anti-monopoly proceedings and the decision to fine them for this anti-monopoly conspiracy have stalled. Therefore, I would like to support this bill in order to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u123	Who's to go back to voting on this bill, please make up your mind. [[12:34:03]] For 279 A decision has been made. So I'm voting on the bill to provide evidence in cases that are being dealt with by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Registration number 3640 in the first reading. [[12:34:31]] For 276 The Law was adopted in the first reading. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. [[on food products]] Registration number 3694. Deputy Minister of Economy and Euro-Integration of Bilokur Dmitry Eduardoovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill was prepared as a result of a review by the Ukrainian Customs Council since March 5, 2004, Protocol 57. The bill refers to three positions: fish products, cocoa products, and hopsyrovina. Fish products offer details at the national level without changing import duties. [[concerning scombria]] This is aimed at improving the efficiency of the calculation of imports of individual fish products, since the current qualification of the selected products does not allow for a picture of the load flows of imports of specific types of mackerel. I mean, of course, Japanese-Australian. As well as implementing Ukraine’s international agreements reached in the negotiations for Ukraine’s entry into WTO. On the other hand, it is suggested that the details of the goods be cancelled at national level without changing the rates of import duties. This is due to the fact that the modern classification of cocoa and its products is based on the signs of packaging and net weight, namely (a) weight of 10 kg or more in primary packages and (b) others. According to the 2002 and 2003 and 2004, 99.9 percent of total imports into Ukraine of cocoa products are made up of 10 kg or more of primary packaging. Thus, the cancellation of the specified detail is based on the need to warn that issues arise in the classification of cocoa products for industrial use, as well as to avoid over-detailing of these commodity codes. As far as hopesyrovine is concerned. It is proposed to reduce import duties from 50 percent to 20 percent with the aim of supporting and further developing the domestic beer industry. [[pulsing and full]] The fact is that according to the Ministry of Agriculture’s Agriculture Policy, in 2002 only 650 tons were collected for the basic alpha-acid content of three and a half percent, while the need for the raw materials sector in 2003 is striking 2,700 tons, i.e. the provision of household hops will be 18-20 percent. According to previous estimates, the Ministry of Economics lost the State budget in the event of a reduction in the import duty on hopessyrovine is equal to 20 per cent if the import volume of this product is maintained at the 2003 level of about 424 thousand. This is not the case in the case of non-governmental organizations. That's right. At the same time, Minagro's calculations. The additional revenue from the budget as a result of reaching the planned volume of beer production will be $14 million, i.e. a total of $13.5 million, as well as 20 percent of that before the WTO. Therefore, the adoption of this bill is a step in the way of bringing Ukraine’s legislation into line with the requirements of GAAT SOT. And please, Your Honor, accept this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u125	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we've consulted with the profile committee here. We have three bills that apply to the customs tariff. So we're going to listen to the reporters, then we're going to talk to the profile committee, we're going to talk about them, and we're going to define ourselves. Please, is there a national MP, Sergienko? Draft Law 3697, Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on customs tariffs for customs duties on the raw materials of the paper industry. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u126	Dear Head, honourable deputies. The introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the 3697 Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff was prompted by the need to protect national producers, provide domestic producers with quality raw materials, create conditions for the cost-effective operation of enterprises, increase the volume of competitive production and introduce innovative technologies. The bill proposes to reduce import duty rates to types of raw materials, stressing those that are not produced in Ukraine, but are used in the production of linoleum, wallpaper, weaving industry, printing books, newspapers, etc. The reduction in import duty rates will allow for almost twice the output of the product. Income from the budget will increase by 28 to 30 million dollars only on the basis of projected levels of taxation of domestic production, as confirmed by the expert conclusion of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. In the drafting of the bill, the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine agreed on all the chemicals listed. The State Customs Service of Ukraine carried out a detailed five - species review and revised Chapter 10 of the Customs Tariff of Ukraine to harmonize with the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union. The Customs Council approved a reduction in import duty rates on a non-produced raw material in Ukraine. The draft law has been reviewed and supported by the Supreme Council’s professional committees, meeting Ukraine’s international obligations and the basic position of European Union legislation. But because there was a technical error in passing a customs-tariff council protocol, which was not included in the customs-tariff protocol for the three commodity positions, as the drafter of the bill asked to exclude the following commodity items from the bill, code 3204, 20,000-synthetic organic substances used in fluorescent bleachers and preparations. Subparagraph 9, Code 3812, 302000 - Antioxidants and Subparagraph 10, Code 381409000, other paragraph one. And in view of the deletion of the above mentioned commodity items, I ask you to technically replace the numbering. The rest is agreed on both the Customs Council and the Committees, so, honourable colleagues, please consider the amendment bill and accept it as a law as a whole. Today, not in words, but in support of domestic goods. Those people who are standing under the walls of the Supreme Council, and the weaving industry, and the production of linoleum. Since the 13 companies in lynoleum production that worked in 2002, there are only nine remaining. The same is true in the paper industry. So I ask you to support this bill, which will allow you to work in enterprises that are not working today and are waiting for this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another bill we have is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on payment of duties and taxation of transactions with cultural values. Bill No. 4147. First Deputy Minister of Culture of Novohatko. You don't? But I saw him go somewhere. We'll be fine anyway, we'll listen. Then, please, after all three bills from the profile committee, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Activities, Tsusko Vasil Petrovich. Please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I won't be taking your time today. So under Law 3694, which was reported by the Deputy Minister, we suggest that our committee, because we have a question of hops and there are arguments on the part of the agrarians, we propose that it be adopted only on first reading so that the law does not fail. Under the second law, Sergienko, 3697, is proposed to be adopted on first and second reading. This law has indeed been discussed from all sides. He's been hanging for so long. It's really the help of the industry that we're producing wallpapers in order to import raw materials for this particular industry that we're developing. Therefore, the committee's decision is: according to the first bill, Adam Ivanovich, only the first reading and, according to the Sergienko bill, the first and second readings, i.e. in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u129	What about cultural?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u130	And 4,147 is our committee's position, and it matches Minfin's. It is not possible to allow individuals and legal persons to import cultural values, well, there is a reason that he bought an icon somewhere and so on without a duty. We have proposed: if this is of interest to the State, we must provide in the budget that we want, for which museum, which collection to buy. [[Minfin proposed, the committee supported]] We're bringing it here, and we're using the gas budget. Yeah, well, we're gonna have to bring any of them in, excuse me, flatfoot, and not pay the toll. Therefore, our committee has proposed a third bill, 4147, to be rejected. And that's exactly what Minfin thinks. We need to do this through the budget if we want to do this for people, for the state, for the museum. And for private collections, who wants to drive something, drive it. If someone's collecting German or something, pay the budget. If you have money in your pocket, you have money to pay your taxes. Here's the committee's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now vote. There are, however, some deputies insist on speaking. So please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. He'll be on all three projects, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to address these three issues in the context of Ukraine's national interests. And there's no other. So I'm going to start with the last project, because right now our colleague was talking about this project. This is about a project to import cultural values into Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I believe that we must now contribute to the return of all cultural values to Ukraine. You can imagine that today a man has purposed and there is already, you know, the relatives of some of our Gehmets are coming back here, bringing pictures. And they're told, "Pay the state first." He's connected to this state by what's illegal and you're offering to pay. People are good! Let's go this way: all that goes into this country of value, let it go this way. It's not supposed to be coming out. There's got to be a nipple system. But let's write out the conditions under which it can go here and what it should go on. Here I suggest, let's take the first reading and Tsuko agrees with me -- you see -- thank you already and write out what kind of paintings. Whether they want to give it to the museum or to the school or to the state and then to the benefit of Ukraine, let it be in favor of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. The pup agreed to the place -- you hear, Adam Ivanovich, he withdrew his offer. Now let's move on. Let's see if it's in the interest of Bill 3694 on the amendment to the Customs Tariff on July 2. The Minister's office. Dear National Deputies! I am absolutely sure that this project is going to the detriment of the people of Ukraine. Why? I have something to do with fish industries. There's the largest Antarctic company in Odessa. Nobody's doing anything to get involved here, to help our businesses work. On the contrary, we work in the West. We've come to the point where you're suggesting that the hopesyrovin reduce the counting that's going to go into the budget. What are we doing, good people? I am absolutely pointing out to you that Zitomirska or Chernigivska, Volinska region, which have traditionally grown this hop, and you are proposing to change import duties and to the detriment of the state. I repeat, because we have to fight for our own manufacturer. So I think that what's justified by the need to adopt this bill is the need to improve conditions, to secure the brewery industry in Ukraine with raw materials is absolutely not a match for reality. It's lobbying Western structures that bring this raw material here. And this is the destruction to the end of these agrarian areas, where nothing on earth but hops grows. Come on, look, talk to the people. Representatives of the Party of Protectors speak and report on what is happening there. There's destruction of the entire sector, of the whole region, and we can't help it. Now it's about dolls and so on, which represent people. We have to stop the smuggling. I'm against this law. And I ask you to vote against this law. As far as Bill 3697 is concerned. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the national MP, Sergienka, for asking the right question. Compared to the 1990 ’ s, the volume of production of linoleum alone declined 10 times in the country, from 33 million square meters to 4 million. And today 90 percent in the domestic market is the product of foreign producers, which comes at 55 cents, 55 cents in the inquests are recorded. What are we doing? Where's the government? Where is the budget filling? Do you understand? Where is the promotion of the manufacturer’s own product? And go buy normal both of them cheaper than 30 or 50 bucks. Don't buy it. That's why we need to adopt this bill. And Customs needs to open their eyes. Security needs to open their eyes. The militia needs to open their eyes, the President needs to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u133	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Then the Hare has another word. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich. And Yavorowski asks, and Shershun. No, no, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u134	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Adam Ivanovich, I'm not going to talk about what kind of reading these bills are supposed to be, because if I don't say so, you're going to do as you agreed, even though there's a Rules and there's some other rules. So I want to talk about the problem. In fact, on the one hand, we see the brewing industry growing in volume. On the other hand, we see the resurgence of hops in Ukraine and there is some state support. I'm alone in the Zitomir region. When I was a boy, I collected this hop very much. I know how this hop grows, how much work it takes, how many pesticides it takes to grow it. And today we see this area rising. Here's the problem -- on the one hand, we need to ensure the rebirth of the hops, on the other hand -- we also have to ensure the production of beer, because it's the same national product. We've got a national manufacturer called The Skin, and in his policy, he's solely focused on the internal market for the purchase of components, and he wants to take it to the national manufacturer. So I think the problem right now is not just to increase or decrease the import rate. Today, we must approach this problem from a state standpoint, how we can balance the interests of brewers with those of those who produce hops today. Is there enough regulation today just for one moment, or maybe today we need to talk about integrated manufacturing systems where companies that buy hop production are investing in the development of this hop. So as you can see, the problem is not as simple as we think. I'd like to see a representative from the Ministry of Agrarian Politics here. I consulted the speaker right now, and I asked him, is that okay with our agriculture today, is that okay? How does it work? In this situation, therefore, honorable national deputies need to act wisely. If we accept such bets, these bets should be temporary today, because we should direct our industry to an internal manufacturer. When it comes to saving taxes on import duties on cultural values. Dear friends, let them import. The more they import cultural values into Ukraine, the more they bring them back from Ukraine, and you know that they are all over the world today, the richer our Ukrainian people will be. So I would be free to import cultural values without any payment of import duties. There's no need to be afraid of that. As for the state budget, drive, and 99 percent of the state museum has no areas to show. And if you're in a private collection, don't drive. Well, what's the state's interest? Let's get the exhibition halls.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u135	Thank you. That's right, Ivan Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, now, now. From Javorowski's place to the moment, behind him is Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u136	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, I want to continue what I failed to finish my colleague John the Rabbit. Indeed, we do. It's about importing art values. We really need to support this bill, because I just want to remind you that somewhere in the previous years, as many of us from Ukraine have taken out icons, paintings. It was such a crazy stream. We've actually stayed with almost nothing today, with Cuchma's portraits in every office, actually, and that's it. That is why this bill must be supported. And the last. I just want to get my attention. I've got two customs in the county, "Rava Ruska" and "Krakowets". I want to say that we have issued the 310th order of our Customs Committee, which has the so-called simplified crossing of the border. I want to remind you that because of this simplified crossing, Ukraine is losing huge costs today. Our interim commission of inquiry will take care of it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Shershun. After him, Seminoga. You're not in your place. Please. Your card is somewhere else. Yes, please. Shershun's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u138	The need for adoption of the bill is based on the need to improve the conditions for the provision of beer companies and manufacturers in Ukraine by hopseering, since domestic hop crops provide only 18-20 percent of the demand for domestic goods. But, gentlemen of brewers, farmers of Ukraine are able to grow their own high - quality hops in sufficient quantity. So give investment to your manufacturer, first of all protecting the interests of your own country. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Agrarian Party’s MP is of the opinion that it is based on a first-reading review of the proposals for adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Seminoga. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u140	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Bill 3694, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, states that the main purpose of adopting the bill is to protect the domestic producer. But I don't see why then I should lower the excise rates on imports of hope-products. Ukraine is an agrarian state where hops were developed. And for today, this area is in a terrible band. Instead of developing some of the principles of development in this sector, there is an opportunity to work. And today we support a foreign producer. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, removing two points from it that relate to hops and dolls.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u142	Thank you. First of all, I would like to focus on this draft of the Law on the Customs Tariff on food products. This is a reduction in the rate of imports of hop production in Western countries. And, of course, you could say that the Ukrainian hop is inequitable. What about the quality Ukrainian grain? Well, what about Ukrainian sugar? Everything's inconceivable. Let's ban everything, import everything from the West and take advantage of the fact that we're going to pay a couple of extras on the border. We need to develop an internal Ukrainian market first. There's a huge number of consumers in hop production. We have a lot of beer varieties. People want to use it, use needs to be made healthy and quality. Ukraine produces, by the way, that Ukraine produces only pasteurized beer, or third category beer. No brewery in Ukraine cooks fresh quality beer. This is the first time. It's because they work on canned hops, including. I stress that if we want to develop our market, we need to develop it. That's why I'm against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u143	Thank you. One minute, Tsuko, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u144	Tzusko, Socialist faction, First Vice Chairman of the Committee. In view of our discussion, I'm proposing Law 3694, and everyone said so on the first reading only because you heard the hops. 3697, Sergienko law, first and second, no objection. And by Law 4147, I agree, I also said to my fellow Hare and others, Carmazin, that we need to look at this law in second reading, not to ban the removal of the bribe, but to see what cultural values we really need to take down, what directions the list might be, and so on. It is therefore proposed that the first law be read first, the second law as a whole, and the third law as a first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now vote on three laws in a row, so pay attention. I am voting on the draft Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine. [[on food products]] Registration number 3694, first reading. [[13:00:11]] For 279 The Law was adopted in the first reading. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Bill number 3697, taking into account the proposals made by the national deputy of Sergeinka. First reading. [[13:00:51]] For 361 This gives us a basis for the second set, in general. Vote. [[13:01:15]] For 315 The law is passed in general as a law. I am betting on the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine Bill No. 4147. Vote. [[13:01:50]] For 369 Copy that. Can we accept it in general? Please, the Yavorov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, wait, come on, understand me humanly! My colleague Karmazin has some comments on this bill, and someone else does. I understand their warning. But let's see another thing: we can't write in the law what are the paintings: let's -- Rembrandt can be imported there, let's say Picasso can't, there and so forth. That's why I'm convinced that we're going to vote. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Culture, is Novohátko here, the First Deputy Minister, - let them develop the appropriate regulations - and everything will be fine. I just don't see any problem, there's no subtext to it. Put it on, Adam Ivanovich, as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u147	Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud insults me that I never say a word to him. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u148	The Cloud, the Fatherland faction, the Fatherland Party, the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Dear national MPs, you can't do that in such a hurry. Think about it: It's not defined what cultural values are. We're going to be brought garbage in the form of cultural values. What are you doing? You can't do that!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u149	Yes, Chernewsky. Czernovecki microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u150	Respectable people's deputies, whatever they take here, are good for Ukraine. All that is cultural values will enrich our people and our culture. And we can imagine that we're going to have some values here and from Egypt, all the way to the pharaohs, and our images that we can't bring today: 20 percent of the bribe I had to pay for the paintings of a Ukrainian artist that I bought abroad. Well, that's outrageous! We vote in full because it is for Ukraine's benefit and will mainly import around the world so that the people's deputies know, mostly love their art. And no one's gonna bring you here. Of course I'm joking. There won't be any pharaohs. There will be sculptures of Chevchenko and everything else. And it's a progressive law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Please, Baby, let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Deputity Cusco. Our committee supports the law on duty. But there's a VAT. So please, let's not be hasty right now, so we don't have to miss it. We will prepare and put in the room in a week's time, taking into account all the suggestions: both Carmazin and all the colleagues who spoke. And Karmazin himself supported it. And a colleague of Yavorivsky's. Let's not rush, we'll support the law as a whole, but let's just deal with VAT, because it's a budget loss. And then we'll take the law. Ivan Alexandrovich, I supported you on your first reading. But I can't take it as a committee, so please let's not fail, we've been accepted in the first and second readings in a week, and we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u153	Yes, Your Honor, do you vote? Yes, Your Honor, then I'd like to consult with you. Now, now, it's gonna be "Crazy." We have three bills left: a draft law on the handling of explosives. Are the objections serious? Wait, it's gonna be "Virgin." It will be. Under the draft law on the handling of explosives, is there anyone who has serious objections to this bill? You don't? Then I put to the vote the first reading of the draft law on the handling of explosives. [[Bill 4589]] Please vote. [[13:06:29]] For the 250. Copy that. Gorgeous of the committee. What do you mean? Can we do it or not? No, then not. Now we have two more laws on energy conservation. Yes, dear fellows! 4417 is a bill amending the Energy Conservation Act of Ukraine. [[about new directions]] Are there any significant warnings? Karmazin's got it. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich! I don't think we can pass laws in such a hurry. This is about what the project says: it complements the existing Energy Conservation Act, which was adopted in July 1994, by a new article of 24 prima. "Energy Audition." And this audit will be conducted with the aim of identifying ways of rational use, energy conservation, and so on. So I'm noting that there's a benefit to the adoption of this law, but I'd like to warn you that there's a general vote on two readings right now. We can only be supported in the first reading, with huge, huge warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Let's support the first reading. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Energy Conservation Act on new directions. Bill number 4417. [[in the first reading]] [[13:08:32]] For 252 Copy that. And the last one we have. Draft Law amending the Law on Electricity in Ukraine. [[on reducing financial pressure on consumers]] Any warning? 5120. Then I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity in the first reading. [[on reducing financial pressure on consumers]] Vote. [[13:09:12]] For the 220. Let's take a look. All of it. Dear colleagues! Sorry we took nine minutes. So we'll be in session by 14/10. I'd like you to sign up for "Virgin." Please show me your list. Please, Singeruk, follow him, Taran. Please, Vernigor instead of Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u156	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Who in the country did not itch to heal, but to insure people. Whether it was that glorious Constitutional Night that affected the deputies of the second vocation, or whether such an attitude of MPs was, you see, a fundamental human right to free treatment. People were encouraged to do so for their Fatherland, for belonging to it. And somehow, according to statistics, the first year or two became less sick. Where they don't ask for medical help, and that's when the field office and the obstetrics station closed down, the district hospital didn't stop. A year later, two years later, when the drugs were on the increase, the disease became even less, and several times more, and what is characteristic of the disease. Because where the disease is being treated without self - care, patients are not being admitted to the hospital. And that's how the state became comfortable with statistics. People are getting less and less sick, and this trend is not decreasing. And it is true that the basic law also mentions the right of a person to health insurance. You have the money to bring it to the Medical Insurance Fund, and if you need it will give you extra costs for medical services that are better, more professional and finally better than those provided by the State. Neither the Constitution nor the right of a person to be healthy nor justice is in conflict. Because whoever works better needs to be treated better. How so? For more than a year now, Bills of National Social Insurance have been published in the Supreme Council. The story of all these bills is the payment by businesses and entrepreneurs of funds to the Medical Insurance Fund, for which we will be treated. I mean, it's not free, it's on us. Because which and where the money is not counted by the enterprises, and they lie on the cost of the product, and then on the cost of the goods, which means on our pockets. That's how it depends on the charity of these bills. Hence, he explains to these authors: Read the basic law carefully and not only do it but also do it, for you are the legislative authority and you are walking under it. So on that constitutional night, lawmakers did not fail and made a very correct record of compulsory public health care.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u157	Victor Terrence. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u158	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear colleagues, dear citizens of Ukraine. Last day was marked by the triumph of opposition, your victory, dear citizens. Because it's because of the actions taken by Yulia Timoshenko, because of Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine", because of other political forces for which Ukraine is facing everything, not its own pockets, that the government was forced to review the budget, and the 8 billion dollars that the government has hidden for the elections are now going to the State budget. The fact that Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka, blamed the government of Yanukovich for ten billion dollars in budget, has now become a fact that, in fact, the government itself has acknowledged. Well, you know, the authorities are the most painful to react to when money is pushed out of the pockets of bandits, and the authorities can't forgive it. And that's why, and because the authorities are afraid to lose billions after the presidential elections, a new attack on Julia Timoshenko and our political power began. And that's why the Attorney General planned a brutal provocation against Julia Timoshenko. Now, as we know, all the previous charges against her have actually turned against the prosecution's brutal lie, so now Julia Tymoshenko is being accused of allegedly wanting to bribe someone, but there are no judges she seems to want to give this bribe to, no names, no money, but it's qualified as a bribe. It's laughter and grief, and it sounds like this: anyone who looks at a picture of a naked woman in the paper can be arrested on charges of attempted rape if, of course, the person who looks at this photograph is in opposition to the present authority. Kuchma’s greatest attack and environment is directed against Julia Timoshenko of our political power, the most active and consistent one that does not compromise with power. And if you, dear citizens, see the Inter, which is controlled by Medvedchuk, or by other government channels, on the program. Look at Jangirov's face, and you will see the face of today's power. If there are attacks on a political leader, brutal attacks, if flooded, then know that this is the political leader you need most to make Ukraine a prosperous state for us to live with you in a normal state. And lastly, it's all about bridging the opposition, but we're the only ones, we're going to win the election, Ukraine will be a normal state. And we want to add to your confidence that we're going to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u159	Andrew School has the floor. Get ready for Simon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u160	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Well, of course, I'd like to stop at the "Variance" question, it touches on everything that's happened in a week, but the latest events, the latest events in the session room, are forcing me to talk about today. What happened to the vote for the draft law on the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatization of shares, particles and pies, what happened here, was really another, incomprehensible thing. I can't understand how it happened that a drafter of one political power was stretching the bill and his political power was voting against it? Because the political power represented by the Communists here was, of course, interested in preventing the embezzlement of property. But why did their dignitary, in the Presidency, do everything in order to run counter to the logic, contrary to the law, in contravention of the Supreme Council's Rules, through the walls of Parliament? And in general, you can't turn the Supreme Council, the higher legislature, into a law-making factory. Not for this purpose nor for this purpose were we given authority by the Ukrainian people. We represent the will of the Ukrainians here, we represent the will of our constituents, not the hostage of someone's underground games. And the next. Similarly, for reasons that are not clear, another faction voted yesterday to make Ukraine a legitimate police state. Of the eight billion that have been counted if they would go for social needs, of course, for the most part for social needs, for social needs of the employees of the BSS, for the police, 400 million. It went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You think one of the police officers, one of those guys who's gonna stand on the street freeze to death from the post office, gets even a penny? Nothing like that. This money will be given to those who now travel to the great black Mercedes, gather there to their easters in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and do nothing but rob their own people. So I'm going to point out that what happened yesterday has strengthened the existing regime once again. And the legions that are now at the head of the Yule Block, Timoshenko, are only because we've never turned or turned away from the path we've chosen. All of this is done, all of these provocations are sewn up with such thick and white threads that it becomes clear to a simple person, for what, for whom, and for who, and for who, and who, the customers, are. I'm just going to point out once again that the sign that the caravan is going in the right direction is the bark of dogs. And all we appreciate is how dogs bark, all these attempts to sew white threads on something that's not sewn on. Let the dogs bark, and the caravan will still be victorious, and they will not be able to form any opposition or opposition. We will win, and victory will follow us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u161	People's MP Migovich. Get Phydenka ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Honorable national MPs, guests, voters. Today, people in employment and unemployed Ukraine have no opportunity to realize basic social rights. It is no exception to the will to express their thoughts. A particularly suffocating atmosphere took place in Zacarpatta. The number of environmental, political, and social disasters of my countrymen are being brought into the information war. In addition to the clearly overpowered and so-called independent, it has recently been inspired by the release of newspapers through questionable founders with far inhumane democratic goals, among them the Herald, the News Weeks, the Jewish, the Youth and other specific productions of pseudojournalisms. They are funded by various funds, sponsors, and private entrepreneurs, and they actually serve the executive authority. Its representatives voluntarily collect funds from businessmen and even budget institutions. Thus, in the Great Brezna district in writing, the district was required to list a thousand coins for the Zakarpatá Science Foundation, which, by the way, is headed by the head of the district government. This foundation openly feeds the Esdek newspaper The Worldview. A lot of money is similar to what the authorities say about football development, show performances, artistic activities, and so forth. In fact, the collected funds are uncontrollably spent on information expansion and the zombies. Usually, Keeler newspapers are distributed free of charge, without the consent and willingness of citizens to throw themselves into mailboxes, impose prosedek slogans, serve as a tool for disinformation, administrative pressure on their consciousness, and psychology, and cultivate mutual suspicion, fear, aggression, and other negative phenomena among them. In the face of the sad "darks" of the Bank, in the form of a fight against the corruption of pseudogasts, the Carpathians embezzle the opposition, the disagreeable authorities of leaders, politicians, landlords, and perform all the demands of the ruling SDPU(o). The material produced in the district administration walls through various publishers continues to be distributed in official publications. In doing so, so often and so cynically, citizens are insulted with the honor and dignity of their citizens, making it more difficult to defend their freedoms legally. In the area, opposition media are unjustifiably banned, they are restricted through "The Crucifixion", there is a dictatorship over the public press, there is a bribery of addicts and the harassment of free journalists, there are other negative phenomena. So I'm going to fight them all the way, and I'm going to count on your colleagues, the general public, and the National Journalists Association, which I've been in for over 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u163	People's MP, Phydenko. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I want to address a rather complex and difficult question for many of our voters today, and unfortunately, the typical question. It's about teaching in higher education institutions where our state, in its Basic Law of the Constitution, gave guarantees to people of the right to free education in state colleges. Unfortunately, this is not the case in life. Recently, there were parliamentary hearings in this room about the problems of high school. Here's where the argument went that there should be more free education in a government college or a paid school. Of course, free teaching or family budgeting is a problem that is very beneficial for the management of prisons, for it is an extra income. Here. And for families, especially families that live below the standard of living, these are huge problems. Not long ago, I was speaking in the town of Koveli in front of the voters, and after speaking to me, I was approached by the mother of one of the student boys of Dorocholsk's mother, Mary Yevna. She gave me an application for my name and asked me to go to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic or to publish in one of the newspapers, such as the Facts newspaper. Well, what would it do? As she says, I had no hope of getting my son back to Lviv University for law school. The point is that Alexander was there learning in the state form of education, and then, after not being able to give up the session, he was put away, and then he was thrown away, and then he was thrown away, and then he kept dropping out of the student lineup, until he couldn't pay for the training. A disabled mother at home gets a pension that doesn't allow her and her two children to live, she lives alone, since their father has long left them. On the other hand, the disabled mother asks Prime Minister Yanukovich to be able to teach his son, to count him in the form of State education. And I, for my part, as a national deputy, am addressing the honourable Victor Fedorovich and I ask that you give this protocol commission on behalf of your mother and ask that you allow your son to complete his studies at the Law School of the University of Lviv in State Education. What's more, once again, I want to remind you that the Basic Law - the Constitution guarantees this right to every citizen of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday we witnessed how the blasphemous government reported and showed that it had hidden huge revenues in the State Budget. But more than 7 billion remained unaccounted for by privatization funds. They did not want to get them out of the shadows, they were afraid to accept the budget in two readings, and they accepted one mach of anticonstitutional yesterday. I want the citizens to know that they didn't benefit, they didn't go to education, they didn't go to science, they didn't go to medicine, they didn't go to culture. By the way, I'm asking the chairman to give both the House of Auditors and the Henprosecutors about where the money was distributed over the planned 5 billion dollars of budget income compared to the approved State Budget Act 2003, which was originally 50 billion dollars. And I'd like to draw your attention to where the money was to be sent, and where, I demand that the Security Council and the National Defence Council, not just by meeting with Sultan Brunea, be surrounded by the entire Supreme Council now. You know, you and Brunei are here, and the President is here. Jesus, what are we spending our money on? I point out that tuberculosis in our country is a threat to Ukraine’s national security. I would like to point out that, with the active participation of Kabmin, the Ministry of Health, the local authorities in 11 years, 52 anti-tuberculosis dispensers have been eliminated, 36 local and district dispensers have been reorganized, 7000 200 dispensary beds have been reduced, sold and eliminated, leased for 49 years 86 anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums, and the number of beds reduced by 17,000. The incompetence of the physiatric profession is due to low wages, regular job cuts, and lack of adequate social protection. The level of occupational illness has already increased by 20 times. I would like the National Security and Defence Council to protect Ukrainian citizens, first of all, the sick, and second of all, the sick. Because the situation is that every year about 40,000 TB patients die about 10,000 to 11,000. That is, every hour four people get sick and one person dies. Tuberculosis mortality is 80 percent of all infectious and parasitic diseases. What else must we spend our money on? That's what you have to spend your money on. I demand action, and I ask you to consider this a request to the Security and Defence Council and the Ministry of Health and the Cabinet of Ministers for the use of adequate emergency personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u167	Katusheva has the word. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u168	The Communist faction, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Katusheva. June 20th, a professional health worker's holiday. Regrettably today, medical personnel, highly qualified doctors have the salary below the minimum subsistence wage established by the Supreme Council. In fact, along with their patients, they are hostages of the current regime. There are very few health problems and not enough budget allocations for them. The difficult demographic situation, when the population's mortality is higher than that of birth, has reduced the population by more than 4 million. It cannot help but be anxious and in pain for the future of our Fatherland. At this difficult time, in extremely difficult socio-economic conditions on your shoulders, dear doctors, our primary responsibility for life and the health of our loved ones is our children, grandchildren, fathers and mothers. So accept the sincere words of gratitude and thanks for your self-loathing, noble, hard work, and devotion to your professional duty, for giving the warmth of your hearts and hands generously to those who suffer. A low gift from all of us. May you always be accompanied by social support, understanding, and genuine love and appreciation for your patients. Good luck in your noble cause. We believe that we will survive difficult times by maintaining our fine medical personnel. Allow me to conclude with the statement from a letter from the electorate from Luhansk Chupruna Ludmila Pavlovna. "I want to live like this when our people come, you're the Communists." Thank you very much, Ludmila Pavlovna, of all of us Communists. I'm sure we'll come. And to that end, we need your support and assistance. And do not wait for the coming, but come with us to draw him near. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u169	Stepan Bulba. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u170	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, I am primarily addressing the voters of the Poltava constituency in Poltava. Yesterday, the factions of the block, as well as Victor Yushchenk's block, voted in the first reading of the land market bill. The willingness to sell the Ukrainian lands was demonstrated by 247 national deputies, including 32 from the Yushchenka faction. The latter have shown that all the talk about the moratorium, that is, the ban on selling land, is just the political game before the presidential election. Last week, he visited several areas in meetings with voters. He was also convinced that where the sad decrees of Kuchma were not being followed to reform the countryside, where the technique was not stretched out, and collective forms of farming were preserved. Even today, people live much better, have jobs, and are paid. Other villages do not live, but they suffer, for example, in the village of Orlik Kobeljak, where unemployment reaches 95 percent, or in the village of Pustojujodulka, whose land is under the control of the Poltava Bank. Yesterday, one of the speakers said: “The land will be bought by foreigners. ” But they won't. Of course, yes. But will there be a place on the sold land, for us Ukrainians, even if we wear embroidery? One of the agrarian leaders, who, by the way, also roams the Karlovy Vote to parliament, even determined the price of Ukrainian land -- 50 billion. That's what I'm talking about. Of course, this is much more than the 2002 harvest exported abroad. Yet everything is recognized in comparison. During the year of the war in Iraq, the United States spent twice as much as it did. And our patriots plan to make a fortune selling Ukraine. As socialists, we will never accept the transformation of the earth into a commodity. We need to trade bread, not land. The village needs help, not in the form of ownership of the right to land, but in thinking about how to resuscitate the destroyed large - scale production that will ensure both profitability and the prospects of the village. Today’s authorities are unable to bring about the necessary transformations. It needs to be changed, that's why I'm calling on the voters of the Karlovy polling area: if you're against selling Ukrainian land, if you're honest in power, come to the polls on June 20th and vote for socialist Rusin Alexander Mikolaiovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u171	Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get Katerinczuk ready. One minute, Caterinczuk's lineup, there is. Half a minute, please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u172	Dear voters, honourable speakers, you have just pointed out that our faction voted in favour of a bill that practically raises questions about the removal of the moratorium on the sale of land, so I would like to inform our radio audience that it is not true. We have, say, made our proposals, and now this law has been voted to continue the moratorium on land sales until 1 January 2007. And you know, this moratorium is being recorded in 2005. So I'd like you to be correct. And in general, I'd like you to hold back to what Yushchenko is doing, and look more closely at what you're doing, because by now we haven't been expecting you, whether you're against this criminal authority, or whether you're going to be "wetting" Yashchenka with the communists since the election, because Julia Timoshenko has already been identified. We want you and your voters to be honest before we do all these years, and now, in these elections, we could win this criminal power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to avoid discussion, and we're going to put in a different version of the speech. I'm asking the people's deputy Puzakov and the next to prepare for Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u174	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Article 48 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family. But of course it was not for Ukrainian citizens to write the Constitution because it was violated in the first article and at every turn. I will stop in more detail about housing, although not in Ukraine at all, but about the residents of the village of Kisilgur, in Kirovograd. The village was on the balance of the mechanical plant located in the village, but in 1995 this law was privatized, and since then five three - story buildings of the village have remained a mess. No one has anything to do with them. Five of these buildings are in an emergency, and the roof is flowing. On building 39, the roof was completely blown off by wind, and the plumbing and sewage systems were shut down, and the centralized heating in the buildings was shut down. That is, five buildings in the air, although the people of Mesquican arrived with the answer that the operation of buildings is carried out directly by a suitable enterprise, a mechanical plant that is obliged to repair buildings at the proper time, to provide for the unbreakable operation of the building’s engineering equipment. But the same factory has no relation after privatization to these buildings. So what do the inhabitants of these houses do? They don't have a pen today, because as they've been told in the Mesquikonkam, there hasn't been a village like this for 10 years. There are no people where to get help, although payment is required at the proper time, even through the courts they have collected debt. Elections are coming, and these people have nowhere to hide. Where their constituency will be, they don't know, because even during the 2002 parliamentary elections, they were outside the electoral company. They were denied admission to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Kirovgrad of these dwellings. Here's to you and the Qutsuk-Kravchuk Housing Code, for which Mr. Yushchenko and his team and all the Hard Ukraine and so-called majority voted furiously and today appear to be the saviors of the people, as guardians of human acquisition. Dear colleagues from the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the so-called majority, take off the masks from your faces, end with your lying ratings, because the people won't believe you anyway. And my statement is to take into account as a parliamentary request to the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Ukraine of Bilocon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u175	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine." Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u176	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear voters, I would like to pay attention to what happened yesterday. Yesterday, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the government admitted the fact that the budget had been stolen and it had been falsified. All the activities of the "Ukrainian" faction were directed to uncover this fact. And you saw that there was a custody requirement to pay back 10 billion stolen money in front of the Cabinet of Ministers. These actions were carried out all over Ukraine to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens that the government is rapidly robbing the State budget. We could not agree with that fact, and we could not agree to that fact. As a result, in implementing the legislative functions of the national deputy, Victor Yushchenko submitted a project on the urgent arrangements for the allocation of the hidden incomes of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2004, number 5334. Unfortunately, at the request of our faction, this bill was not considered in the session hall before the national MPs voted on these shameful changes to the State Budget. Yeah, we were able to fill a budget of 4.6 billion dollars with you, but that's not all the money that's trying to hide from the pension distribution, and the minimum wage, and other social benefits. I can't help but notice what's going on in the regions today. And I'd like to turn to you and draw your attention to the critical situation that has arisen with the water supply of the town of Cosyatina in the Viennese region. Two weeks ago, the Southwest Railway sent a letter to the people of Cosette telling them that it was June 15th that it could stop working for the Bear watershed. During the past ten years, the city of Cosyatin has been in a critical state of sanitation and epidemiology. A dangerous factor affecting the health of the population is the low quality of drinking water. The city consumes water from two open reservoirs located within the city. The state of these watersheds and the state of the coastal western strip, which have a direct impact on the quality of drinking water, are dangerous. Water outside the harvest does not meet the requirements of the State standard, and pollution is liquefied. All these water supply networks are long, 12 - 15 kilometers [12 - 15 km] long, and they were built a hundred years ago. If today, let's say, is not responding to my request by the Cabinet of Ministers for the possibility of earmarking in the State Budget for prejudices against technological catastrophes in housing and other municipal property, it will be another technological disaster, and we will see with you the poisoning of Ukrainian citizens, as we have seen in the situation of the poisoning of Kiev and Kharkiv babies. I beg you to be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u177	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u178	I ask you to consider my request to the Minister of Transport for not allowing the city of Cosyatina to be shut down from the water supply network and the unjustified increase in water tariffs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u179	People's Deputy Shibko, Soccer. Get ready for Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners of Ukraine! I want to say right now that this statement is an official request to Deputy Prime Minister Clovis, as well as to the Ministry of Our Fuel-Energy Complex, in order to say it at the right time and then not say it all at the end. I want to ask you, our distinguished radio listeners, especially the Dnipropetrov district residents, that Ukraine is the 5th country that has its nuclear industry and is producing 50 percent of the electricity at nuclear power stations today. Ukraine is also part of the World Organization of Nuclear Fuel Manufacturers MAGATE. But for today, the state and potential of domestic electricity companies, as well as the scientific and technical development of nuclear fuel production, is unsatisfactory and has ceased altogether. This once again shows that, to date, our nation is deliberately targeting its efforts to somehow dismantle the nuclear complex that exists in our country, to tear down those important strategic enterprises, to hand them over to us, as did the Crevice Metalworks. Nuclear fuel companies generally need modernization and reconstruction, and the creation of their own nuclear fuel cycle to solve the above-mentioned problems remains a matter of concern. I don't want to say that there were no decrees or decrees of the minister as to what was said. This is the President's decree of 94, and this is also the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 95, and it was approved by the Supreme Council's decree of 96. In June 2001, there was a decision by Kabmin that was approved by a nuclear fuel program. She did. nuclear fuel cycle. She pointed out a number of steps, but despite this program, the performance of all these decisions was virtually completely disrupted. For example, it led to what had stopped at all. " East," in other words, the production and processing of uranium have been completely eliminated. And to date, the main production of the Transnistrian Hymzad, today, is at a stage of bankruptcy. In general, I would like you, the esteemed radio listener, to think that a strategic enterprise today would go bankrupt. And to this day there are people in power, the efforts of the judiciary, who just don't have access to the relevant secret documents, but they are doing everything they can to tear it down and leave Ukraine completely out of the possibility of restoring the production of nuclear weapons. The cycle that our Ukraine needs so much. And I'm going to say it again. Please consider my speech as an official address to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Clovis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u181	Alexy Kozachenko, "Centre" group. Get ready, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u182	Alexei Kozachenko, Odessa, 134th constituency Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! The situation in Odessa was too complex in the field of land relations. Members of Parliament, my fellow countrymen, have already spoken from this rostrum on several occasions about the abuse of the Odean city authority in the field of land relations. This is explained by very simple things. In the past five or six years, Odessa has lost some 300 acres of the best land. Its market value, I'm stressing, is estimated at about 1 billion dollars. The city budget received some 10 million dollars. I mean, the difference is, it's just terrible. Thus, there is simply a struggle between the Odessa city’s commercial structures and the citizens. And, of course, in this struggle, citizens give in to their own interests. As an example, I can give you an example of what happened around what's called the Poles, which is the address of Marshall Zhukov, 57. Citizens living in a dense area with no landmarks, so - called recreational zone, objected that the only such small spot green among their multistory buildings would be put back into a commercial structure. They denounced this decision in court, and they repeatedly addressed the city’s head and the city council, but they did not hear it. According to the court’s decision, construction was suspended. Over the course of nearly seven times, the citizens, as a sign of despair, had to pick up the building site to attract the attention of the city’s authorities. But the actions of those guarding the site were wrong, and the militia acted without action. So let's say there are people who have suffered bodily harm. It's all protocoled, but there's no way. People are simply desperate for this. At the same time, reprisals have been launched against citizens who dared to protest illegal construction through the judicial authorities. So for the implementation of the legally guaranteed right to apply for applications and complaints to public authorities, and for taking care of a woodplast enterprise in court requires individual citizens to compensate for the damage. And the Kyiv District Court approved this lawsuit by arresting individual residents, citizens of shares, and participants in the protest. [[think about it.]] We see how the authorities respond to the problems of our voters. So I ask you to consider my request to the State Committee on Construction, Architecture, the Ministry of Environment, and the Attorney General's Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u183	The word is Vaschuk, the People’s Agrarian Party. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u184	Dear colleagues. The immediate reaction of intervention today calls for the sugar branch of Ukraine. When we made enough sugar, it's like they're starting to forget. And that's what's causing the anxiety. Although the sugar industry has recently begun to revive, thanks to the laws we have adopted, especially the Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar, which you and I adopted in 1999, and this year on measures to protect the internal market from imports of white sugar, sugar syrups and sugar beet seeds, there is still a problem. What does it involve? We have temporarily removed sugar syrups from the free trade regime, from Russia is white sugar, sugar syrup from the free trade regime with Georgia and sugar beet seeds from the free trade regime with Moldova. This is the order of Cabinet Order 456 and 473. But it is, of course, a necessary but late move. Last Tuesday, nearly half a million tons of sugar were transported through these free trade regimes to Ukraine, and this hit our drilling industry. It's not just an economy, it's a social issue. Where should a woman work in the village if there are no rotten crops, and these are the weeds, the vegetables, the animals are shrinking? So there has been trouble on the other side lately. It's coming from Belarus and Kazakhstan. doubtful sellers are offered, for example, Kazakh sugar by 24,000 tons of cane. Although it is known that the cane in Kazakhstan never grows or grows. And one of these parties has already been driven by agile plots to Ukraine. If we don't react, the sector will collapse further. Therefore, I ask that you consider the request to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to temporarily remove sugar from the free trade regime with Belarus and Kazakhstan. In a matter of seconds, I would like to address all the medics with the most sincere words of gratitude and welcome them from the faction of the National Agrarian Party with a professional holiday. Good luck, good and universal honor to you, dear medical professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u185	Yuri Solomatin. Prepare Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u186	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. I want to return to the work of the Interim Commission of Inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, headed by Valérie Mishur, and whose activities relate to the influence of foreign Western funds on the internal political situation in Ukraine. The report of this commission, recently published from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has made some noise in both Ukraine and abroad. This is how a former dissident from Ukraine, Radio Freedom, has been pushing Western democracy in Ukraine for many years, in this Russian magazine commenting on this development and the work of this commission. Indeed, Western funds have always provided and supported moderate nationalists and Democrats. That's not surprising. In the West, the term “Russian” and “Soviet” have been synonymous for a long time. The West sees a direct danger to democratic processes in Ukraine in Russian imperialism. In addition, support for the Ukrainian opposition. Let us not be devious, Ukrainian bourgeois, legalist opposition to Western funds, as a result of the fact that the contacts of these funds with Ukraine have often been secured through Ukrainian diaspora, Western diaspora, Canadian, American and Australian diaspora. As a result of the involvement of the Ukrainian Western diaspora, the balance to be expected from Western funds is being violated. What is the balance here? What are you talking about? The Western funds continue this act! By supporting democratic processes, it focuses its assistance on the opposition moderately nationalist forces! It's actually half-fascist. And they are called moderately nationalistic forces, which is certainly not an objective position. In view of the presidential elections to be held in late November, the majority of Western funds are now focusing on ensuring the transparency of the elections. What's "transparency"? Let's see what these funds created in Yugoslavia and Georgia? Here's the transparency! On the other hand, the support of the same Ukrainian nationalist forces by Western non-governmental organizations cannot be overlooked. And that's what he calls all the help that he can get. So when I talk to the radio audience, I want to say, don't believe our Ukrainians! Don't believe the right bourgeois-nationalist opposition! This is the fifth column of the United States of America. Let them go where their benefactors are! Fifth Column is no place in our Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u187	Bogdan Kostinuk, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u188	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. I would like to welcome all the medical personnel with their professional holiday, and I want to assure you that today's clearly underpaid level of health workers' salaries will only actually increase once this clan's oligarchic regime is removed from power as a result of future presidential elections. Even after "Our Ukraine" was able to get out of the shadows yesterday, even though some of these hidden eight billion, the government has just set a 13 percent wage. And that's clearly not enough, because it takes at least 30. And if you take all the funds, the small costs that are allocated to the medical sector across Ukraine, 20 percent of these funds went to the government's Phoefania, and it's known that the most impoverished people are being treated. The rest of the funds were largely donated to meet the needs of members of the so - called presidential majority. But that's not what I'm talking about, because this week there's going to be graduation dinners in public schools, and thousands of graduates are going to be tested, and they're going to have flowers and sincere greetings. And then in higher education institutions, different: good and different, state and non-state, private and unclear, which, accredited or not yet accredited, because maybe there's a delegation from college that's wrong to the uncle ministry. In general, the subject of higher education deserves some serious discussion. As everywhere, there are double standards, especially with regard to school fees. What is worthy of this is the fact that, after a prospective graduate of a preliminary examination from a profile subject, the instructor concluded that the department of government procurement would be difficult for him to study and would be hard for him to study and he would be able to learn on a paid basis. But both the pay and the state department issue the same diplomas as the specialist. With regard to the entrance to higher education institutions, it is desirable to touch on the subject of entrance to the schools of the graduates of rural schools. These graduates, not taking into account some of the very qualified before the opening exams, lose their peers from city schools at the level of general training. In general, it is not their fault that rural schools cannot provide a proper level of general training in relation to the unsatisfying level of the material and technical base of the educational process. And to those in the private media who are actively reporting on economic growth and other successes, in the paws of government success, I recommend that more often be in rural schools, the more so that many of those who hold high positions in the country are residents of the village. Once again, it's clear that today's government isn't in the village, not in the school, it's constantly struggling with all kinds of so-called crises -- grain, that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u189	National Deputy Domansky, prepare for Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u190	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! At the end of May this year, a delegation from the Inter-Parliamentary Relations Group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Syrian Arab Republic at the invitation of the head of the Parliamentary Association of the Syrian-Ukrainian Friendship of Dr. was on an official visit to the Syrian Arab Republic. This was the first visit by the Ukrainian parliamentary delegation to the Syrian Arab Republic. The purpose of the visit is to continue contact with representatives of the Parliamentary Association of Syrian-Ukrainian Friendship, to develop political, economic, educational, cultural ties for the further prosperity of the Ukrainian and Syrian peoples. During the visit, a number of official meetings took place with Syrian political, state, and business officials. We met with the head of the National Assembly of Syria, Dr. Mahmoud Al Abrash. During this meeting, he appreciated the statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the situation in the Middle East around Syria. We also had a meeting with the members of the Parliamentary Association of Friendships of Syria and Ukraine, where we exchanged ideas that further development of our relationship should have provided a legislative basis for the development of our relationship. We met with the Deputy Secretary-General of the Arab Party. The rebirth of Abdullah Ahmar. "The relations between our countries -- he said -- have good traditions, there's progress, there's a higher-level relationship." We also had a meeting, more faithfully, we visited the Dutch Heights. And I have to tell you that we saw the barbarity that Israel left after 1973 when they left this part of Syria. The city of Kunatra is under ruins today. This is the barbarism of the twentieth century, of which people should speak and demand the release of the Dutch heights by the Israelites and their return to Syria. We met with the Minister of Finance, head of the Syrian part of the International Ukrainian-Syrian Commission on Trade and Economic and Scientific Cooperation by Muhammad Hussein. He noted that in part we use our opportunities for our economics. One to three trade relations between our countries, investments in Syria and Ukraine in Syria are very slow. There are many obstacles where our side should do. It's a decision. I would like to point out that we have met with the President of the Federation of the Syrian Chamber of Commerce, Dr. Rabet Shalah. But it was our responsibility to meet with the President of the Syrian Arab Republic, Bashar Assad. The president believes that a violation of peace and tranquillity in the Middle East will have what effect worldwide. He says, "Unfortunately, there is no political perspective in the United States. They lead the world from one problem to another. The U.S. is a big developed country, everyone wants out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u191	I see. Mikhail Kuzmich! Mikhail Rodionov, faction of the Company. Get ready for Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u192	Communist faction, Rodionov. I would like to answer some of the questions raised by the professionals who, this week, have been taking care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of amendments to the 2004 budget. They are known to all. They said, "When is this mess going to end?" That's what they write. "Almost a million pedagogical workers and students of Ukrainian vocational and technical education finish their academic year in 2003-2004 in extreme conditions, living outside the poverty line, under insufficient budgetary funding, which has been blessed by the parliamentary-government coalition. Most of our disciples are starving because, contrary to the law on government education, they are not being fed. The salaries of teachers, the maintenance standards for orphans and disabled persons remain outside the poverty line. Since 1997, payments under article 57 of the Education Act have not been fully paid. And of course, when we were communicating, they said, "When is this going to end?" I, the distinguished listeners and the professionals of the trade, of course, have a lot to say about the reasons, but today, when reading the "political weekly of power politics," how strangely did I find an amazingly strong answer to this question, "Why did this happen?" The article “Children — Flowers of Life and They Are Getting More Expensive” reads: “There are not many more than 15,000 public kindergartens in our country, of which 230 are private”. [[Original read: ……]] [[reading literally]] Dear radio listeners! That's what you're thinking: Public kindergartens are private. That's what they say, not in the eyebrows, but in the eye. Indeed, all the problems of Ukraine throughout public life and in all sectors are due to the replacement of socialist public property for private property. The essence of this replacement is that at one time all the public and the general public have become private but private, not every citizen, but a separate group of individuals. That is why the Communist Party programme and the President's programme, which must be turned around by all the peoples, must return to the socialist path of development. As for the prosecution of one of the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u193	Alexei Malinowski, faction of Soccer. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u194	Alexei Malinovsky, Socialist faction, Cherkaščina Dear radio listeners! First of all, I'm talking to you and the crickets in particular. During the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has consistently made public the facts of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine by senior officials of the State, violations of human rights by law enforcement agencies, corruption in local governments, moral and even physical pressure on leaders of private and public institutions. Socialists today talk about criminal acts of power, with authorities at all levels beginning with the President of Ukraine and ending with local leaders. Privatization has led to the theft of the last profitable enterprises, with different appetites. The President's family is today the Chrysalis. What about tomorrow? Local clans use budget funds for purposes other than their own, or they purchase equipment at the same cost several times as they do in Cherkaščina. It's like they're in agony before they go trying to get what they can. Mr. President, and whoever's next to you, don't blow it. You know, you can forgive even this. Eat. Maybe you'll get sick of overeating. But the people of Ukraine will never forgive Kuchmi for the fact that in his presidency the state has become a zone where the laws of thieves are in force. Let me give you just one example. Catherinapil(?) district, Jaroshov’s sugar plant. I quote the removal from the district attorney's letter of November 3, 2003. "During the period from 10 December 2001 to 13 June 2003, in the event of the resolution of the bankruptcy procedure of the Jaroshov sugar plant, officials from the sugar financial and industrial company of Kiev have deliberately declared the financial failure of the plant, to meet the requirements of creditors and to impose a budget obligation that has caused damage to creditors and to the state for nearly 5 million dollars. [[Underlining]] According to this fact, on 24 October 2003, a criminal case was committed on the basis of the crime provided for in article 218 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine." And you think what? Nothing. During this time, the factory was cut to shreds -- everything sold, people stayed with nothing, and the criminal case was going on. Question to the Henprosecutor's Office. Who's behind this Kiev financial and industrial company. Similar examples in Churchill, in Ukraine, hundreds. The Socialist Party sees an immediate change through corrupt systems of power, a desire for criminal responsibility, a criminalization of the state’s leadership today. If we want to put order in the state, we don't have another way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u195	Ivan Hare, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u196	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Supreme Council adopted amendments to the State Budget Act 2004. What does this decision symbolize? First of all, it symbolizes that the government finally admitted that "Our Ukraine" was telling the truth when it said that the government had hidden 10 billion dollars from the people. And yesterday the government agreed to give some of that money to the people. And I think it's our common victory with those citizens who believed in the representatives of our Ukraine who were taking care of the Cabinet of Ministers along with us, who were talking about this problem. So if people go together, if people hold on to us, victory will always be, and this victory will be used for the benefit of their people. But yesterday's decision has shown that the government will not speak out of its policy of concealing income, because already the figures we have indicate that the revenue from privatization is actually greater than that provided for by law. So once again, the government is going to use this budget to bribe voters in the presidential elections. And again, I want to turn to our citizens, that the citizens of honor, you've taken billions of dollars, and they want you to turn back as a bribe just a penny. So don't buy this government policy, support honest presidential candidates. I was recently in the Poltav region in the fifth district, which is Kaliwski, Chutovsky, Novossenjarski, Kobeljak and Masiv region, where elections are being made to the Supreme Council. And I've seen the brutal policy of the authorities, and there's a total bribe going on. So they're putting up some kind of counters, so they're delivering some kind of wood, they're promising golden mountains, but no one wants to see that the villagers don't have to do that. Give the villagers a normal price for milk. If only 50 copies are given per liter today, will those 10 or 30 bracelets be saved today? They won't. And we have examples of solving these problems. I was in Yushchenka's government as minister, and I know that our government then raised the prices of beetroot, raised the prices of grain, and raised the prices of milk, and people in the village first received the money. That's why I'm going to those 151 constituencies in Poltava and I'm saying. Dear friends, vote for whoever solves your problems, vote for who Victor Yushchenko supports. And don't vote for the demagogies that feed you today. I just want to say that we're going to win together. We'll have a good life with you if we drop this mob if we don't let people who just think how to rob people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u197	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u198	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka's faction "Our Ukraine", head of the Subcommittee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, the distinguished medical community of Ukraine, the distinguished electorate. Let the faction of Victor Yushchenk "Our Ukraine" and the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood welcome you to Medical Day and wish everyone good health, physical and moral. Physical, because you have to stand up, morally, because you have to make the right choice. Dear friends, on the eve of a professional holiday, would like to bow low to people in white robes who perform Hippocratic oaths so as to give God to each one in his place — either an official or a civil servant or a political leader or simply an ordinary entrepreneur — to carry out his duties. Dear friends, on the eve of a professional holiday, I would like to take an X - ray of the health - care situation. This week, Parliament, unfortunately, did not uphold the law on compulsory public health insurance. What happened? What has happened is that one part of Parliament that is awaiting the return of ours, and this will happen when Dnipro goes back, has not supported for political reasons. The death rate was 2.5 million. For the last 10 years. Of these, 20 percent are due to the lack of access to medical care. What is it? The worse the better. Let it be on your conscience. The second part of Parliament has given priority to lobbyism and economic interests to the general public, because there is no greater interest than the health of the nation. I hope so. I thought Parliament was going to go back to the bill anyway. Maybe a single fund will be created, maybe a single insurance contribution will be created -- from accident to health, but there is no alternative to that, because 2006 will be the year when Parliament will have to stand before the electorate and not report on economic interests, first of all, on social interests. I am also convinced that this is a privilege for all who want Europeanism. The whole of Europe is in insurance medicine, and business is developed or not. These are privileges for those who want social justice. Because health insurance is an expression of social justice and solidarity. This week, the medical community witnessed such an interesting focus, when, like a magician, the government pulled out the 10 billion that "Our Ukraine" was talking about, showed them here in this rostrum, in front of our electorates, and sort of took them back and hid them again. I hid it because of those almost eight billion budget deficits. which are allocated to all social needs, only 1.1 goes to practically social needs. Of these, 20 percent were said to be Phoephania. Is 20 percent of our citizens being treated there? Well, it's literally over. And how much does it take on the power ministers, on the power structures? And please tell me, the real force is the most important, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u199	Stepan Cloud, the block of Julia Timoshenko, prepare for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u200	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! In recent times, the criminal mafia in Ukraine has unleashed a total forceful attack on the interests and social, cultural, and political rights of the Ukrainian people. They are carried out in brutal and demonstration form. The week that passed was especially full of terrible events. It began with another big robbery: in the form of so-called privatization in the Ukrainian people, it was stolen and donated to the kushmian oligarchs of the Ukrainian metallurgy flag, which produces 20 percent of the metal production that each year gave over 1 billion 200 million dollars to the state treasury, which exports its produce to 84 countries of the world. This crime was committed in an organized manner, with the participation of officials, the government, the State Property Fund and so - called judges, and, of course, under the patronage of President Kuchma. The second crime occurred yesterday when mob officials in this room approved budget changes, by the way, in violation of all legislative procedures. These so-called electorates of the people gave carte blanche to the governing regime to strengthen the power of criminal oligarchs and to strengthen the police state, for the power structures that serve the criminal regime, there was one billion dollars, and in order to carry out the 57th article of the Education Act and pay the debts to teachers, there was no money. Nor was there sufficient funding available for health workers. The criminal regime does not need the nation to be spiritually and physically healthy, making it easier to keep it in the toilet. And finally, the third event is another provocation against the leader of the BUT faction and the Fatherland party, the so-called submission of consent to the arrest of Yulia Timoshenko. And that's why, because Julia Timoshenko is consistently and uncompromisingly fighting the robbery regime. The Ukrainian people may, and should, stop the infamous plundering regime by their will, a powerful public-organised speech against the laudable anti-national regime. Long live the Ukrainian Revolution!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u201	Anatoly Orzhachowski. Let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, voters! The privatisation of national property has led to the division of the population into owners and disadvantaged people in Ukraine. Eight energy companies are known to belong to individual oligarchs close to the government’s leadership. Modern energy monopolies are exerting incredible pressure on the population, self - control for personal gain. I have repeatedly had to put to the attention of the executive organs of the state the invalidity of the operation of the "Hersonoblanergo" VAT. However, the government deliberately defended the private owner by forgetting the interests of the population, the communities. This is confirmed by the voter’s complaints. The existing problem was also highlighted in reference to the authorities of the Hersonian District Council’s own deputies. The result is not done, and the campaign to destroy the newly established rural utilities continues. To keep councils and utilities dependent on them, their energy sources impose debt on their time and owners. Here is just one characteristic letter that came from the inhabitants of the village of Gornostivka. People rightly ask, "How long will it take for power suppliers in the person of VAT "Hersonoblanergo" to abuse people? What are the laws of dragons when fines of five times the size of a penny are for a reason and for no reason? Many of the inhabitants of the Hornostiv region had a local REM of several thousand. From what income should it be paid, and for what: a meager salary or a meager pension? Someone has to put everything in place. Is there a need for revolutionary anger on the part of the population? For the state, we know that electricity costs 4 or 5 copies per kilowatt. Private sells it to a population of 16 copies, and utilities sell it to 30. The last gesture of energy infuriated us so much that there is no word for it correctly. For nothing in the people is the saying, "Whom God is for whom men are for." In recent times, an attempt has been made to destroy the Gornostiev KPC. The only working organization in the village wants to make a mess of which the residents will run out of water, heat, and sanitation. According to an existing contract, the company pays the current payment at the proper time. Similar examples are found in other utilities in the area. The Presidential campaign is approaching. Someone needs the money. Why, though, is it vital for humans to do so? Residents in the area demand that the Supreme Council restore energy to state property, adopt a law on reprivatization, and impose moratoriums on power cuts from utilities to veterans and disabled people. I am sure that the initiators of the sale of Hersonoblnergo into the private hands of Mr. Yushchenk and the local district administration will remember for a long time and will vote for the representative of the Communist Party during the presidential election. [[in quotes]] And finally, I want to say, it's really nice to have some Communist representatives left in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-18-m0.u203	The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on 22 June 2004. Thank you.
