ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:58]] Registered -426 There are 426 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Lvivín Anatoly Ivanovich and Safiulin Ravil Safovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, applications and messages. I'm asking the factions and groups to file statements, and in the meantime, if there's no objection, I'm going to announce the parliamentary requests that have come, there's an enormous number of them. Is there no objection? With regard to our delegation’s hearing about the last PARJE session, we agreed to consider the matter on Friday morning at the Conciliation Council. Asadchev from procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm out of procedure. I wanted to ask you to give an order, and the MPs were handed out the materials of yesterday's extracurricular session. I'm talking about 150 deputies who have applied for and the order of the day that they asked for. I realize it was hard yesterday because there wasn't enough time, I guess. But today I thought they'd give us these materials, but we didn't get anything. Such a request is made that these materials be distributed to members of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u3	I ask the secretariat to give the heads of the MP factions and groups these materials, because there are 186 signatures of the national MPs. It's going to be a lot for every deputy. Share all materials with factions and groups. Dear colleagues, there have been requests from Ukrainian national deputies. I'm asking for your attention because there are so many on page 20. Groups of National Deputies - Tarasyuk, Karmazin, Zarubinsky - to the President of Ukraine regarding the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 29 November 2003 on measures to improve the effectiveness of the State's external political activities. [[only 25 deputies]] Since this is a request to the President, I am voting in favour of the request. [[10:05:38]] For 131 Request not supported. Lesia Tanjuk to the President of Ukraine on the appeal of Ukrainian heroes and culture masters to preserve the status of the state under the Kyiv State Operative Theatre. Because this is again a request to the President to vote in favour of the request. At least one third of the votes are required. [[10:06:10]] For-174 Request supported. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:32]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine for halting the construction of the strategic public value of the Dnipro-Donbas channel, the theft of state property in the form of channel equipment, especially in large scale, the use of personnel in dismantling equipment, the work of persons without appropriate contracts for work, the damage of black land areas, the abuse by individual representatives of the executive power of the Donetsk region in their official position. Alexander Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the delay in the issuance of salary payments to employees of the Lighthouse Municipal Company Luganskvodokal. Alexander Turchinov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the application of the average wage for 2002 at 306 dollars during the calculation of pensions. John Tomic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction of livestock and the sharp reduction in the purchase price of meat. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of debts from pedagogical workers pursuant to article 57 of the Education Act. Mary Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the removal of people from active displacement zones in the Tachiv region, as well as those affected by the 1998–2001 floods. Romana Tkacha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the state of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the issue of state ownership rights to land, certificates of land-paid rights and their circulation in respect of compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the award of land-use and circulation of agricultural land. Groups of National Deputies - Colonyari and Sulkowski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction of the response to a request from a group of National Deputies for a change in the driver's licence vouchers. Victor Yushchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of compliance with the requirements of law enforcement and the cessation of the abolition of the office in the area of the construction and operation of a unique landscape park, the National Sports Complex of the Olympics. Ivan Vernidubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing Sebastopol Military and Maritime Institute Nahimov to join the Kiev State Academy of Water Transport of the name Sagaidajdachny. Paul Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the ill-demeanour of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was later rehabilitated as well as members of their families. Jury Solomatin to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, in connection with the illegal re-profiling of the public centre of the University of Głuskova in Kiev to the shopping centre of Magellan and the hypermarket "Kraina". Alexander Pecklusenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2003 and some other legislative acts and the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 25 September 2003 on the protection of the interests of investors of the Slovenian Commercial Share Bank. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration for the verification of the legality and construction of a residence in the Zacarpathian Protective Area. Ivan Tomić is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Agriculture Act in part of the State Support for Farming. Oleg Panasovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the calculation of the fuel used from the state's material reserve. Catherine Samuelk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the transfer of the Hersonian irrigation system to the municipal property of local councils. Groups of National Deputies: Bogotirova, Shurma-to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the President's decree of 25 March 2003 on measures to improve the interaction of executive authorities with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Georgia Manchulenka, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the information programme for the general educational institutions, the computerization of rural schools for 2001-2003 in the Tismian constituency of Montenegro. Paul Mobchana to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to execute a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommending parliamentary hearings to honor the memory of the victims of the 1932-1933 famine in part of financing the construction of the memorial to the victims of the famine. Anatolia Átnajka is the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andriy Klav, on the thermal supply of housing in the city of Makiyevka Donetsk Region. Stanislava Gurenko is vice-premier of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco Minister, regarding the review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyrovograd region to social protection of war veterans. Sergija Gmiri is the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andrija Klav, for the submergment of the village of Pavlik Lugansk in connection with the closure of coal enterprises. Groups of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the selection of a precautionary measure before the judge of the Raven City Court, suspected of committing a crime that resulted in the death of a resident of the city of Raven. [[Red, Alexiyuk, and Shirko]] Georgia Bourke to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of civil rights in the village of Andriyuk of the region of Slovenia. Igor Nosalika to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the illegal pressure of a national deputy assistant by individual employees of the Ukrainian Security Service. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the 1995 trial of Oleg Semez. Anatolia Ústavajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation at the Friends' Farfort Ranok Company of the Donetsk Region. Mikoli Rudzkowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Prosecutor's Office of the Cherniewec Region to refuse to violate the criminal case against the editorial and publishing complex "Desnian Justice". Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the subject of gravity in the case of protection of the rights of shareholders of Skadovské society regarding officials, the Society of the "Twenty-first Age" of the district of Sherson. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not responding to the Special Supervisory Commission's request for privatisation on the legality of the issue of bonds issued by the Open Shareholder Society. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the Abolition of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Order No. 1217 of 22 November 2003. [[Colonies, Sulkowski, and Others]] Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Culture and Art, Minister of Environmental Protection, Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture for the verification of the facts of illegal construction in the city of Poltava of an underground multi-profile complex in an area of historical and cultural heritage of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the verification of the theft of budgetary resources, particularly largely by the head of the Skuri District State Administration of the Kyiv region, by abuse of his official status as a participant in the elimination of the consequences of the CHAES accident. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation in the rental of property rations. Mikhail Poljančić to the Attorney General of Ukraine on 18 May 2003 at the Symchera Academy in Uzhgrad. Mary Markusz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of Leonid Oparin’s conviction. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General in connection with the improper investigation by the Sosnick district department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Chernigiv area of the road traffic accident criminal case. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the recognition by the state of the technogeneous species of beneficial fossils of shale from the Dniprov Metal Cellhouse of the Dnipropetrov region. David Zwania to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of criminal law by the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Donetsk Region in the investigation of a criminal case involving a former judge of the Kalinov district of Gorlovka, District Court of Gorlovka. Vladimir Petrenko to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the weight in the organization of treatment and in the change of categories of disability to the pensioner of the city of Suma. John Mihowich to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine for the improvement of the entry regime on Zakarpat. Igor Griniva to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, on the announcement of "One Only Ukraine" on human subconscious. Dmitry Rudzikowski to the minister of environmental protection for the construction of artesian wells in the city of Bila Church. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for refusing to grant the citizens of the city of Příluka to the status of a participant in the Great Homeland War. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to execute the decision of the Hmelnicki City Court to collect debts on a salary for the benefit of the teachers of the Hmelnicki district. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the violation by employees of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Law on the Elimination of Driving Rights. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the status of the implementation of the information program for the general educational institutions of computerization of rural schools in the Hersonian region. Oleg Panasovski to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Director General of Cruise Stations, concerning the construction of a gas pipeline to the city of Debaltsze Donetsk Region. Vladimir Puzakov to the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine for the annulment by the College of Judges of the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal of the Land Court of Kirovgrad district on the right of ownership of the premises of the plant of technical animal service. Vladimir Onishuk to the head of the High Council of Justice on the facts of the illegal actions of Judge Primorski of the Odessa District Court. Mikli Tomenka to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy of Ukraine on the verification of violations of the laws on advertising during the broadcast by TV company "1+1" boxing match between Vitali Klick and Kirk Johnson on December 7, 2003. Igor Greeniv to the head of the National Television and Radio Board on the rightfulness of the "One Only Ukraine" advertisement on the eve of the 2002 parliamentary elections. Paul Mouchcan to the Kiev City Head for the unsatisfactory provision of shelter for students at the Kyiv National College of Estradic and Circus Art. Groups of National Deputies: Aloshin, Karpov, Klimpush to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the participation of the developers of the State Science and Technology Program "The Image Computer" in the work of the "Intellectual Information Technology" company. Catherine Samuel to the head of the Herson district government regarding the provision of schools in the Herson region of coal. Lesia Tanjuk to the head of the Dnipropetrov district government for the illegal disbandment of the city’s technical library and mineral museum in Krivi Rig. Valentina Semenyuk to Kiev City Head on speeding up the transfer of the dormitory across Redwater Street to municipal property and changing the status of the house. Igora Ostasa to the Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for the allocation in the first quarter of 2004 of funds for treatment in Kiev of 36 children with hypophysic nanism. The National Deputies' Groups Stretovic, King, others to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of Ukrainian transport minister's official status and its legal evaluation. Georgia Bourke to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Rasvet mine and the Kirov Mesquikonka mine regarding residents of the No. 1 town of Kirovska Donetsk region. Alexander Pecklusenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003 and some other legislative acts on the repayment of debts for the contributions of natural persons, creditors of the Slovenian Commercial Share Bank. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for debt on salary to the workers of the Crsopile Furniture District of Suma. Vladimir Wojsza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the closure of a criminal case concerning an open-ended Association of Actionaries of the Republic Insurance Campaign "Crim Oranta". Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the purpose of torture against members of the Komsomolian organization of the city of Odessa during interrogations in detention facilities that led to the death of people. Vladimir Mystrishkin to the Attorney General for the conduct of official investigations into the violation of the law by officials in the Winnick region. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Economics and European Integration for the granting of a border state inspection of quarantine plants in the Zakartat area of temporary permission for the provision of maintenance and consulting services. Vladimir Petrenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the removal of obstacles in the handling of civil suit at the Trostian district court of the Sum district. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Education and Science of the Tachiv City Head, the head of the Tachiv District State Administration, the head of the Tachiv District Council for renting accommodation to the Techiv Department of the Uzhgorod State Institute of Informatics, Economics and Law. Gregory Bourke to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the facts, for the non-admissibility of facts in the area of the right to participate in criminal matters as advocates of the defendants and representatives of the victims of the crime in the courts of the Donetsk region. Anatolia Orzhachowski, head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine, on the irregular state of telephone communication in the village of Kalanczak in the Hersson region. Julius Timoshenko, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the return of funds to the closed stock company MontageBudget, the creditor of the commercial commercial agro-industry bank "Ukraine" and the state of the accounts with the loans of the third queue. Vladimir Mytrishina to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation into the violation of effective legislation by officials of the State Tax Inspectorate in Vinnice. Groups of National Deputies Timoshenko, Turkey, only 25 National Deputies, to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the political revenge of the Volin District State Administration and the law enforcement authorities in the area for the opposition of the Ukrainian National Deputy Eugene Kirilchuk. Vladimir Puzakov to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the financing of the construction of the Sofia-Novo Ukraine pipeline of the Kirovograd region. Groups of national deputies Taran, Zubov and others to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the restoration of the status of a higher educational institution with the right of a legal person of the Kiev College of Liaison. Boris Tarasyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the event at Borispol Airport on December 1, 2003. Alexander Turchinov to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Constitutional Court on the appeal of the Berdichov City Court on the compliance of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act with part of the minimum and maximum pension of the age of article 446 of the Constitution of Ukraine. People’s Deputies — Red, Alexiyuk, Shirko - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction of water supply levels in the city of Equine and the settlements in the region. Mikola Polishtuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of stopping the production of pharmaceuticals using alcohol. Mikoli Polishchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the irrational, unrhythmic allocation of funds for the purchase of medicines, waste materials for the health sector. Gregory Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient funding by the Ministry of Health of Rural Hospitals. Group of National Deputies - Assadchev, Crnvolenko and others - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to aggravate the environmental situation in Kiev. All requests received have been made. I would like to ask members of the people to follow the rules and procedures governing the filing of parliamentary inquiries. From Mikola Kravchenko's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u4	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Two moments like this. Is there any point in amending the Rules to proclaim only the President and the Prime Minister? And to the others, directly so that you have the right to sign as a parliamentary request. And that will shorten the time and simplify the procedure. If that's possible. I don't know. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I took the floor for this. Yesterday, there were two bills on the agenda approved, which, in particular, 4507, there were two requests by deputies for the deletion of rights. I have this bill. The Conciliation Board agreed that it should be considered as a matter of priority. The Committee considered it. There is a request for him to put to a vote on Friday and Tuesday because the appeal against the decision of the Attorney General is now in Minust. And then we'll have a conflict again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u5	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u6	And the second question. 3539. I'm the author of the mining bankruptcy bill. So we put a moratorium on the bankruptcy of the mines. The Act expired. The bill, 3539, is on the agenda, but until the first March if we do not accept it, there is no point in adopting it further. It is requested to consider it as a matter of priority also on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u7	Thank you. I ask the secretariat to prepare these materials so that we can look at them, proposals for us to consider them at the conciliatory council. We need a decision from the Conciliation Council. As far as the questions are concerned. Dear colleagues, you know that there is an explanation by the Constitutional Court that the requests of the President of Ukraine are being voted on, that requests by national deputies to other central authorities are not being voted on, but are being made in the session room. That is how we are obliged to pronounce them. Let's go from factions and groups with statements, information. Victor Pinzenik of the faction "Our Ukraine" has the word to prepare Vladimir Puzakov of the Communist faction. I ask my respectable colleagues to abide by the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u8	A statement from the faction of our Ukraine. "Dear compatriots! We have witnessed how under the pressure of the absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens, of the public opinion and of the international community, the active actions of opposition the authorities have had to retreat in the most fundamental part of the constitutional reform they have adopted in relation to the key value of the existing Constitution -- the right of the people to choose power. We are also pleased that there is a chance to preserve the basis for the formation of an independent judiciary, the permanent election of judges. But that doesn't mean it will. We understand that this is not a victory yet, but a step towards it, because this power will act boldly and cynically, because it is important for it to save itself, stolen from Ukrainian citizens, the money, pensions and wages. This testifies to the way in which attempts have been made to accept changes to the Constitution and to legislate to a bill that does not conform to the rules of the Constitution, the Rules of the Supreme Council, European values, democracy and parliamentaryism. The illegality of voting for amendments to the Constitution is recognised by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as set out in the statement of the European Union, which is supported by all European countries. The "Our Ukraine" faction claims that we will never agree with the fact that voting in the Supreme Council takes place without discussing the bill, without familiarizing the MPs with the content of the proposed changes, without taking into account the positions of the political forces, with the raising of hands without even trying to calculate their number. We cannot accept the facts when the Constitutional Court of Ukraine became the branch office of the President’s Administration. The faction "Our Ukraine" states that we stand and stand up for the position that we have stated during political discussions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All draft amendments to the Constitution are to be discussed. And they have to be voted in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the exception of laws that restrict citizens' rights and freedoms. We have stated and stated our readiness to support political reform. But we cannot accept the pseudo-reform that is being carried out illegally, the reform that is the true goal of preserving the existing system of power. The faction will continue to do its utmost to prevent the Ukrainian State from being separated from the standards of democracy and Ukrainian citizens from the European standards of prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u9	Vladimir Puzakov of the Communist faction. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u10	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Dear radios, you once again have heard the lies of our Ukrainian faction because they did everything they could to ensure that the reform did not move forward and the Supreme Council did not work. But people are interested in other things to this day, and in the end, it's all come to an end, as many retirees say. The concerned care of the Cabinet of Ministers for the recalculation of the average pensions since 1 January has become apparent. Another Kuchmow regime affair has been implemented. This is how the presidential fight against poverty has turned out to be a struggle against the poor, since there is no secret for the Government that more than 70 per cent of the population of Ukraine have not lived in the past year but have existed, their earnings and pensions are below the subsistence minimum twice. The worker waited for an average wage of 376 bracelets and the pensioners for a solid pension allowance. The media spent a year on pension reform, on improving the lives and lives of each pensioner, and the President himself and the Prime Minister strongly assured the pensioners that Santa Claus would bring a generous Christmas present to each veteran of war and labor and would bring exactly the value from 1 bracelet 67 copies to 6 bracelets. That's what our respectable pensioners got in the allowance drawers, who won't even buy the simplest medicine for the allowance, because it was suddenly traveling twice, even though the government promised that there wouldn't be an increase in the cost of medical equipment. And this is because more than 8 million pensioners have not even received a symbolic allowance for miserable pensions, so why this reform? For whom it has been done, for any reform must be beneficial to the people, and we have the opposite, and again the Prime Minister will say, “They want as well as they always do.” And it is not clear why pension reform is taking place for the poor and for the black. In the first pension of more than 2,000, and in the blacks, as Mr. Kravchuk once said, “we have what we have”, you can see that the current bourgeois rulers, led by Yanukovitch under the patronage of Kuchma, quickly learned to “hang a paw on our ears” or “pull our brains” to millions of simple and honest people. Only to the profound regret is it offensive for our people. How blindly can we trust the bourgeois authorities and the sweet promises that cost the common people?Oh, my God! From this rostrum, I tell everyone who hears me that the Communist faction did not vote for this pension genocide. We knew knowingly and warned that the anti-national authority of Ukraine would do just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Igor Shurma, please, from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u12	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The faction of SDPU(o) wants to stop at a question related to the restructuring of the health system. On December 12, 2003, a bill was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the people’s deputies of Ukraine, Franchuk, Bogatirirova, Grigorović, on a general obligation of state social health insurance at number 4505. The faction believes that this bill is the most important and must be considered first, because its adoption will finally allow, firstly, the provision of constitutional guarantees for the provision of free medical care. Second, to strengthen the socio-economic responsibility of health institutions. Thirdly, strengthen control over the quality of medical care. And the fourth is to provide constant funding to the industry. The people of Ukraine have long been waiting for it, and it is sad that the lobbying of corporate interests by insurance companies by the higher legislator of the State has lost the opportunity to complete a long-term bill in September of last year, which would have resulted in a substantial improvement in the financial filling of the health sector and the introduction of new forms and methods of work in health facilities. I would like to stress that the United Social Democrats regard this bill as the basis for reforming the country's health system and call on everyone to refer to this bill as the most important one for our nation today. Because the current level and quality of medical care does not satisfy both citizens and workers in the field. By supporting the bill, we would deprive the Ukrainian national deputies of the need to send their parliamentary requests to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, asking them to resolve the issue of providing qualified medical care to our electorate and to seek the necessary funds. Moreover, it is a matter of our civic position and, ultimately, our conscience. Today, the National Deputies, members of our committee, have proposed two alternative approaches to establishing a compulsory insurance system in Ukraine. Therefore, we believe that both health - care and health - insurance bills and compulsory State social insurance must be considered simultaneously by the Supreme Council. Otherwise, it will not only be neglecting the problems, needs and demands of citizens, it will be a violation of the Supreme Council Rules. Please take this into account in the drafting of the bill. I focus on this problem for the reason that last year's vote brought the problem to a political level. For example, I'll give you a vote on the block of "Our Ukraine." Five medical professionals voted in favour of the bill. Others did not take part in the vote. And my demand to publish the results of the vote in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine remains unfulfilled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u13	Stanislaw Nikolainko of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u14	Thank you. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! On January 28, this year, the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev approved that the release of the newspaper "Silski Novosti" be suspended for allegedly inflaming international hostility. It's a decision for the damage to both Ukrainians and Jews, to all the other nationalities that live in our country. The Ukrainian court went to such an unheard-of and audaciously banning the release of the most massive Ukrainian newspaper with 84 years of history without any convincing and competent motivation, a study of the scientific source base, without considering all the circumstances of publishing a controversial character to a judicial investigation that might be the subject of scientific and civic discussion, but not the judicial solution to the social problems that have accumulated recently in Ukraine. Judge Irina Saprikina has duly completed a list of those who stopped and banned the release of the newspaper "Silski News" for her 84-year-old history. The first was Adolf Hitler, who came to our land with a bloody war, and the second was the notorious HCHR. For the third time, it was closed by Leonid Kuchmi. A special taste of the verdict of the court is added by the motivation of the defendant during the trial, when he spoke to half a million subscribers of "The Village News" and millions of their readers, and they read the newspaper for almost three and a half million people, it's a dark mass that the newspaper seems to be pushing on another nationality. This includes not only cynicism but also the inflaming of ethnic opposition, contempt for work, for peasants, for those who feed Ukraine, and for whose work everyone lives, especially the same judges. However, we do not judge a person’s will. We are convinced of this verdict by today’s ruling regime. For 12 years, Ukraine has witnessed an uncompromising, fearless struggle against the regime. The high authority of the newspaper in our society is evidenced by the fact that its two representatives are elected by the national deputies and that it has the largest overpayment in the country. The president, according to undisputed documentary sources, personally managed the newspaper in 2000. He did not abandon his attempt to end it today. There is no doubt that the decision of the Shevchenkov Court is inspired by the Presidential Administration. People’s hands are said to bury the heat. On behalf of all the opposition forces, from all those who love democracy and the future of Ukraine, we claim to the authorities: get off the dirty hands of "The Village News! We urge the President not to embarrass himself again in front of the world with a newspaper that serves its own people honestly. And to the representatives of the country’s judiciary, we demand that you do not despise yourself by ordering approvals, by agreeing between the regime of fraud and the criminal clans, by serving the law, not the rulers!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u15	Julia Timoshenko from the Julia Timoshenko Faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I'm not speaking to Ukrainian citizens right now, because I want to give you a message that our performances are not being broadcast on the radio right now. And that's why Mr. Shurmi and all the other representatives of the majority who have already been pained for the people of the microphone and are still going to be hurt for the people, relax, you can't be hurt today, the people can't hear it. But I'd like to turn around. I think the next step is turning off and microphones, and that's the last step. And that's why I want to talk to people without any kind of, let's say, just talk about how things are going to unfold in Ukraine and Ukraine after the reform becomes a reality. And I'm addressing my peers with my own expert evaluation, and I'm not branding anyone there, blaming some factions, people, definitely not. How will circumstances unfold? First. The reform will be voted on. The President, who will be elected in 2004, will have no authority, because those powers that are written down there: the dissolution of Parliament or, for example, the National Security and Defence Council -- these are like nuclear weapons, the extraordinary things that can't be managed by the country -- they're usually not used. After constitutional reform has been carried out, in 2004 Parliament has a majority of three political and financial clans, 226 without communists, and no socialists will be assured. After they have voted for constitutional reform, a hundred percent will be amended by the Proportional Elections Act to the Supreme Council. We know clearly that a few phrases will be sufficient after voting the amendments to the Constitution in order to make the proportional law conditionally major. And then, and we all know with you, both Communists and Socialists and "Our Ukraine" that in the majority system, you and I will not be able to spend any human beings with you when they take the case properly. And there won't be many other majors here. The next thing we're going to have with you is the Prime Minister, who will be appointed by 226 votes again without communists and without socialists. Because I want to remind you that Natalia Mikhailna Vitrenko has also handled power before the elections to Parliament: giving money, giving office, anything but to take action against the Communists, against the Socialists, and destroying you. And then all of Natalia's promises became her outsidership. And you and I are going to have the same result. If the Prime Minister of this majority is appointed or preserved in 2004, by 2006, we will not be preparing for parliamentary elections, but will be preparing completely different people. And I want to assure you that you and I are simply opening the way for the political and financial groups to put their government in Ukraine safely once and for all. And when the argument is that you and I are not going to win the presidential election, but the government is going to win, then we don't have to fight for it, we're going to lose our last chance to fight. It's, you know, write it down, Mom, straight to captivity, we don't plan to fight you. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u17	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u18	So I want to say that we, our faction, will act consistently so that this reform does not become a reality, not because we are against democratization, but against giving power to the clans forever with our hands. How will we fight? This is an application to the Constitutional Court, a court of general jurisdiction, tomorrow will be done. And whoever comes into office as President of Ukraine, and is willing to be a person of opposition, these votes will be lifted. And I urge you to be sound in mind about these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you that the broadcast is happening. Dear National MPs, regarding the replica, I am reading to you, please, we have agreed to follow the rules: "If the MP thinks that the speaker or the Head of the meeting misinterprets his words or actions, he may, in writing, address the Head at the meeting with a request to give him the floor to explain or comment," followed by the text. So the word will be neither "our Ukraine", nor the Social Democratic Party. Let's work on the Rules. All of it! All those who signed up for the presentation made their applications. One Rules for All are now in force. Let's make a deal. All of it! A draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on long-term cooperation on the use of the Cylon-4 rocket at the Alcatar launch centre is being announced. Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, the conclusion of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine signed a treaty with the Federal Republic of Brazil on 21 October 2003 on the use of the Cylon-4 rocket at the Alkantar launch centre. This is a large-scale project that celebrates Ukraine and our committee asks all colleagues to support and enact legislation on its ratification. The implementation of this law will greatly enhance Ukraine's international cooperation in the use of space for peaceful purposes, enhance its image and create an international legal basis for the implementation of this large-scale project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Any questions to the committee head? Please sign up for three minutes. Please. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear George Korniyovich! There is no doubt that the faction supports the ratification of this treaty. But there is one question. This article 9 of the Treaty establishes customs and tax benefits for the established Ukrainian-Brazilian society to carry out this programme. So it's an enterprise that means whether or not the joint venture is going to re-initiate those financial flows that will not be monitored and the budget or others will be used for other purposes accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u23	Of course, it will be impossible to guarantee that no one will have a place. But these are very specific materials and equipment that are not necessary to provide launch services. So with proper control, and we have state-export control, it has to guarantee that we don't allow violations in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u24	Yes, please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u25	Thank you. I'm curious, Your Honor, a few questions. First. First. This project is called a common Ukrainian-Brazilian project, which is essentially because rocket launchers, as we're explaining, are common manufacturing. Are similar legislative reconciliations taking place in Russia in this regard? And will such preferences be created by the same Ukrainian-Brazilian company in Russia? Because, in principle, I don't understand these preferences either. Because when it comes to sharing space and space exploration, it's understandable. And when tax benefits are given, it's less understandable. And the next. Why did President Kuchmi have to go to Brazil to sign, well, in principle, a private agreement? This is a task that we have the right committees and services. It was a pear walk, was it necessary, as you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u26	First. It's about an agreement to create a ground complex called Cyclone-4 at the Alkantar launch center to provide launch services, which is about the Ukrainian-Brazilian agreement. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to the motivations that the head of state was guided by during his visit to Brazil, this question must probably be addressed to the President of Ukraine. I have absolutely no connection with the conclusion of this covenant. And then, I wouldn't underestimate the meaning of this contract. This is a very important agreement, which essentially means our breakthrough in this very important area.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u27	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear George Korniyovich, I have conflicting thoughts when I read this project in detail. I was surprised that you reported him so quickly today. That's why I have a question. Did you not foresee the possibility of considering making a decision on a second reading? Because the government has not provided any justification for the income that Ukraine will have, this is not the case in the contract. Alkankar-Cyclone-Space is a stock company. And what's interesting is that it's three years of implementation and six years of investment since the beginning of the complex and three years since its inception. It's either that or... The question is 150 million dollars. "Right ownership" -- look, the parties are retaining equal ownership rights to a jointly built land complex at the launch center. [[Article 6]] But it won't be in our territory. And so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u30	Don't you think it's necessary to demand from the government clear data on the income that Ukraine will have and the protection of Ukraine's interests at large, not as done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u31	Well, first reading and second reading, that's the matter of the Supreme Council, the case of the deputy corps. I think we have every reason to ratify this treaty. And relative to the additional arguments, I think they're sufficient at this stage. In fact, it's about the implementation of a very large project and the defined time frame when it's going to give revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u32	Georgi Korniyovich, thank you, time is up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to listen to the position of the National Space Agency? It is, isn't it? Well, they do. Please, the Director-General of the National Space Agency Negoda Alexander Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u33	Respectable national MPs, Ukrainian rocket launchers have confidently gone to the world's launch market, and the contribution to the total number of launches is 10 percent of the world's level. Today, five cosmic complexes of Ukrainian development and production are "Cyclem-2." Cyclone-3, Zenith-2, Zenith-3, Dnipro are providing launches of spacecraft from different countries around the world. During the years of independence, 70 rockets were launched, and nearly 130 spacecraft were put into orbit. Ukrainian rocket launchers are one of the best in the world in terms of the perfect design and level of automation of preparation for launch. Besides. In these complexes, the concepts of environmental cleanliness are being maximized, the absence of launch installations after start-up repairs, the high accuracy of orbital output. Cyclone rocket complexes have long been in operation and have become the most reliable rocket launchers in the world. The continuation of the life cycle of these launches is possible only if they are modernised and more competitive, including by linking to Equatorial Cosmodromes. Thus, the further share of the rocket is linked to the development of international cooperation. The search for suitable conditions showed that cooperation with Brazil, which has its own equatorial cosmodre under a set of parameters, has the highest priority among others. Two years ago, we started working together on such a project. It was also taken into account that in Brazil space activities are also referred to national priorities and are one of the leading places in the foreign economic policy of the country. That's why these and other arguments were the main arguments in the choice of a partner of the Cyclone-4 program. The project became one of the leading innovation projects of the state-wide space program adopted by the Supreme Council in October 2002. According to techno-economic considerations, the cost of developing a space missile complex is about $150 million, including the development of a Cylon rocket, which is projected by the space program, about $90 million and the joint creation of a ground special complex at the launch center -- about $52 million. The Brazilian side is working to create a common launch infrastructure, which is about $90 million, and Brazil’s responsibility is the same part of its contribution to the joint Ukrainian - Brazilian business. The project thus differs in its inter-State status, equal rights and responsibility of the parties -- Ukraine and Brazil. The project has been implemented for three years. 6 years of investment since the beginning of work to create a complex. Conduct market research. The services of this carrier rocket demonstrate the project's high competitiveness. And as of today, we have signed memoranda with international contractors on the launches of spacecraft on the Cyclone rocket.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u34	I see. Is there a question? Please sign in. Three minutes. Sign up for questions. On the board, please. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Basil Nadrag. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u35	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u36	Dear Alexander Aleksevic, it can only be welcomed that today we are beginning to develop such important activities as, in my view, high-tech cooperation in principle. Please tell us, as a specialist, whether or not this treaty will be implemented and, accordingly, a practical situation, as we have achieved in a number of ways, including in the aviation industry. We signed a contract. We had plans. We've talked about what's right and what's right. And after that, our plane didn't come to anyone's attention. Europe said it didn't suit them, they run their own. The Russians said he wasn't technically fit. And in the end, from a good, strong case, we got a "wheat." Now, I am interested in this issue, and I will not be able to see that everyone will be limited to signing a treaty. In fact, we will not be allowed to enter this market, including competitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u37	Thank you. I would like to answer this question and answer the previous question that has been challenged by Grigori Korneevich. The Cylon rocket carrier is exclusively a national missile, 98 per cent of the missile's aggregate systems are being developed and produced by Ukrainian enterprises. That's the first one. This is one of the most reliable and promising missiles in the world. We've already got dozens of orders to launch this rocket today. A similar project began to be developed by Russia and France, the deployment of the Soyuz rocket or the so-called seven rocket at the cosmodre, the French Cosmodrome. " in French Guiana. Already under way, with the establishment of an international base, the reconstruction work has been carried out, and Brazil and I are already doing this work in real and concrete terms. The rocket is upgraded through a space programme. It fully provides the necessary funding and composition. I would also like to emphasize that more than a hundred Ukrainian enterprises are involved in the establishment of this space missile complex. This is the loading of nearly 40,000 jobs by Ukrainian high-class professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u38	Omelian Pussy. I'd like to ask you a clear and clear question. And then you'll read us a lesson about the perspectives of the space industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u39	Please hand over Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u40	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u41	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Tell Brazil, please, far away, and the country with which Ukraine has always cooperated in the creation of such technology, in its use, alongside it. How can cooperation with Brazil affect our relationship with traditional space partners? Will it hurt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u42	It won't hurt. Russia was and remains a leading partner in the Ukrainian space field. It's healthy competition. I've already told you that Russia and France are organizing a similar project. Normal, healthy competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u43	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Andrew Schlell. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u44	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I'm going to try very hard, because this is a matter of ratification, which still needs to be discussed according to the rules, so we need to focus on that. First of all, of course, the only warning in this situation can be two more things -- income distribution, because Ukraine often becomes a poor relative. But in this ratification, in principle, this is not a cornerstone. I'm sure this observation will be heard here, at least it will be read. Because we have these kinds of projects in place, we have the Si Breeze example of sea launches. There, Ukraine, giving rockets, which is the main thing that happens when we launch a satellite or anything into space, is rocket launchers, has 14 percent of the revenue. So this is a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, Because Ukraine often acts as a poor relative or a beggar. We have the best technology here, and you let us go, please, for a couple of percent of these best technologies. And Norway, which gives the launch platform -- that's quite different -- gets huge -- twice as much revenue as Ukraine. Here I hope that in this situation Ukraine will not be a poor relative. Because Ukraine from Brazil, using the location, the geographical location of the space station, which makes it cheaper to orbit missiles, to participate, you know, not in brotherly income distribution, but in fairness. Because when it was asked about a neighbor, we always shared a brother's, or Ukraine's compliments, and Russia's profits. Well, some of them may be profit officials. So in this situation, it has to be much clearer because it's not written here clearly enough. I recommend paying attention to the distribution of the revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u46	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I have several approaches to considering this law. I certainly welcome the signing of the agreement with Brazil on Ukraine's participation in the launch of the Alkantar launch center. As you may recall, in the past, we formed a group called "Ukraine-Brazil", led by Deputy Suslov. The representatives of Brazil came here, and the fact that this agreement was made is positive. It's the use of intellectual potential and knowledge that belongs to the people of Ukraine, but not to any one enterprise or one person. We have to conclude from what's happened, we've destroyed our missiles, at least we can replace warheads to satellites, and today we'd have free Internet and communications in every village. And they wouldn't have walked with their hand out, they wouldn't have depended on the Americans or the Russians or anybody in this world. I have specific warnings about this international agreement that comes out of the legal issues and the technical and economic justification that the government has made. The government didn't make any arguments about the income that Ukraine will have, it wasn't given to us, it's not stipulated in the contract at all. And that's why I think it would be very good for us to introduce this practice -- ratification is the adoption of the law, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The adoption of the law has the same stages -- first reading and second reading, like all other laws. Then we have to take it now, vote for acceptance in the first reading, and then correct something on the second reading. In particular, I'm surprised. As officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs allow such things as the application of laws, article 15. Here's the thing: The Supreme Court, the Federal Court of the Federal Republic of Brazil, examines the lawsuits and conducts the arbitral proceedings relating to Alkankar and Cylon Space and Brazilian citizens, the Ukrainian Court of Justice, which examines the final dot, and then the Supreme Federal Court of the Federal Republic of Brazil examines the lawsuits and conducts the arbitral proceedings relating to Alkankar and Cyclone Space and citizens or residents and the organization of third parties. I mean, what if the claims of loved ones were to be resolved in Brazil, not in Ukraine. So I don't see equality here, you kill me, but I don't see equality here in defending Ukraine's interests. So given that Ukraine, the development of the Cylon-4 rocket is 510 million dollars -- over $90 million -- and that's the responsibility of the Ukrainian side. Joint formation of a ground special complex at the launch center That's $51.94 million. The Ukrainian part of the contribution to a joint Ukrainian-Brazilian enterprise and this is a stock company. I think it's necessary to ask the government to give us a serious basis for budgeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u48	And then with the responsibility that Ukraine's budget will bear, not specific enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the speeches are over, all those who signed up are speaking. After, at the end. I'll take the vote, please. On the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Brazil on Long-Term Cooperation on the Use of the Cylon 4 Missile at the Alkantara launch centre, document 0164. Please vote. [[11:08:07]] For 352 Decision taken. Before moving on to the second question, Boris Bespali made a written request to speak on a procedural matter, please. Boris Bespali of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u50	Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! And especially the Honorable Regulatory Committee! I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that when we sign up for questions, different MPs have different opportunities to sign up. In practice, is there a discriminatory absolute nature, I ask, a word for question, a deputy or a faction? This order is now in effect. Everyone lacks a word to the factions, even though the Rules provide for it. In fact, they can ask no more than three questions. And it's so orderly that the word gets fractions regardless of their number, absolutely random. And then it turns out that those MPs who belong to numerical factions, for example, 3 and 5 times more, have three or five, seven times fewer opportunities to get a word for a question than those who join smaller factions. Therefore, I ask the Committee to consider this issue. Although the Rules provide that the word should be used in order to decrease the number of fractions. [[Article 3.3.7]] This is a discriminatory situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Microphone! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the Regulatory Committee, and with the technical capabilities involved, to work out the proposal. But what I'm saying is that the faction "Our Ukraine" in this case is not one of the last. Only Yuri Carmazin, as I read in the paper, spent the fourth session at the microphone for 7 hours 48 minutes and in four sessions for 30 hours 25 minutes. So divide between the factions. It's the same for the performance. The draft Law on Ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is under review. Polakov Sergey Vasilovich, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Today you are presented with a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The aim of the proposed law is to create a legal basis for Ukraine’s participation in the Kyoto Protocol in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Countries that have signed the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change have undertaken to protect the climate system for the benefit of modern and future generations of mankind on the basis of justice, on the basis of a common but differentiated responsibility, and on the basis of the opportunities they have. Ukraine is known to be a party to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change of August 11, 1997. Ukraine’s Law of 29.10. 96 on the ratification of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and signed the Kyoto Protocol on March 15, 1999. As of January 2003, 187 countries, including the European Union, are parties to the Convention. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol are not only a flawed element of the international environmental protection process but also of the system of sustainable development. The active participation of Ukraine in the international process. The implementation of these documents is appropriate and necessary. The adoption of the Kyoto Protocol in 1997 became a major international event, the protocol is based on the provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and is its instrument. It is aimed at achieving the ultimate goal enshrined in article 2 of the Convention. To stabilize the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous tropical effects on the climate system. The protocol consists of 28 articles, as well as 2 Appendices A and B, which are an integral part of it. Appendix A defines greenhouse gases and their source categories, and Appendix B lists the sides of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and differentiates the quantity of commitments to reduce anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by a percentage to the base year or period between 2008 and 2012. The joint efforts of these countries include a 5.2 - percent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990. [[Article 3 of the Protocol]] The Kyoto Protocol is the first international agreement to provide for the use of market mechanisms for international cooperation to solve the global environmental problems that have been called "flexible mechanisms". They are based on recognition that the manifestations and effects of climate change do not depend on the location of greenhouse gas emissions and the overall cost of reducing these emissions can be minimized in a global context. The Protocol identifies three basic flexible mechanisms: joint implementation of the clean development mechanism and trade in greenhouse gas emissions quotas. The participation of the Parties to the Protocol in flexible mechanisms is voluntary. You have to admit it. Note that the Kyoto Protocol will become effective if ratified by at least 55 countries of the parties to the convention, including developed countries and countries with economies in transition, which account for at least 55 per cent of total CO2 emissions in 1990. I'll be there at 26. 11.03 The protocol ratified 120 countries, including Japan, Canada, the Czech Republic, Poland, Estonia, Hungary, New Zealand, Romania, Lithuania, and the European Union approved Kyoto Protocol 31.05. 02 and aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8 percent over the period 2008-2012. The European Union has stated that an already approved legislative mechanism under which member states will be obliged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions according to their competence and in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol. They refused to participate in the Kyoto Protocol of the United States and Australia, citing this to the great material losses needed to ensure that these countries fulfilled their obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. You can keep going. In conclusion, the adoption of the law will have no negative economic and financial implications for the state budget of Ukraine. The implementation of the law does not require significant additional financial resources. A major loss to Ukraine may be the refusal to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, since the previous estimates of one year’s delay may lead to Ukraine’s failure to contribute about US$1.5 billion to external investment. The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol testifies to the consistency of state policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, when you begin to report, please report that the country will receive and lose. I'm asking us not to lecture on the meaning of the Kyoto Protocol. And that, I think, is of interest to the MPs. Everything else will be read in the documents they received. Please ask questions. Sign up for the minister. Andrew School, please. It will be a pleasure to ask questions next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Well, I actually wanted to hear the answer, Mr. Minister. What Does the State Lose? Because, let's not blame the soul, Russia thinks, and there was a statement by a representative of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the possibility of non-signatures in Rome. This was a statement made by the Kyoto Protocol and about quotas for Ukraine’s quota trade rights under the Kyoto Protocol, so that you can make this clear because you need to understand the benefits of Ukraine. We also understand that Ukraine has very little to give to the atmosphere in order to suffer material damage. But what could happen in the future. We expect Ukraine to become a great nation and an industrial one sooner or later. So please draw such a short picture, loss of income and ability to trade quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u55	Thank you. I want to say that in 1990, Ukraine had 880 million tons of CO2 emissions. To date, there are some 300-315 million tons. So we have an excess, so let's say, quota, as you could say. And today, if we join the protocol, we can implement this quota. And if we join in, so to speak, this year, we're starting to produce a mechanism and we can go somewhere with about one and a half billion dollars in investment. If it's not done, we'll lose with you. There are projections of our industry's growth, based on what we have today, economic growth. And they show that we're going to have emissions, if they increase, they're going to go up to about 350 million. And given that these funds that will be invested in Ukraine will be used to improve businesses in metallurgical, chemical and other industries, those who make greenhouse emissions and gases, this will minimize our emissions even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u56	Basil Nadrag. I ask you again, you can answer the questions briefly. You ate it all the time, harshly speaking, with your answer to a question. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u57	Dear Sergey Vasilevich, please tell us that what we join this treaty can be regarded as positive. How do you feel about the position of such order that they say, in principle, it is a war with windmills. Because America has already been mentioned here, Russia has not joined. That is, in fact, so much talk about reducing these emissions and supposedly trading them. Okay, I have two questions. First. How much do you think this is going to work, not for us, but for the world economy, a document? And second moment. Is someone actually selling surpluses of their quotas in the world today, or is it also telling us that these potentials of ours are one and a half billion dollars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u58	So, thank you. I'm answering. As far as America is concerned, you yourself realize that America today has very large, so to speak, discards. And if you do how much it takes America to cancel out, there are 50 to 100 dollars per tonne, these are costs that they think are very large. As for Russia, I was in Russia at an environmental convention, and Russia is not refusing entry into the Kyoto Protocol. They continue to study the matter. And the convention confirmed that Russia was considering its accession to the Kyoto Protocol. And as far as that is concerned, there are examples or no examples. In Europe, there are examples, where Holland has already started trading with its quotas in principle. It is a fact that exists today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Please sit Sergey Vasilovich. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Gennady Borisovich Rudenko, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I thank the minister for lighting up the problem quite so widely. So I'm not going to, let's say, touch on purely formal issues. I would like to say the next thing that really the Kyoto Protocol on Ukraine is signed a long time ago. The question is about ratification. I am immediately prejudiced about the United States, as far as Russia is concerned, Sergey Vasilovich answered the question. My position is next. Of course, the situation in which the country has a golden share, and the United States or Russia have a golden share, that is, without them in the form in which the Kyoto Protocol is foreseen, will not work, can be twisted, excuse me, hands. And the situation of Ukraine, whether it ratifys or does not ratify Ukraine, better not be the Kyoto Protocol. But this is how we confirm, not in words, but in reality our European strategy, our integration into the rules of Europe. Europe, knowing the attitude of both Russia and the United States, has in general initiated a strategy that, according to the Kyoto Protocol, all work will be done equally. Therefore, if our path to Europe is to be ratified. I'd like to use my time more for answers that my colleagues may have. Because it's really not a simple question, but we're a committee, personally I've been with the minister, and we've been very active in both the international arena and the internal negotiations. I don't want to say that the main place in the Kyoto Protocol is trade in quotas. I'm putting it last. First of all, I think the Kyoto Protocol is the world's first major environmental project, which foresees only one -- a clearer global strategy for reducing emissions, for improving technology. At the first stage, when the Kyoto Protocol was formed, it was fundamental that different technologies, particularly the United States, would be introduced at a time when Europe began to have a more active influence on the Kyoto Protocol process, particularly the latter being the Moroccan Treaty. It became clear that each country would put in place such technologies for a clean implementation mechanism for a common project mechanism that would satisfy it. I mean, given that most of us, based on the cost of our wages, from the economic situation, Ukraine is a very interesting market for implementation mechanisms. So we can get this on top of the benefits of technology that's very interesting to our businesses. I can tell you that today is a special day for us to take on the energy sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u61	Gennady Borisovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u62	Thank you. Five seconds literally. Especially our heat plants, they're in a terrible state. So without mechanisms to improve technology, there's filtering technology, there's combustion mechanisms, we don't need to. And that's the pay-as-you-go mechanism for implementing such a mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u63	Yes, whether they are desirable. Yes, please sign in. Yes, please, five minutes. Lighten up. Yukhnovsky, behind him Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u64	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." In view of what you said about the ratification of the Kyoto Treaty in order to be close to Europe, I fully agree that the treaty must be ratified. And I have a question for you. In Europe, the cost of each product must be the result of damage to nature. Is the committee capable of helping the Ministry of Ecology determine the value of such fees for each type of production in Ukraine? So that the cost would be added to the cost of the product.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u65	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. The next question. You and I know that Ukraine has legally become a principle of sustainable development, and it's the Kyoto Protocol, the ratification of it -- it's also one of the elements that we're still going to be building on sustainable development, a normal, civilized approach to nature, in the future. I don't want to be on some orthodox or ecological or industrial side right now. You've got to pick a golden middle. Today we ask the question of what the attitude to ecology should be real. Real next time. In particular, there are so many studies today that there are so - called marginally acceptable discards. So, in Ukraine, unfortunately, this is a paradox: there are allowed discards that cannot be calculated by modern, state-of-the-art measurements. I mean, European figures are even more like that, the benefits. So we need to be realistic. There's a technology that can estimate that the discharge is one ton. So this is going to be a base. And then the market mechanism has to work. So we now agree with the ministry's strategy of what should be based on the principles, the Kyoto Protocol's basis has created a real, modern register and a calculated situation in Ukraine. Next. We're going to define a strategy: reduce emissions by this percentage every year. And businesses that are going to make a sharper execution, that is, not 2 percent, but 20 percent, will be able to sell their 18 percent on the internal market or on the external market. So we include a market mechanism there, we're definitely going to continue and we're going to run it, and the ministry is leading this, a strategy to really put enterprises into the cost of real environmental costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u66	Please, Bronikov, behind him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u67	Gennady Borisovich, of course, Europe will only buy surplus electricity if we do not sign the Kyoto Protocol, there will be no prospect of trade with Europe. But in his statement, the minister said, in my opinion, that there was little convincing figure on carbon dioxide emissions in 1990 and that now there were 880,000 and 303. The Committee analysed whether these figures were credible and why, over the past 10 years, such a decline in carbon dioxide emissions had taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u68	Thank you. The next question. Ukraine now takes 6th place in the world under the Kyoto Protocol. Because they took the base in 1990 -- that's the year -- that was the time of the reconstruction. So in fact, a number of cooperative projects have been disrupted, the power of enterprises has decreased, so we can say that not because of us, not because of the government, but because of the situation that Ukraine has created, in fact, with such a small miracle, what happened is that in Ukraine 800 million tons per base. And without actually doing anything, we already have the potential of 500-600 today -- these are really these numbers. Many countries, in particular Western Europe, have tried to convince us that let's take the basis not for the 1990s, but for the 98th year, 2000. But in the sense that they took that year so far, it was more convenient for Ukraine. The '90s is a time of collapse, so we have, I think, 10-15 years of steady industrial development, but we have with you, let's say, work on improving the environment. If there's an environmental certificate in Europe, it's actually not just an ad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u69	Gennady Borisovich, thank you. I apologize to the school. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Karmazin, get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I remember, Adam Ivanovich, that I had to leave for 10 seconds, save myself, I remember that. Dear National Deputies! The questions were extremely serious, and I looked at the experience of our neighbors. For those who rely on the experience of the Russian Federation, I would like to quote what the advisor of the Russian Federation, Putin Ilarionov, said. Citation: "The Kyoto Protocol limits Russia's economic growth and we must declare it openly, condemns our country to poverty and underdevelopment." This is a statement from a Russian president's advisor. It's me, so that we don't get so unreserved about saying how good it is or how bad it is. There are good things here, there are, of course, very serious things. Ukraine is the only one of all the Post - Soviet countries that still does not have a permanent representative. It's called talking to the Secretariat in Bonn, although it pays the fees. Ukraine alone has not developed or implemented a national strategy, a plan of action to mitigate the effects of climate change. When social, economic, environmental policies are conducted, we do not take into account climate change - related considerations. And we don't see that in our legislation. Therefore, the formal ratification of the Kyoto Protocol is dangerous for Ukraine. Why? For article 18 of the Kyoto Protocol provides for effective procedures and mechanisms to identify cases of inadequacy and response to such cases by international society. So what I'd like to say is that this is a question that needs to be put off, ratified, silently, but not immediately. But we need to create a committee of representatives of the PEC Committee, the Environmental Committee, industrial policy, Euro-integration and verify the effectiveness of international assistance from this round, conduct parliamentary hearings and conduct a review of how the requirements of Ukraine are met, because taking on new commitments is again on the shoulders of the Ukrainian people. But eventually it will have to be ratified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u71	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You have fulfilled your obligations. Please, School, get Solomon ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u72	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Well, first of all, of course, I would like to point out that the two representatives -- the minister and the committee manager -- were very similar, that is to say a lot, but the facts are few. So I didn't hear a clear line that Ukraine is losing what it's gaining. It was called the minister-minister a figure of one and a half billion dollars as income, but it's like the profits of trade in quotas, that's things that are left over because Ukraine is creating less greenhouse effect and less CO2 emissions. But what damage? You don't have to forget, you have to say that these profits are going to go to modernize businesses. But we do know that when the money goes to modernize businesses, not every head of this company will have enough spirit to invest in environmental protection for these enterprises, reducing CO2 emissions. It was noted here that my predecessor that article 18 of the Kyoto Protocol provided for serious responsibility for non-compliance with the Protocol. So I think there's a sense of unpreparedness. In many words, both representatives — or the Supreme Council — and the government — felt unprepared. And that's confusing, because the Kyoto Protocol is really a necessary thing, and it needs ratification, because Ukraine, the Ukrainian State, with its weak leadership, has ratified so much nonsense, so much anti-Ukrainian stuff, that the Kyoto Protocol here has to look for with a hole, with a microscope the threats it carries. That's why we need to ratify, but I'm making a claim -- some kind of preparation. There was to be a diagram on these monitors, which was given to the MPs with clear structural reports. The advantages and disadvantages, the loss and the profit, the cost of all these things. This was not done. This is an unreasonable approach. And so it might seem to me that this is a kind of intermediate document that the government is interested in, well, as the ministry in particular. There was no fire in the performances. Because what I'm about to say is, in many words, there's a sense of a lack of a stable mind. So I stress that the government has to prepare more effectively, maybe even more effectively for similar bills because they are key. And so in general, I'm going to say, for this criminal regime, they're not really interested anymore, because this is for Ukraine's future. And I agree that the Kyoto Protocol cannot stop industrial development, but it does consider Ukraine to be a third-world state without development in the future industry. This should be foreshadowed, involved and represented throughout the negotiation process, and prepared more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u73	Yuri Solomatin has a word from the faction. A representative of the Communist faction. John the Rabbit will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u74	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there are now certain myths in the world that are being made as realities. That's the world of globalism. There is manipulation of consciousness on a global scale. In the history of the earth, there are certain climate cycles in geological history when the cold occurred and when African heat came. But in what cycle our mother earth is now in, we haven't heard of it in a report from the honourable minister. The world’s scientific opinion on this issue has not agreed whether there is a modern warming as a result of cyclicality and the corresponding struggle against it makes no sense, or the result of mankind’s activities as a driving geological force, as determined by our fellow countryman Vernadian. The Kyoto Protocol did not include the largest environmental contaminants, mentioned the United States, and mentioned Russia, which is still observing this procession. But the main thing was not the People’s Republic of China. Only European countries that have been affected by flooding in recent years, as if by artificial global warming, are insisting on recognition of the Kyoto Protocol. But it is not mentioned that such floods in Europe are actually affected. We're talking about an important, only-known narrow circle of experts, the impact on the atmosphere and the ionosphere, the use of so-called integrated geophysical weapons, developed in the years between the Soviet Union and the United States. The U.S.S.R. is gone, but the United States has built an extremely dangerous and extremely powerful HARP facility in Alaska. This abbreviation is short and it's completely English. to influence the ionosphere. According to some scientists, this particular object is a means of influencing the ionosphere and the effects on floods and typhoons that Europe and Asia have suffered recently. And finally, some billions of dollars that have been mentioned to come to Ukraine to compensate for discards that Ukraine will not throw away. They will be stolen and no one will doubt it. So our faction cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u75	John the Rabbit is the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, "Our Ukraine" faction. Honorable National MPs. As an environmentalist, I am in favour of ratifying this protocol, but the problem is how to do so so as not to harm Ukraine's national interests. I don't allow formal ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. Therefore, I immediately propose that ratification be carried out in two stages. In the process of two readings. Today, ratify the Kyoto Protocol in the first reading and then work on the second reading. As an environmentalist, I have to tell you that there will be no benefit of two or three billion dollars from the ratification of this Kyoto Protocol, especially when Ukraine chooses a quota trading mechanism. The benefit is different, because we're going to reduce CO2 emissions into the atmosphere, we're going to improve air quality, we're going to improve water quality, we're going to improve the quality of the earth. The Kyoto Protocol will be another incentive for us to change the fabric of production, to move on to high intellectual technologies. Therefore, dear friends, it must be ratified in this regard. But in the procedure I'm telling you. I want to make an authoritative statement that the Cabinet of Ministers has taken the issue of ratification completely irresponsible. There are no strategic and tactical steps taken by the government to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. In the instruments submitted for ratification, you will find no serious answers to the basic questions. That's right. To what body in the system of government will the coordination of the activities of the authorities and business entities under the Kyoto Protocol be placed? What financial, material, organizational resources are being diverted into the implementation of this program? For example, Germany has a wide range of state, government and scientific structures that deal exclusively with the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. By nature, economic mechanisms, literally technology, and so on. That is why we too should approach the matter in this way. Reducing emissions is not a trade in quotas. The point is that we have to answer: how do we reduce these emissions? And these are structural changes, the development of renewable energy sources, these are energy conservation, forest recovery. Where does it say how we will proceed? There is also a lack of clarity about Ukraine’s use of Kyoto Protocol mechanisms. What are we going to bet on? For mindless quota trading or joint implementation projects? And here, in the position of the government, it's full of vectors: you want -- quota trading, you want -- joint implementation projects. As a national MP, I reiterate to you that the Kyoto Protocol needs to be ratified, but in a two-read scheme. That's why I'm only voting if we vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u77	Thank you, microphone. Please, Mikola Rudzkowski. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that before this protocol we cannot change warnings or ratify or not ratify, two readings of this. Thank you. Please, Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u78	Dear National Deputies! Of course, the issue of ecology for Ukraine is very important because we've been through the tragedy of Chernobyl, but we need to talk, Mr. John, I've listened to you, thank you. But when we look at the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, we should think that this could be a certain very significant constraint to the growth of Ukraine's economy, which today, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, has an annual increase of 8 percent. So if, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't, Mr. John, I can't speak like that. And so if we're talking about Ukraine's economy growing by 8 percent a year or 8.9 percent a year, in 40 years, the gross national product will increase by 22 times. I didn't hear from the minister whether there was an appropriate schedule for the increase in emissions, depending on the increase in gross national product. This protocol has been ratified by states where, in fact, there has been no increase in gross national product in the last 10 years, I have European states. They have a steady high level of economic development. For Ukraine today, I think it's necessary to count all of these indicators before they're thoughtlessly ratified. It's different. Adopt tough laws to commit chemistry and metallurgy and other industries that cause large emissions to modernize programs to reduce emissions and thus move on, say, to the limited discharge of harmful substances into the atmosphere. And thirdly, I don't think we can ratify this bill until we have serious negotiations with the European community on this issue. Because it can be the same serious factor in the impact of agreements: both the introduction to the World Trade Organization and the deepening of cooperation with the European Union. And Russia is counting this actor. And so the thoughtless protocol did not ratify. I think the government needs to be re-examined and then introduced this bill, the law for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u79	Roman Zvaric, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'd really like us to. on this question, on this question that we are facing right now, and we have come to the right conclusions. I would also like to suggest a way out of the problem that we are dealing with. I cannot agree with the Minister's conclusion that the ratification of this protocol does not entail any additional budgetary burden on our state. I draw your attention -- and that's what some of my predecessors have said -- that this protocol makes specific commitments to our nation. And in the event that these obligations are not fulfilled, certain sanctions are coming, which will be very severe. I mean, of course, I'm in favour of us entering this system that's covered by this protocol, which we've already entered, if I'm not mistaken, 117 countries in the world. But the mechanisms provided for in this protocol require certain monitoring measures on the part of our State. In the absence of such measures, we will not be able to claim any investment costs. So we're practically being asked today to ratify a protocol that I think is absolutely necessary -- I don't agree with some of the speakers here -- but which should clearly define budget allocations. The State Budget Act for the current year does not define such budgetary allocations, at least I have not found them. So my proposal comes down to the following. We can, I'd actually like us to take a slightly unusual approach to this issue, we're practically adopting a law that acts as a ratification mechanism as a instrument of ratification. The law, like any other law, sets a date for its taking effect. We must now change the date of entry into force of the ratification of this protocol in order to allow us, in accordance with part two of Article 27 of the Budget Code, to foresee appropriate budgetary allocations. The only way we can do that is to adopt the Ratification Act itself in the first reading and then change just one digit by five, which is the date that this law becomes effective. So we're really pursuing our policy of Euro-integration, but we're doing it not only in word, but also in deed. Because that's how we give ourselves the opportunity, and the government, including, to anticipate the corresponding budgets. So my proposal is to put a bill on ratification of the Kyoto Protocol for approval on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u81	Roman Mikhailovich, thank you, time. Dear National Deputies! They're all here. What's the line? Oh, Rudenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Today's budget for Ukraine is definitely metallurgy, that's chemistry, that's mining-rich combinations. It's a food policy. The only way to get out of this situation is by increasing the internal gross product, by increasing the budget yield. This can be done as in the whole world, in view of the fact that Ukraine’s future is an area of service. The area of services is to invest in the coming years from the profitable part that exists in Ukraine in the area of services. And this can give a really seven-pronged step for Ukraine in the future. So why do we mention ecology just before the elections? If you mentioned before the election that you're just a metallurgy, in chemistry, we're not saying that this is an alternative. I think it's either-or-or. We're saying that this could exist in a civilized, parallel way. So I suggest, however, that Vladimir Mikhailovich was correctly told that there is no alternative, there is no way to change the protocol. Be brave. Either you accept or you don't accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Sergey Vasilovich Polakov microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that there were things here that said that there was no budget funding this year and so forth. So I'm going to tell you that in order for the Kyoto Protocol monitoring group to start working, all it takes is four or five people to increase the Department's Air Administration and it'll start working. And if we can present the mechanisms to you this year, you'll be budgeting next year to increase your country's monitoring. But these costs aren't that big and they're going to be invested in the Treasury itself, maybe a little bit of an increase, and the effect that we're going to be able to get with you on this is going to be much more than that. So I would like to urge you once again to ratify it and start the process of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we've all spoken, we've exchanged thoughts. The first was a proposal by the committee to approve the relevant law on ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Change. What? On the grounds, cancel the vote. Igor Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to listen to the Minister's words. The Ministry of Ecology can, indeed, conduct such monitoring and conduct such monitoring. It's a very small cost, and the Ministry does it. It's supposed to be more orderly. So I ask you to ratify this treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u87	Thank you. I put to the vote the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law as a law on ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Registration number 0142. Please vote. [[11:55:16]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Is there a need to report him? None. Who, who has a warning, can't see? Well, if that's the case, we'll have to call it a day. Well, please, then, let's get to the bottom of this, let's do a report and take a break. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being announced for consideration. Musina Ludmila Abdrachmanovna is the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration. Please be brief and complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Dynamic information infrastructure and a competitive information sector is the first prerequisite for ensuring the competitiveness of any economy. And in this area, Ukraine also has a unique human resource and a huge potential for development, but many of the components of information infrastructure are not accessible to the general public and the role of the Internet as a universal knowledge-sharing network is not appreciated, and to improve the efficiency of the work and the central government and local governments. And for this potential to work for the economy, for society, it takes, firstly, a proper legislative base and, secondly, sufficient funding from both the state and private investors. Unfortunately, in 2004, the National Public Budget Information Programme had only 7.7 million dollars. I mean, very small costs, less than in 2003. There were 8.6. That is, there is a need for involvement and the cost and experience of the World Bank. And this project "Ukraine is Development" online is the world bank's first investment project in this area. The cost of $5 million. The government's funding of this project is $1 million. The repayment period is 20 years, the debt period is 5 years, the repayment of the loan and the loan will be granted under the standard terms of the World Bank, it's about 2 percent of the annual, that's a very cheap loan. Of course, these costs can be taken and used effectively. Now, what do we expect from this project? Three blocks. First. An electronic government, worth 2 million 650 thousand. It includes two subblocks -- electronic documenting and electronic public procurement. Next block. The legal security and functioning of the electronic business is $800,000. And the third. It's an electronic dialogue between government and society -- $2 million and $110,000. On three levels: County City. What do we expect is an electronic public procurement system? I just wanted to say that electronic, or automatization of the purchase process, already has a great deal of experience in both Eastern European and Latin American countries. What is the most important thing? First, the level of competition is increasing, transparency. There's a 5-10 percent increase in the number of firms that are allowed to tender at all. And budget savings in other countries are about 5 to 10 percent of total purchases. That is, if 37 million dollars in Ukraine, 37 million dollars in government procurement, that could be at least four billion dollars. Of 37 billion, four billion is at least an economy. Next. Electronic documentation. It's a pre-emption. The work of officials in the processing of information, the rationalization of public administration. Less paper, more available information on all levels. Less of this kind of cover-up. In Britain, the automation of this documentary process has reduced costs by four percent. I mean, economics is expected. Next. It's a block of legislation for e-business. It only provides for the development of regulatory acts necessary for companies to do transactions, so-called, online transactions. And here we also expect, first of all, an increase in the number of companies that are going to be, that is, an extra traffic of about 100 million. That's right. And of course, from that, the increase in income tax, and the operations themselves are going to be at least ten times cheaper because the Internet service is cheaper every year, and now it's cheaper than using faxes, some mail and everything. And that's where it's expected. We already have two laws adopted by the Supreme Council, namely the law on electronic digital signature, the law on documentation. There is now a need to develop a series of regulations to comply with these laws and to harmonize them with European laws and with all other laws in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we take a break? Yeah? Thank you, sit down. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u90	We're continuing our work, dear colleagues. Is there a question for the deputy minister? Sign up, and I'll ask Ludmila Abdrahmanovna to come to the rostrum. Please sign up for the National Assembly Hall. On the board is Rephat Chubarov, faction of "Our Ukraine"
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u91	Dear Ludmila Abdrachmanovna! The projects you call, including an electronic dialogue with power or an electronic document exchange in the government, are extremely interesting. But in real life, it's often not possible for the district organizations to provide basic Internet services to the population because they don't have adequate equipment. In the summer of that year, I was in some parts of the Crimea with a group of donor ambassadors. And there we were looking at projects to support such specific projects related to the provision of returnees, and when we, I was surprised to learn that, say, there is no Internet service in the Soviet district of Ukratelek, because they have no equipment. So there was no way that part of that loan could be allocated to the development of the district organizations of the U.S. U.S. so that people would be able to get these Internet services instead of developing all kinds of all-U.S. programs that wouldn't go to everyone, knowing who needed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u92	The thing is, if you just buy equipment and don't develop this software to fail to develop the network that connects, let's say, the central executives, the local ones, it's just going to be separate computers that we have now and so many in the ministries. And we see that they're used as typewriters. So the challenge becomes to develop all of this infrastructure right now. So to connect with, for example, ministries, observatories, district administrations, and even in district towns, to make such, let's say, regional information centres, where any person can go in, they'll sit there, serve, say, what kind of official will help them make a request to the Ministry of Economics. She might ask, "How am I going to get a pension? Should I run, or can I wait?".. So it's about having people in the regions, in the areas, also having access. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u93	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u94	Sophia Abdrahmanovna, I have a question. Any loan, even the one we're discussing today -- you're saying that this is a concessional interest on credit -- is either the same or the latter. I have a question: can't these resources be found here? Well, let me give you an example. The Pension Fund has established a personal accounting system that is not cost-compatible. And how many were willing to offer us credit money so that we could then give it away, and a number of other things that, as princes, would be owed to future generations. We found an opportunity, we did. Today we are betting on five million that we will still have to give to succeeding generations. So can't we find these resources here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u95	Well, I'd like to add to this that I have this graph: "Fundamental provision of the National Information Programme." And we see that it's the budget expenditure: 2002 -- eight million, 2003 -- eight and six, now in 2004 -- seven and seven. So it's not funded enough. Of course, other funds must be included in this program. And if you add up these costs, for example, in 2004, we're already going to have 402 million dollars. And then she'll cover. So Ukraine's development through the Internet will enter as an integral part of the information program. And it will cover the need for these to be created by the State Commission. maintain web hosting and networking, and the same thing for Shrimp. So this is an integral part of the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u96	Please, Valentin Grigorovich, a question. I'd like to ask you, honourable national MPs, to give you a brief answer, and I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary-General, to give you a specific answer. Don't read the lecture. It's not a school, it's not a lesson. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u97	This is not a violation, Adam Ivanovich, of the Rules. I wanted to say that we also need to provide some guidance and feedback so that their answers are very brief but clear. That's it. Now, here's the question about this bill. Under the loan agreement, $5 million is provided and $4 million will be spent on contractual consultants. I support Comrade Nadrag. Yes, Your Honor, what's the point of this loan if we're paying 4 million $750,000 to consultants, including 100 percent to foreign consulting firms? How do you understand that? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u98	I have to say that services are the standard concept used in statistics in national accounts and everywhere, so services are any payment of our programmer, for example, whether there's an official. It's all favors. And ours. No, no, no, no. I'm sorry, it's definitely gonna be ours. Why? Because competition is a competitive procedure for each of these jobs. Well, it won't be foreign. Why? When we have our own. We have 50,000 programmers, including mathematicians. They're just out of a job. Well, if the law is ratified, the State Procurement Gazette will immediately announce the competition. All our firms already know that, Ukrainian informers will participate in the competition. No, I don't. No, it's not. Surely our priority will be ours. Well, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u99	Yes, thank you. Please sit down, Ludmila Abdrahmanovna. Osika Sergey Grigorovich, please. Who's from the committee? Ah, the head of the committee. Please, Sergey Vasilovich Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to brief you that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 15 December 2003 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement on Ukraine - Development through the Internet between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The loan agreement was signed by the parties in Kiev on October 1, 2003. The aim of the project is to improve the efficiency of certain government agencies. I want to make the point that if international financial institutions give $5 million to the US for 20 years with a 2 percent mortgage, you have to take this money. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and Banking supports this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u101	Any questions, dear fellows? Yes. Please sign in. Put it on the board. Mikola Tomenko, please. Then there's Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u102	Sergey Vasilovich, I've been actively reading this document that we're being asked to read here, and this is a colleague from the Ministry reporting, and I think it's a little bit worse for me to know the text of this document, because it's very clear here that 4 million $750,000 goes to foreign consulting firms, and it's going to be defined by the intercom of the Cabinet of Ministers. This interdisciplinary commission is created by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. I went to the site, and this decision is not there. Maybe you know who will choose these foreign companies to teach the government how to communicate with the Ukrainian people for $5 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u103	Nikolai Vladimirovich, thank you. I heard your context, and it was indeed one of the most pressing issues we have in the Committee's consideration. The ratio of 95 to 5 per cent is 5 per cent for equipment and 95 per cent for advisory services, and we also have doubts. In this regard, I am reporting to you that, given that Ukraine is financing $1 million, including purchases, say, computers, technology and so on, there are plans for $400,000 in this regard, the ratio will be approximately 4/1. According to the articles, there are 13 articles, let's say expenses. For example, creating and implementing a system of procedures and software for electronic documentation, there are 80,000 and so on. Because this is, let's say, a project has more, let's say, an emphasis on software, we think that this ratio is fairly correct. As for the campaign, which you said would be taught, until, unfortunately, we heard, we didn't see it either.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u104	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear reporter, look, these things always happen under very good names. This is to provide Internet services and Internet training for departmental and departmental staff. So to facilitate the lives of officials, it'll make it easier for officials to live -- it'll make life easier for the people, because they'll be less angry, less paper, so they'll be mother and stuff. Well, actually, loan 5, I don't even care what firms are going to take, $5 million in loans, and 4.7 of them are going to provide consultants. I understand that the consultants will say that with a big finger on such a keyboard, part of the keyboard, another finger on the other. Is this going to be a consultation? Will they give advice on how best to provide software and so forth? So we know how to do that. We know very often that the principals of these consulting firms are to impose such loans. So they have a direct benefit here. In principle, I don't even see the point of this loan. I'm telling you what, because it's only a nice name here, and the meaning of the name, as always, answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u106	Andrej Vasiljevic, the point is that this loan has several positions that are really attractive, namely: interest rate, timing and so on. With regard to, say, consultations, indeed, when we talk about this project, it's obviously related to software, logistics and so on. That's why there's more than a million here and four with more than a million. We believe that this is correct enough. In the end, the hall is defined. However, our committee and my personal opinion that this money should be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u107	Mikhail Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u108	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Before I ask you a question, I want a line on Internet technology. Internet technology is not the work of officials, it is one of the highest technologies available. And regardless of whether we ratify this money, don't ratify it, the Internet will develop independently of us. It's what exists objectively, it can't be banned, it can't be suspended, it can't be done in any way. And here's to you as a financier. You see, the stone of the forerunner in this article, that is to say, we have to return the money twice. Once we return by ordering orders, that is, the second time we have credit. And the question is, well, we can still say that we should adjust and say that, basically, well, it's not possible to say that completely, but it's mostly domestic producers that are going to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u109	Unfortunately, this cannot be done by a well-respected colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u110	All of it. The answers are complete. Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, Sergey Vasilovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin has the floor. Next up will be Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u111	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials! I would like to be very serious about such matters as ratification. Now we've ratified the Kyoto Protocol. I insisted that two readings should be considered. But even this proposal has not been put to the vote without realizing that you are doing the same thing as you are denouncing Ukraine. Well, well, maybe someday someone will realize that we've made a lot of mistakes right now, so I urge you not to make the next mistake now. In line with the terms of the agreement, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is expected to lend five million dollars to Ukraine for the purpose of contributing to the implementation of the innovative project. Information and communication technologies. Let's take a look at this project. It has already been rightly pointed out here in Matthew's and other national MPs, that 4 million 750 thousand is, in addition, one clearly written, page 12 of the contract: category, second category - consultants - 4 million 750 thousand. I read from the text: "One hundred percent of foreign consulting firms and individual consultants; then 87 percent." On the next page, I suggest you read, page 14, paragraph D: "The term "foreign consulting firm" means a consulting firm, registered or incorporated in any country other than the borrower country." So I would like even high-ranking government officials to report responsibly from this rostrum to the National Deputies and inform the people of Ukraine. Because I only have three minutes. And you've used up a lot more time. And unfortunately, there was a very big lie. So just a few goals are in order. Enhancing the efficiency of decision-making in public procurement. What is it now that is difficult to publish on the Internet about a tender and put out a package of solicitation documentation? The second target is the flow of documents to accelerate the development of the private sector. It's been working in this area for a long time. The third is the electronic government. The development and implementation of a working model for state electronic purchases is envisaged. We already have it. And there's this paperwork. Fourth is an environment for e-business, creating a regulatory environment. This does not require five million brothers, but the business will decide for itself how the banks did it when they were comfortable. The fifth meta - electronic dialogue between power and society, strengthening the role and revitalization of participation. There are already orders from the previous heads of the Supreme Council, the present Supreme Council Head, the President's decrees and even the orders of the new president's office, Medvedchuk, who began to develop an electronic dialogue. So the problem here is the problem is that they take orders from the Chief of the Supreme Council and bring responsibility to those who delay instructions. This project has to be rejected, not charged with the State budget, all the more, everyone says it's a loan, but look closely at the points that are set up here, and it turns out that we have to give the government first, and then the compensation mechanism is allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u112	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Well, it's just that the government has had more time, we have less. And we have to open the anatomy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u114	Thank you. I'm asking our informants to turn off the microphone after three minutes. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u115	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I think when it comes to loans, loans to be given, either 10 or 20 years from now, we all have to be here, in the session room, if, obviously, the government has forgotten about this, first to remind us what the debt situation is, what is going on today. You know, today, on January 1, 2004, we have a total government debt of 14 billion. 541 million 200 grand. That's what I'm talking about. Ukraine’s total government debt increased by 339 million in the last year. 500 grand. That's what I'm talking about. And what's planned for this year is that the government doesn't control and understand how to act on total and, in particular, external debt. And when I'm told that another five million dollars under two percent is awfully good for the Ukrainian people, who will then give it back, I honestly don't understand, I think government officials should wake up and go to bed thinking about whether they've returned at least one penny of government debt, not how much more they've taken for the people of this debt. Now for the ratification of the agreement. You know, as the head of the Parliamentary Committee on Freedom of Information, it seems strange to me that we have people in the Ministry of Economics who think we need them to teach us how to document government to the public and lead us to read them. We have legislation in place that is very clear, which documents are secret, confidential, and which should be published. To date, we have a government secreting about a few hundred documents a year illegally. We have a secret in some areas about mortality and birth. So it turns out that in order for the government to comply with this rule, we need to borrow 5 million to let foreign consultants teach the government, and then we're going to return that money. I've never seen such cynicism with these loans before. I don't know, maybe we have the pro-American orientation of the Yanukovic government or some of their more respectful treatment of American experts at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, if no one here can just say that there are laws, by law. By the way, this is the ruling that I asked Sergey Burjak -- a secret, classified decision that the interdeputy commission will share with the International Development Bank. So you imagine a situation, we're taking money to keep it from being illegally classified. So I'm absolutely and definitely in position, I don't know, it's corruption of course. We need to find this man to break this deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u116	Yes, thank you, please, Kirilov. People's choice is not. Solomonine. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! We are once again witnessing how the government of capitalist ministers, the bourgeois Supreme Council of Ukraine, throws down a bourgeois law for the benefit of certain social issues, especially among government officials. The figures were already called, and it would be good to remember them. Against the background of the total external economic debt of $14 billion, it seems that an additional five million is only a small amount. But it is amazing that almost 90 percent of them will be used to maintain foreign consulting firms. We don't have our own consultants? We have already bred these centers, funds, so - called grantors, who have learned so much to use this computer technology and technology that there seems to be nowhere else to go. It's a dangerous weapon! Just as a gun in the hands of a bandit can perform certain functions and tasks, so in the hands of law enforcement, he does quite different functions and tasks: protecting a citizen person, a country, a state. So it is those technologies and the loans that we're offered that we really need to look very carefully at who they're going to get, who they're going to use, what they're going to use for, and who they're going to benefit from. But finally, before that. After 20 years, our children and grandchildren have this obligation to repay. Now these five million dollars are being wasted in favor of the temporary ones in power today, and then other generations will have to compensate. Well, can we agree with this attitude and with this attitude towards the proposals of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development?Oh, my God! This is no longer a reconstruction and the development of the country is the destruction and final captivity of the country! That's what this bank should be called and what it's really called. So my faction, and I personally cannot support such a bill. It is, in its essence, one that is geared towards solving public tasks and all the more tasks that would benefit our disadvantaged people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken. So we have every reason to put the question to the vote. May I have your attention, there will be a vote now, Your Honor. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u119	Dear Valery Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u120	What? One minute, cancel the vote. Please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u121	I have to give an answer. The point is that the loan agreement on page 12 says, for example, goods or funds 100 percent of foreign expenditures, or 80 percent of the locals. The difference is VAT. So if you choose foreign, then 100 percent; if you choose ours, 80 percent. So there is no obligation here to choose a foreign firm. It's a standard contract, she is. They write like that all over the world, but the difference is VAT. If we choose our company, then we don't have to pay VAT when the equipment goes abroad. That's all that's said. It does not say that we are obliged to choose it. It's just saying that then less money is going to be, because you don't have to pay VAT, so this is a completely different treatment of this agreement. In addition, we have dealt with this issue on committees, and we have committed ourselves to every tender procedure, to every purchase, to bring documents to the Supreme Council, to see who has won and who has participated. I mean, it's clear that this has to be a transparent document and a transparent procedure. If we had two committees or three said, "Bring it, we'll check it out, we'll give it to you, or we'll ban it," that's what we're going to do. We promised. So the committees supported us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u122	Yes, thank you. I'll take the vote, please. I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. [[12:56:51]] For-154 The decision is not taken. I ask the committee and the Cabinet of Ministers to consider this matter further. The factions, please. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement on the implementation of the "Friendship" and "Adria" oil pipeline integration project is under review. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Please. First deputy, right? So it's the First Deputy Minister. There are prospects for a minister. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to consider this? We've been looking at it, we've been discussing it. Please come to the rostrum. They demand, let's do it if there's a question. We have already considered this question. There is a question. Please sign in. It's got a name tag on it. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u123	Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u124	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u125	I have a question of this kind. This is one of the bills that touches the very important, painful energy sector for our nation and society. Please tell us how this bill will affect our relationship with countries that supply oil and gas to us in Ukraine and those countries for which Ukraine is only a transit state. For and against, please, on one side and on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u126	This project will serve only the integration of Ukraine into the European Community. In addition, the country's $30 million additional foreign exchange will have a beneficial impact on our big Odessa-Boda project. I mean, we're in for it. That can be said with certainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u127	Igor Yukhnovsky is a faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u128	Yukhnowsky is "Our Ukraine." Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I wanted to ask you to just confirm the fact that, apart from the ways of Odessa-Broda and Plock-Willmanshafen in Germany, we are doing another extra branch from the Ships to the south, to the Balkans to Splot. And so we're giving an even greater utilization of the Odessa-Broad oil pipeline, and so it's convenient for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u129	The second route to Mishal, you mean Mishal? The second route to, well, maybe Michelle, it's really good. So when we build the second thread, we don't, there's a response of 70 kilometers from the current second wire we're going to get an alternative exit to the deep seaport. That's where you're right. Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u130	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u131	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, we understand that there are three main sources of economic wealth in Ukraine today, agriculture, metallurgy and, of course, transport systems, including transport of oil, gas, other chemical elements. And that's why I think we need to vote in favour of this bill, because it's going to really benefit our nation. But at the same time, I would just like you to be more convincing to the MPs about the economic advantages of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u132	We now have about 17 million tons of oil being transported through the "Friendship" pipeline each year. We get an extra five, so in money that's $30 million of currency revenue, we get a lot of opportunity to connect countries that are transiting oil, corresponding to the guarantee of future work, well, all the rest of the process, that is, large budget allocations, that is, only the benefits. And I'm asking you to support me in this. We don't have any underwater stones. All countries have already ratified, except for us. They're all in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u133	Melniczuk. Melniczuk's microphone, a faction of socialists. Well, Melniczuk, please, microphone, faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u134	Thank you. Michael Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm right here, right here, in front of you. I'm very concerned about the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers' decree. By the end of November last year, 130 million dollars had been allocated for the gasification of rural areas. Please tell me, the 130 million who owed Ukraineftegas to the budget, will these jobs be funded in rural areas this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u135	Question, of course. I understand he's sick. We were given only a month, from November to December, to implement this project. We just didn't make it. Last year we laid 414 kilometres of gas pipeline in rural areas. I'm just having a hard time answering if your folks are in that amount. Then you come to me, we'll talk separately. Because we failed in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u136	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Oleg Salmin, of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Danger. Do you have a question, Your Honor? If you have any questions, please sign in. If not, don't write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u137	If there are no questions, I think it is better to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u138	The miner, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u139	Or report?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u140	Questions have already been answered. There will be questions. Please, Gunnery Eugene, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u141	Please give the floor to Deputy Steckov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u142	Taras Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u143	Your Honor, you will not deny that the agreement on the integration of the "Friendship", "Adria", which is now proposed to ratify, is directly linked to the direction of use of the "Odessa Ship". That's my question. Where are you in such a hurry, since this ratification was already coming out in December and was not supported? And why do you bring this question to the Supreme Council on the same day that the Ukrainian government in charge of Yanukovitch has to decide the direction of use of the Odessa Broda oil pipeline. And after having received a direct offer from Shebron yesterday for the willingness to transport direct cassian oil in a volume of 9 million tons this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u144	Thank you for asking. I'll start in a row. As a matter of fact, the Odessa Ships project, Adria, has nothing to do with this. The point is that we must load the amount of oil transport towards Adria through the “Friend” pipeline system, which will provide additional money for Ukraine's budget. The Prime Minister himself and all the committees have requested that we be able to address the issue at this particular meeting. There were a few votes missing from the last meeting, and these votes are due today, I think. As to whether we are in a hurry or not, the answer is simple enough: if the Croatian side that is a party to this process will not soon take credit for 60 million dollars. The euro will not build a terminal, it will not reverse the supply of oil to the port of Omishal, nor can there be any oil delivery system in Europe. Therefore, what we are now voting for is the creation of a euro pipeline for the transport of any oil to the port of Omishal. This is therefore a strategic decision for Ukraine, and Ukraine remains the only one who has not ratified the treaty. If we do not do so today, this direction may soon be closed, and there may not be any European direction towards the port of Omishal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u147	Yes, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u148	Dear colleague, Nadrag, Luhansk, People's Choice. We discussed it in the group, we support the ratification of the agreement by the People's Choice. I have a question: Will you please tell me if it's of any use when the real economic impact of this document will come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u149	As soon as the oil enters the pipe and passes through Ukraine, Ukraine will receive specific money for transit through its territory, both in the company and in the budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u150	Yes, time is up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u152	To discuss this question? Now, one minute. Find out who signed up. Yuri Karmazin, Andrew School, Solomatin, Rudzkowski, Stack Who insists on speaking out of those who sign up? Dear colleagues, please make sure they don't act. Yuri Carmazin. To prepare, if School insists, for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u153	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Yuri Yushchenka's constituency, Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, thank you, you've studied the Rules in detail for this night and thank God that you're applying it now. I also remember that I owed there, Adam Ivanovich, all the time reminding me, Adam Ivanovich, don’t worry, I remember. Dear National Deputies! Right now the government, which is not our government, is not the government of patriotic opposition, but is the government of today's pro-American rather, what he now proposed to ratify these agreements. So the pro-American government of Yanukovic is today considering the proposal of the American company Chevron that 9 million tons of oil will pass through the Odessa-Broda pipeline in the direction of Brody, whether this project will go through, or whether it will go through a reverse project that is being lobbyed all the time by the Russian side. In fact, it's the same way that the oil pipeline project is lobbying as the Adria and the Russian side are lobbying, and let's not hide the stiletto in the bag right now, but let's just remember what was the conversation with President Putin, his authorized representative here of former Prime Minister Chernomirdin, and today's ambassador, that's exactly what it is. So it's because it's not secret, so we know about it. Now let's think about it. Is it wise to make a deal to ratify any decision by the government? I think we should wait for the government to report today, and then we would vote. And today, we're just going to look at the question. Why? I'm concerned that if the pipe is fully filled, the 9 million that are going to be directed there, they just won't be able to get there. That's it. The difference is five and nine. And Yuri Anatoly here didn't tell us how that would be possible, when and when the government would adopt such a course as it would be. So I'd like to: or you could explain later how we don't have any disagreements. If that's the case, I'm willing to support it. If not, I will vote as required by the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I would like to report in connection with Yuri Anatoliyovich's statement that a few minutes ago, the government's issue of the Odessa Broda oil pipeline was concluded. The decision has been made that he will only work in his original assignment, that is, there will be no reverse and there will be no reverse. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I understand you're all in the voting position now. I know you're going to make a positive decision right now. But I would like some warnings on this matter. See what this is all about. There's a saying like that, the forerunner of today's speaker said, "You don't have to stick it in." This situation right over here is going to happen about the same way. They're trying to shove two streams of oil into one pipe. Look at you. There's 25 million tons of oil pipeline capacity. Now there's 17. Let's include these five- and already nine million tons that have ratified the government that are going to pass through Odessa to the Ships, transporting our Ukrainian part with the "Friendship" oil pipeline will not be possible. Think about it, please. Thus, no one gave such explanations from this rostrum. You've just been given a setup that's very good, that you have to vote for this oil to go somewhere. You'll understand that this quota, which is set up, is a deficit that's been introduced in the "Friendship" transport, it doesn't provide for inclusion there except for nine million tons of oil to go on the Odessa Ship. You understand. It's okay. Please don't interrupt me, okay? Are you in a hurry? You can vote. I'll take your vote. Thank God! So once again, in this situation, you just don't want to get in the way. And putting your head in the sand doesn't solve the situation, because making a decision by a government is going to be a decision by a government that's already in place. That's it. That doesn't mean that you can make your own money and make money to the state. So once again, I stress that even if a positive transport decision is made. oil, there won't be any room in the pipe, because it's huge. Because there's no supply now. Do you understand? If you make the basic mathematical calculation-- plus 5 to 17, you get 25, which is full. And here I would point out that even in the price equivalent, we have problems because entry always has some preference, so just so ratifying nobody ratifys anything. Ukraine will also lose money, and perhaps someone will make money. But Ukraine will lose. And so I would stress that every voice you have here will be judged in the future by your vote for ratification, it will be a vote against Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u156	Who else is insisting on the show? Yuri Solomatin, are you insisting? Mikola Rudzkowski insists? I see, I see, I see. I'm looking at who's written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, you know I've been talking about oil and gas for a long time. For example, I would be more pleased if the government spoke from the rostrum and spoke the Ukrainian language. I think that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if Azarov is speaking from the "Ukrainian" rostrum, we need to be informed. But let's do it essentially now. We, Ukraine, are a transit state, and we are committed to increasing gas transport through Ukraine. We put 120 billion cubes today, we want to build a new pipe and transport 180, thus increasing our economic impact in Europe. We ask that Odessa-Broda work in the direction of the Ships and across the territory of Poland and thus increase the movement of oil. But today we have the opportunity to actually load the pipe that stands, let's say 30 percent can be loaded, reduce the cost is constant, because then the volume of transport will be greater. So make this direction more competitive, because the constant cost is going to be smaller. And next. If the government assures us and has decided that Odessa-Broda will work in that direction, it does not threaten the work of Odessa-Broda. And so the warning that Odessa-Broda won't work, if we vote, I understand there that Vladimir Mikhailovich, after your information, is being removed. Do I get it right? Therefore, I believe that this issue can be voted on, uploaded to 100 per cent of the pipeline, and thus made possible not only the coming into the budget, but the increasing weight of Ukraine in the supply of energy resources to the European market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u158	Taras Stackov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! I believe that the proposed agreement should not now be ratified, or at least deferred. I'll try to give you a few arguments that are so calm. The head of NAC Naftogaz of Ukraine, speaking, spoke of the economic impact of $30 million, which would be from this agreement. I would like to remind you, for many probably do not know the meaning of this agreement. The Friendship Integration Agreement, Adria, is that in exchange for Russia's promise to transport an additional 5 million tons of Ukrainian oil pipeline from $0.74 per tonne per 100 km to 0.64. This is the first question. And now there's two problems. Is it more convenient for Ukraine to stay on the previous tariff and, secondly, will Russia transport it? That's the first thing. It's a different situation. The National Deputy, speaking here, said that Odessa-Broda is not related to the "Friendship" agreement. This is not true. The maximum capacity of the "Friendship" oil pipeline for Russian oil transport today is 25 million tons, loading 17. If Russia reaches 5 million tons, it means that even if Ukraine today has taken the government's decision to use Odessa Brody directly, and Shevron is ready to pump up 9 million tons, which, by the way, Yuri Anatoliovich will give Ukraine a half billion dollars budget, then this oil will come to Brody and she'll go nowhere else, because the oil company will already be loaded by 90 percent, so the connection is and it's direct. And so my position is that for today it looks like the position of the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine and the position of the government are two big differences. And the fact that today there is such a colossal struggle around what the consulting company has concluded about the reverse or not the reverse of Odessa-Broda. What will the government report today, and what does the head of the Supreme Council say? This shows that the issue is to a lesser extent to be addressed in a complex way. If the Brody-Plotsk branch had been built today, then the Adria Friendship could have been ratified, because they wouldn't have crossed. Since Brody-Plotsk is gone and we want to be a nation that imports oil to have diversification of sources, we need to release both Russian and Caspian oil through our territory. And to do that, you have to let the "Friendship" pipeline be loaded and so on. Therefore, because of these arguments, I propose not to support the agreement today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has spoken, please, Boyko. Then the reporter, Oleg Salmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u161	Let me make it clear that we have a "Friendship" capacity of 35.5 million tons, not 25. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u162	Salmin, please. Is Salmin refusing or not? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u163	I would like to ask Mr. Stackiv not to speak so clearly about, rightfully, rights, because the information he has speaks of his very poor training in this regard. And what I want to add is that I'm being specific enough. These projects are not at this stage, at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? You just said the line, you said you didn't need an infinite replica. Then write it in writing. As a reporter, he had the right to conclude. Let us act by the Rules. Calm down. I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement with the Implementation of the Oil Integration Project "Friendship" and "Adria". Please vote. [[13:20:33]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have not finished our work yet, we continue. I understand it was a document that mattered. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Change and Supplements to the Rules on the Determination of the Origin of Goods of Developing Countries shall be published for consideration in the framework of tariff preferences within the General System of Preferences provided for in the Agreement on the Regulation on the Definition of the Origin of Goods of Developing Countries for the granting of tariff preferences under the General System of Preferences of 12 April 1996. Is there a need to discuss this document? None. Nobody insists? I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Change and Supplements to the Rules on the Origin of Goods of Developing Countries when granting tariff preferences within the framework of the General System of Preferences provided for in the Agreement on the Regulation on the Definition of the Origin of Goods of Developing Countries when granting tariff preferences under the General System of Preferences of 12 April 1996. Registration number 0116. Please vote. [[13:22:02]] For 268. Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols supplementing it is being announced for consideration. [[Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, and Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air]] The committee recommends ratifying this document. What are some warnings? Is there any need for further clarification? You don't? I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Ratification, the approval of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols supplementing it. [[Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, and Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air]] Registration number 0145. Please vote. [[13:23:22]] For 299 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information is under consideration. The committee's decision is to make a positive decision. Who insists on considering the matter? Yuri Carmazin, please. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. There's not much left, please be patient. Three more papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u165	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Ukraine has always been famous for cryptographic sciences, and in some cases, including in the field of communication, it was an example for the whole country called the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I don't mean the President's interview case here, a separate case, a violation of instructions and rules, but it's also exemplary. I want to point out that all of this knowledge and experience has been made at the expense of the State, and it is important to predict that it will benefit the State. I think that this kind of cooperation can contribute to the transfer of experience, which, not as a race, but as a result of paying for it. The new head of the U.S.S.A. became the first director of this service to alert us about the possible leak of information from mobile phones. And that's right. Because students have long since deciphered the GCM code, and phone calls can be heard at very low cost. I would like to take advantage of this. I would like to draw Mr. Smick's attention as head of the service and yours, Sir Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to the fact that the previous management of the BAF has responded to three of my appeals about the transfer of one software sidir and materials to enable the Supreme Council of Ukraine to begin implementing its digital signature. And this is also an element of technical protection. She said she wouldn't, because it's the property of an SBA company. And a letter came to the Supreme Council that you would pay us $150,000 for that. Imagine, the government funds are funded, the budget, and we're required. And I beg you, Igor Petrovich, do not repeat the actions of your colleagues. Give this disk to the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine, and to the Cabinet of Ministers, and to the ministries. This project, which is now being proposed, I would like to vote both in the first reading and in general, despite some warnings. And when we sign these projects, I wanted to protect interests in Ukraine better. But as a whole, the adoption of this bill will allow relations between Ukraine and Belarus to be resolved in the field of information protection through technical and engineering measures, such as by preventing the flow of information through technical channels, unsanctioned access to it, breaching its integrity or blocking it. Maybe then we'll find out who put the bugs on President Putin and Kuchmi during the conversation. And we're going to hear this right now when we're looking at any of these issues. Because if Lukashenko comes here, he'll have more bugs, he'll be ashamed of the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I can't see any more objections. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a committee to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on Cooperation in the Field of Technical Information Protection, please vote. [[13:27:13]] For 281 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of disease prevention caused by the human immunodeficiency virus is being announced. [[HIV-infection]] The committee has decided to recommend ratifying this document, no warnings? None. I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of prevention of the spread of the disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus. [[HIV-infection]] Please vote. [[13:28:13]] For 310 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes is being announced. The committee considered the matter. There are the relevant findings of the Scientific and Expert Office, which believe that the document can be ratified. What are some warnings? None. Then I put to the vote, one minute, please, Carmazin, please turn on the microphone, I ask the government representative, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u167	I'd like to ask you a question, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, a representative of the government. The thing is, Dubai is, as you know, a new offshore. And let's make sure that we don't help get the money out of there right now. I would like the government to say, how close will the issue of the outflow from here today and the circulation of shadow money coming from Ukraine if there are no currency controls, quotas and trade barriers in Dubai today? To the extent that this will be protected, how much Ukraine will be protected in ratifying the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u168	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, Dubai, is the United Arab Emirates. That's probably not the point. So let's probably address it when it's time to go. I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes. Registration number 0160. Please vote. [[13:30:41]] For-300 Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of South Africa on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes is being announced. Dear colleagues, there is a committee decision to make a positive decision on this matter. There are the relevant conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Which of the national deputies has a question, a warning, or a desire to express their point of view regarding the bill? None. Then I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of South Africa on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes. Registration number 0161. Please vote. [[13:31:52]] For 304 Decision taken. The draft Law on the State-wide Plan for the creation of An-70 military-transport aircraft and its procurement under state defence orders is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first deputy minister of industrial policy, Valerius Petrovich Kozakov, and from the committee, the head of the subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Vitaly Ivanovich Majko, will speak with a co-report. This is the rule: for the report, up to five minutes, the answer to the question, within five minutes, it's the same thing as giving the co-reporter and having a ten-minute discussion of the bill. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers is introducing the draft Law on the State-wide Program for the Construction of An-70 Military Transport Aircraft and its purchases under state defence orders. Accordingly, the draft law to the relevant program defines a system of balanced measures aimed at addressing the following core tasks. First, this is the complete completion of research and development of Antonov-70 and D-27 engine in Zaporozhye; the conduct of state trials and a range of weapons applications throughout the plane; the preparation of serial production, serial production and procurement. The programme is expected to be implemented in two stages between 2004 and 2022: the first phase by 2007 and the second phase by 2022. The principal amount of first - stage work funding is about one billion dollars. And especially for the completion of the 128 million plane development, for the 450 and the last, 427 for the purchase of two series samples. Today, the plane’s design is like this. Five hundred and sixty-eight flights have been confirmed and all the computational indicators set out in this project are exceeded. Marketing research has shown interest in this project by China, India, and other countries in the Asia-Pacific region. On the base model Antonov-70, several commercial projects are being developed for military and transport aviation, which at the second stage will allow for the financing of this aircraft no longer from the State Budget. The goal of this program is to have a separate line in the State budget, which will allow, at the final stage, during the series production to ensure the loading of about 50,000 jobs. In preparation for today's session, several Supreme Council committees held field meetings at the Antonov NTC and were able to learn about the development and preparation of serial production at the Aviation plant. Please support our offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u170	Your Honor, is there a question for First Deputy Minister Valeri Petrovich? Please sign in. We agreed five minutes for questions and answers. Light it up, please. Mikola Onichtuk. Then there's Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u171	Dear reporter! Mikola Onischuk, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. The bill is called the National Plan for the Development of a Military Transport Aircraft and its Purchase under State Defense Order. Please tell me what costs are needed to complete the plane's creation phase, that is, design, testing. Here, here, here, here, here, here, And what are the costs that are going to be spent on buying a newly created airplane? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u172	Thank you for asking. The actual amount of first-stage work funding, which will lead to the completion of the development and the beginning of the series production, is: to complete the development of the plane -- 128 million dollars -- that's with the engine. Production is about 450 million dollars. Some $40 million is planned to buy a plane for our home customer, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense. For export, about $60 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u173	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear reporter! Of course, it's nice to see that the Cabinet of Ministers is interested in Ukrainian aircraft, and, you see, you have the opportunity from the rostrum to try to convince a large part of the people's deputies that Ukraine needs to purchase Ukrainian aircraft for the Ukrainian army. Look at how many interesting things are being put in here. I mean, export production is great, because first of all, it makes a lot of money for those who resell it and so on, and, for the needs of the Ukrainian army, we have to discuss the need. So this has to be accepted without a doubt. Of course, the Ukrainian army must be provided with Ukrainian transport aircraft. And to tell you that it takes a lot of money, and the State Administration can share, and in two years, it will save you the complete addition of this plane to all the technical documentation. That's why. We've got to back it up. Alan's another nuance. You're just more detailed because you're being listened to not only by MPs, but also by radio listeners, I hope. Make a more detailed picture of the aircraft on which the Ukrainian army is being transported, and what will be the future, and how much is this Ukrainian army transport aircraft required? Please, in two words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u175	First. The state defense order is made today. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation are the general subscribers of this aircraft. The Ministry of Industrial Policy is a public defender for preparing the aircraft for serial production. This order is in line with the order of military engineering that has been adopted around the world. Today, the Ukrainian army has old Antonov-12 aircraft, Antonov-22, to replace Antonov 70. Aircraft of today’s generation or of yesterday’s generation. They've flown away for about 30 years and they've used their resources to the full, and then their use can be dangerous, which is why Antonov-70 is a new generation of military-transport aircraft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u176	George Manchulenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u177	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian People's Party, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Valery Petrovich, no doubt Antonov-70 is a long-suffering project. In general, both Ukraine and the Ukrainian army need it. At the same time, I want you to make some clarifications and let our electorate know about it. First of all, it's not really a Ukrainian project, it's a Ukrainian-Russian project. I'd like you to say it or not. The other one. Has President Putin addressed the Ukrainian side so that Ukraine can transfer ownership to Russia for intellectual development, that is to say Antonov-70 himself. Next problem. Given that this is a joint project, we can see how Russia has treated Antonov-70 so far, which statements were made at the highest level and stopped on Russia's side of the project, and for what reasons did this happen. Further, if this is a joint development, how will we, by investing our budget money, then buy it out. And what will be the contribution of the Russian side? And relative to AN-12. I just want to make a note. The American Hercules in two modifications has been flying for decades, we.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u178	Yes, thank you. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u179	In terms of property and the role of the Russian Federation, the aircraft was ordered by the Ministry of Defense of the Soviet Union and, as you know, at the beginning of independence, the first aircraft that was manufactured under that state defense order died. And the second plane was created as it were, according to a government agreement that was adopted between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. It defined all the principles, so the funding mechanisms they are now following, the truth of the Russian Federation today owed NTK Antonov and other project co-contractors about 48 million dollars. On January 30, last week, I was with a delegation of our specialists, experts in Moscow, and we had a meeting. The Russian delegation was headed by Marshall Shaposhnkov, the advisor to the President of the Russian Federation, and we resolved all the issues related to the coordination of the project work. The question is discussed every time at meetings of a mixed commission on trade and economic cooperation, a subcommittee on military and technical cooperation. The following week, February 9, from 9 to 13, a delegation of the Ministry of Defence is arriving in Ukraine, where we will continue to consider coordination and financing. Thank you for your attention. As far as the right to intellectual property is concerned. Military contractors have concluded that it is final to decide who belongs to everyone. Can not get message: %s %s Today because the order was the Soviet Union for the General Developer, it's known to NTK Antonov and the general developer of Progress by making Aviation and Network, so our rights, they're really confirmed today. At best, if the debt is paid, it could be fifty - fifty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u180	Yes, thank you. Your time is up, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u182	Have a seat, Valery Petrovich. Committee head Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u183	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues! Ukraine's draft law on the state-wide programme for the creation of AN-70 military-transport aircraft and its procurement under state defence orders has been carefully considered by our committee. The purpose of this bill is to concentrate at the national level on financial, material and technical, other resources to ensure the creation of a new type of military-transport aircraft, the organization of its serial production and the purchase of state defence supplies. I'd say it's an organizing document. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of October 10, determined that the draft law could be adopted as a basis, and made a few observations, suggestions. These are mainly related to budgetary matters, namely, matters related to the resolution of budget laws. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council supported the bill and suggested that it be accepted as a basis and generally as a law of Ukraine. Our committee at its meeting on November 4th also considered this bill. He's offering to accept it. And I think we could take it as a whole. The corresponding amount of funding for the programme in 2004 is foreseen by the 2004 project of the State Budget of Ukraine. Another point was made in connection with the replicas that were heard in the hall. Dear colleagues, for almost 15 years we have been feeding our defenses and our military “breakfasts” that tomorrow, tomorrow, we will be richer, buying our military equipment, our own. The time has come. Finally, the budget is budgeted. We need to put this matter to a quick vote and accept it as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u184	Any questions? Please sign up, Your Honor. On the board, please give the names of the national MPs who are registered. Hell-bent, national MP. Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u185	I don't think there will be any healthy people in this room who might be in conflict with the draft law. The only thing that I would like to know more constructively is how many orders are provided, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u186	Well, first of all, I guess we'll cut back. Thank you for your support. Rather, we do not allow jobs to be reduced. That's a first. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the list of enterprises involved in the implementation of this programme. It's not just known in Ukraine, it's the famous businesses around the world. So we're actually not only going to save, but we're actually going to be able to give some normal momentum. I want to say again, this is an organizing document. That is, we give hope to the people who work in this sector. I think our people's deputies who represent this industry will be able to say that in their statements. Now, specifically, what is envisaged. By this year, 213 million in the Ministry of Defence had already been budgeted for one aircraft. It's very important, you have to start with one. Next year, we'll go back to the budget, and we'll ask for more aircraft for next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u187	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u188	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Yuri Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I have already said that I need the support of this project, although there are some things that are said to be unclear. And that's why we need to get an answer. First. Why has not a similar law been made so far, or the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees on the state support for Antonov-70, this project, and it's only now that we've come up with what needs to be done. First of all, Russia owes us a lot of money. This project is blocked on various scales by the Russian military. Next problem. Why has this project not been implemented in conjunction with the countries of the European Union, as a European transport aircraft, who, as it were, has put it at a standstill? And the next problem, because there are some warnings, and we don't have to rush, let's get to it with balance, and we'll take the first reading so that this bill can be polished for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u190	Thank you. First, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the National Integrated Aviation Development Programme of Ukraine by 2010. It was 13.10.2001. So the general direction was. But there is a need for clarification. I'd like to answer. That's why this program came up. Answer your question. There is, there is a matter of relations with the Russian Federation, a negotiation process on aircraft ownership and this work. We need to make this clear. The first Deputy Minister of Kazakov had already answered that question. And the second question about Europe. And they don't want to work with us on this. Because there are double standards. And each country cares about its own manufacturers. And Europe doesn't want to give money, they're going to have similar planes in years, but they only invest money in their companies. And so there will be no hope that we will be able to co-operate with Western companies with aircraft building. And Russia needs to get a clean divorce. Because they want to, but they don't invest and they don't want to invest. So let's just write this down normally, civilize these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u191	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u192	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk, People's Choice. I think that's the idea here that this bill has to be supported. He's good on all sides. What's developing is high-tech production, and what's going to be jobs, and what's going to be the army's weapons, not someone's. It's all great. It's all good. I'd really like that to happen. But I have a question, Yuri Ivanovich, a little bit of procedure. Tell me why we went on the road to a bill in this room, so to speak, with all the discussions in general, with certain risks of legalizing the subject. Why didn't they just go through Kabmin's approval as any national programme? And more efficient and faster and more useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! Well, should we ever say we're statesmen? We need to give our perspective on the priorities of our development. It can't be in the country to make all the branches a priority. No, it's just us, unfortunately, that's what happened. We need to understand that the most intelligent thing in the Soviet Union has been concentrated in Ukraine. We need to give these people a chance to break through right now. I believe that what was adopted today by our space development programme, actually ratifying the document with Brazil and this law, will give a clear understanding that the Supreme Council is in state positions, it supports the highest technologies that are in our country, not only by storing them, but, as they say, by multiplying them. And that's why it's very important that all the national MPs in this room hear what this is about, that we're not only able to cry, but we're able to make the best airplanes in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u194	Yuri Ivanovich. Thank you. I would just like to add, if you allow, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution, that the exclusive powers of the Supreme Council include the approval of state programmes, including this program. We're not speaking from the budget committee here, we're speaking from the deputies. And the Committee on Budgets gets all the documents, let him make the point. Please, let's move on to the question. Who signed up? Light up, please. Yuri Carmazin. Please proceed with the procedure. From Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, please, while Yuri Anatolyevich goes to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u195	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Today, we have all come to believe that by strict adherence to the Supreme Council regulations that you are doing today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is much that can be done. We are now considering the eleventh bill, the eleventh bill, and the morning session is not yet over. And I don't think it's happening here anymore, and we shouldn't have to ask ourselves that today, if we were to work on a regular basis every day in a mode of discussion and voting, we could do a lot more. And this very important bill, which Valery Petrovich has reported, we will not be able to vote today because we do not have the regulatory option as we do in other bills. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose to return to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's project, once again, to discuss it on the Conciliation Council and put it to a vote in the Hall. As for the organization of every day of the work of the Supreme Council in plenary mode as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u196	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin has the floor, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u197	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Solidarity” of our Ukraine. In fact, I would like to support now the head of the Regulatory Committee and support Adam Martinyuk's proposal, you see all the benefits if we vote for the Law right now. I'm going to stop very little in this Law because it's extremely necessary and, thank God, the government has finally managed to give such a program. It foresees the possibility of doing scientific work, buying weapons and military technology, doing scientific research, research and development work on them, and also about the work on the creation of new military technology, precisely by our Ukrainian subjects of entrepreneurial activity. But I would like to point out that, aside from budget funding, and I think the government needs, when it prepares changes to the budget, to increase funding for this particular section of the program and everything about arms purchase, we didn't have 10 tanks of everything given for all of the years of independence and credit, and we didn't have that credit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the money is to be sent. This is where we're supposed to But it does say in chapter 3, financial security, not just at the expense of the budget, but other sources. What is "other sources" and how much funding there is? So I would ask the government more precisely to define it, to do it, and now to write it down. And I think we should take this program right now in two readings, that's clear. I just don't have any questions. I am once again as happy as you that we have adopted so many legislative acts today, although some are questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u198	Yes, Andrew School, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma. Dear colleagues, I ask your permission to resume our meeting for 15 minutes in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u199	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. First of all, I would also like to state that the usual discussion of drafts and the immediate adoption of decisions simplifies and speeds up the work. Simplification does not mean that it is thoughtless; rather, it is thoughtless and effective. So I've been doing this a long time, constantly, and I'm now supporting the head of the Standing Committee. But let's go back to this bill. I don't think there's any doubt that we need to support this right now in both readings. Here's the only thing, this bill, I'm going to say again, is that very rarely does the government take similar initiatives. Well, at least now it's happened and I'm happy about it. But let's think about the situation again. We're discussing and now we're glad that this happened, that the Ukrainian army will have the Ukrainian army. And the Ukrainian government finally offered it to us. Look, we're putting out the best tanks in the world. This is proved by the fact that they are being sold, despite the fact that the Ukrainian economy is lying, factories are standing. And the tanks are still running, not in Ukrainian land, but in Pakistani, but in other ways. The same with airplanes. How many statements were made by Russia about the inability of this plane to crash, that it could not serve the Russian army properly and qualitatively. Well, really, he can't certainly serve the Russian army qualityly, because it'll be adapted better for Ukrainian. That's it. And if someone doesn't want it in Europe, well, please, they'll see it if they're misbehaving in a different way. You understand, because this is defense law, this is the defense strategy of the state, this is security for a long, centuries. So it has to be clear. Let's look at one more situation. We have the Ukrainian production of Motor-Sitch, we have the best aircraft engines in the world, we're watching with you, at least not so often, American movies about the Russian helicopter K-52 Black Shark. What's Russian? There's Russian only tires of the Yaroslava tire factory, everything else is Ukrainian production. But there's the word "produced in Russia" because it's an intellectual property of Russia. So once again, I'm stressing that this was going to be a constantly baking government, it had to think, gather night meetings and decide how to save the Ukrainian aviation industry, how to provide the Ukrainian army, and the Ukrainian people to protect, that is, the army -- the technology, the Ukrainian people -- the protection and the workers -- the work, because it's our production. And a government order is what exists in any country with the very developed economy and private property. The United States works on a government order. So we have to do more work in this direction, and we have to do more work here. It's good that this happened, but it's bad that it didn't happen before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u200	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and prepare for Pecklusenko. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the aviation industry around the world is not only a big business, it's also a big policy. This is not only about the satisfaction of national aviation companies or the Ministry of Defence’s interests, but about Ukraine’s technological, economic and political development. Why do we need to adopt the National Program by law? But at least in order to set up our control on this basis, our parliamentary control over how the budget will be used, and how this National Programme will be implemented. I want to remind you here in this room that we have passed a law with you on State support for domestic aviation. This bill is not being implemented. We have adopted a bill in this room on the State Support for Agricultural Machinery. This law is not passed, it is not fully implemented, as is the law on the production of bronze technology, as is the law on support for state motor vehicles, which is currently braking as much as possible. Let me give you two examples. These are two of our new planes: AN-140, AN-148. And while we were dating, we were convincing each other, we were smearing budget saps, and in the world, AN-140 was called Iran-140. He got there a lot faster. Ulaan Uda is releasing AN-148. We haven't seen him in Ukraine yet. In the world, it's called Burran-148. This is a conversation about our intellectual property. We made Tupolev-334 in Ukraine, a beautiful plane, a competitor of Boeing. And the helicopters were already here. And we're directing our forces abroad on MI-8 helicopters, this is not military aviation. As for Bill 4150, I welcome the Kabmin legislative initiative that it is during the Supreme Council session that we will adopt a transparent and clear state-wide programme to create an AN-70 military-transport aircraft. Of course, the law may come into force, and here the budget committee colleagues rightly say, from January 1st 2005, that is certainly the case. But it is necessary, it needs to be finally adopted as a bill, because first, it will contribute to the creation and serial production of a competitive aircraft, and secondly, it will give long-term orders to domestic aircraft companies and engine industries and the adjacent industries. Dear National Deputies! The aviation sector of Ukraine is on the rise today, and I suggest we adopt this bill so that we don't stop it. We need to contribute to the development of domestic aviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u202	Alexander Pecklusenko, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u203	Eighty-four constituencies are down. First of all, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to thank you for your insistence today on how information is provided by ministries and departments. I think we should send a letter to every ministry under your signature and say, "Ministers, we're smarter than you think. Stop pouring water, let me be clear about what is needed from the State budget and what is, and when more will come back. Don't pour any more water. Second. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I fully agree with colleague Matveyev. So many days and months have passed, we are owed free of charge to the electorate, to the industry, to the country, we need to enter into the most productive regime, we need to adopt every day the laws that the Ukrainian people expect of us. And more. Directly on the issue under discussion of the bill, this is not an aircraft law, it is not an airline law. This is a law on Ukraine's future. If we don't adopt this law, we're going to cut down the whole machine industry, this is the unit that we can pull the whole chain for, and you're going to look at the Motr Sich factory again in Zaporozhye, not just tens of thousands of workers. It's not just the best engines in the world, we're all flying with you today to our JK-40. It's still a technique, domestic technology, it's a necessary agricultural technology that the plant produces without government orders. If we do that, we'll raise the whole industry called the machine building. More. I'm not happy with the report of the committee and the ministry, why don't you call the anti-heroes, why don't you talk about the enemies who are torpedoing the adoption of this law today. The country must know these poor heroes. Most importantly, we must follow through on the adoption of the Aviation Area Act. Ukrainian aircraft and Ukrainians must fly in Ukraine. And I warn those who, God forbid, vote against this law. Fear the law of God. I think your hands are dry after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, all who signed up for the performances, spoke. What question? What's the line? From the committee, there's no such thing. If you have a procedure, then request a word from the procedure. It's gonna be okay. All of it. Dear colleagues, what are some other observations? Is there a need for the Ministry to speak? First Deputy Minister, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank you for your unanimity support for the bill. And a few digits. I said 50,000 jobs in Ukraine alone, 50,000. If you're talking about a possible number of orders. If we get to our competitor of the European, Western European A-400M, we can count from 600 to 800 orders in the world. And as for the Russian generals. You see, today the aviation market, the international aviation market, is a very aggressive environment. And that's why Western Europe is doing its best to break up our project. We're fighting for it to stay and develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u205	Thank you. I can only give you my word from the procedure. Assadchev, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u206	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, we vote in the first reading, but it doesn't matter. I just want to say to some people who fought very heroically here for this program that you've already lost. And I want to tell you that this program has not been lost for the first time. They started funding it, then stopped it. Now they're going to fund it again, and they're going to stop it again. Because they do these programs in Iran because they don't come out of the stands, and people sit there and calculate the numbers. You're doing the program by the 22nd year, it takes 18 years to run the program. No reckoning, no one, not even the Budget Committee, has considered the matter! And you want it to be done? That's all the "verbal interlocutors" you talked about on the stand, and it'll be over. Until this program is joined by economists, budgeters will not develop all the numbers, so it will be executed as it is done in Iran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a comment to the National Deputy of Assadchev. It's not a bogeyman. And you've got a committee to look at. Because in this case, you look just like you say. The committee made no comment. And you better work, and don't give the National Deputies credit! It's not your right to judge! The review of the draft law on the state-wide programme for the development of the AN-70 military transport aircraft and its procurement under state defence orders has been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. Dear national MPs, we need to consult. We have a long-standing draft of the 2004 Housing Minimum Act. One thing is, we can agree with him or not, but they say that this document is in the Supreme Council. If you don't mind, we would now report on this, and then we would be determined by vote. We support or we don't support -- then the government will decide on another decision. Please. What procedure? Please proceed with the procedure of the People's Deputy Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. If you don't mind, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u208	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. When we adopted the Housing Minimum Act in the past, we thought that this would really be the basic social standard law for our country, we thought that article 46 of the Constitution would be implemented, which stipulates that all payments could not be less than the subsistence minimum. What we're getting at right now is that there's not enough 358 dollars is a living minimum in Ukraine, ask anyone on the street. It's not enough that the government uses a surrogate called "guaranteed minimum" and the real social benefits are three times less than the number provided for in the law, so we're still talking about this issue under a reduced procedure in the five-minute schedule that ended before the plenary meeting. I think this approach to basic social standards is demeaning the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you think we can discuss the minimum of living in this mode, please, but I don't think so. Our faction needs or requires a full discussion of the matter with all its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! Whenever there is a need to speak, no one has been banned. I was only thinking about it, and I offered it to you. Just a minute. I've only suggested this, fellow officers, because the Law, I agree with you, does not reflect the need, the minimum needs, but this law lies with us and they say, "The Supreme Council has not been defined." Then the Supreme Council would have to identify itself and say, ‘ He is fit or not, ’ for the ball in the field of the Supreme Council is located. Let's think about who wants to speak, and then let's define by vote. We'll listen to anyone who wants to. Please, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The fact is that what he wasn't, this law, in its consideration of fullness, this statement doesn't exactly fit the reality. We have listened to this law and listened to it fully in the Supreme Council, taking into account the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We are now submitting, in exchange for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Act on the Approval of the Living Minimum for 2004, which provides for an increase of living minimum by an average of 49 copies per person. Yes, here you can say that this is not enough. But I would like to remind the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine that the subsistence minimum is for the main social and demographic groups. It is calculated in a normative way, based on food sets, non-food products and a set of services approved by scientific and civic expertise on the principles of social partnership. That is, it includes experts from both the Ukrainian trade unions, employers of Ukraine and scientists, and representatives from the executive authorities of the state. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to approve this law, because today we have a huge problem in the subsidy departments. There are people who have to account for subsidies coming from the family’s total income, and this accounts for, for example, 365 dollars for a working person. A person who has 368, he is already losing his right to receive a grant. This law provides for the amount of 382 bracelets, that is, those people who are today in the range of 365 bracelets to 382 bracelets are now losing their entitlement to benefits, subsidies. In addition, these accounts are used for the purpose of giving birth to a child, a burial. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I ask you to support this bill so that citizens of Ukraine can receive the social costs that are provided for by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u211	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. Come on, please. Is there a need to speak from the committee? No, no, I mean. Please, Basil Georgiyovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I wish to recall very briefly the background of this issue. You may not remember, I'm just reminding you. We had received the first draft of the Cabinet of Ministers in September, and when we considered it at the meeting of the Committee, we did not agree. And you know that's the procedure for consideration, there's a pattern that reads the standard. We didn't just agree because of the calculations. The bill that we received in September took into account the June-month prices, and we know with you that, in the autumn, rising prices for bread and other products changed the price ratio, so we have invited the Cabinet of Ministers to withdraw the bill, to revise the new price base, as has been done. On 27 November, we received the bill that we have today. I remind you that calculations are made in a normative way and are objective and we can say we like them, we don't like them. If we want to change something, we need to change the basic law, and if we want to develop a method of calculating the minimum of living, by the way, I have passed such a bill, unfortunately, the Supreme Council in this room has not supported the revision of the basic law, which establishes the rules for calculating the subsistence minimum. Therefore, the rules applied today by the Cabinet of Ministers are objective and must be adopted. In view of the fact that the second month of 2004, and understanding that the subsistence minimum is an estimate of the standard of living in the State and, above all, establishes the levels of State benefits and benefits until we accept them, the previous ones will apply. Therefore, there is a proposal to adopt it as a whole. And as the law had previously spoken with Yuri Anatolievich, he would have a proposal to adopt it only in the first half of the year and to revise it from the second. Well, I would like to tell you that, in accordance with article 4 of the Housing Minimum Act, the minimum standard of living for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers is reviewed periodically and in line with the increase in the consumer price index and with the refinement of the budget. We will have the opportunity, if necessary, to review the minimum of living standards, well, those that are available today, please support and accept that benefits are designed to increase all social benefits in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u213	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Now, stay in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, you and I are entering a conflict with the Rules. In accordance with one article, you and I must conclude our meetings. According to the second article, we do not have the right to interrupt the consideration of the matter if we have started it. So I'm asking the consent of the room to complete the discussion of the issue that we started. There'll be no objection? Thank you. Then. Any questions? We'll talk, we'll talk. Please, Melniczuk and Ponomarenko. Melniczuk is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u214	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I don't like the committee's representatives any more than I do to the minister. I know that under the direction of Michael Mikolaiovich, many steps are being taken to improve the ministry's work and generally in the social direction. But it's different. We have a situation with you when our bread prices have risen tens of times already. And we don't even call the prices, 5 bracelets of a loaf of bread. When we stop embarrassing Ukraine by raising 16 dollars and saying it's in the human direction. And for that reason, I have a question, if this is about the reporter that's on the stand, I want to ask this question. When you estimate that the Ukrainian people will get 450 dollars, let's say that what you're saying today is that we're going to increase by 16 dollars when we vote for 450 dollars in what year, what year is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u215	I'm answering the question. If we go as fast as we do today, it could be two years from now. Because today, if you have the standards that are applied, the minimum of living age is, let's say, 400 bracelets are set for children between 6 and 18 years of age. If at this rate, two years from now, if we do not change the method of calculation, it must be significantly improved than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u216	Yes, dear fellows, don't be alarmed. Pomarenko. Yes, have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given by the national deputy Bespali. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u217	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, it's very unfortunate that we're discussing such an important issue in the short run. Perhaps this is because this law is not a direct act at all. So that means everyone won't spend as much money, even as much as the cost of living is going to be. But this is already a concrete basis for establishing all state guarantees, benefits, compensations, and tomorrow the Constitution provides for what Viacheslav Kirilenko has been talking about, and the faction "Our Ukraine" insists that no Ukrainian should receive and have no right to receive less income than this subsistence minimum. So it's not pay, it's pension, it's social pay. If this is the primary source of existence, it cannot be less than a minimum of living. But is the government's offer of a "profit minimum" really viable? Can you live on it? I also welcome the Ministry's efforts, which is really trying to do things, but one thing is trying to do good things, another thing -- which is what comes out of it. Now 342 bracelets are defined, that's the minimum of living. What is proposed? Just think about it! They took the basic cost of the May bills, that is to say, the price increases. Then they found out, yes, you can't take it for May, because that's up to the price hike. And on the basis of May prices, we were offered, more loyally, the citizens of Ukraine, 356 dollars and four copies. Then they took the price increase, and they took it all into account. What happened? Prices have risen, and a living minimum of 358 coins are offered. So it turns out that during this whole period of price rise actually, well everybody knows that it happened very quickly, that the prices of food and the goods of the first need have increased, the government says that we counted. But the result was two bracelets. Well, I think it's just a rather cynical approach. Those prices that are there in the calculation basket, well these are prices to buy except that second-hand. I mean, isn't Ukraine worth a better fate than living by the standards of second-hand? So I'm just taking advantage of the opportunity that there is here, and that's a good thing that represents the minister himself who deals with these issues. I would like to ask the honourable Mr Papiev once again to call off this project because he is hopelessly out of date and to make that proposal, which is more consistent with the current state of affairs in February 2004. Because I'm sure we don't have the right to maintain such a low level of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u218	Yeah, one-on-one. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u219	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! You and I have failed this bill, which was introduced by the government earlier. At that time, 356 bracelets and four coins were offered. Now we're given 358 and 49 copies. So we've been fighting with you for one 55-dollar bracelet, which has actually turned negative for people so far, because today, February 4th, and January, all the recalculations are made at old prices and made at an old minimum of living, at least in 2003. So we wanted to do better, did worse, but the government didn't go forward either. Why didn't the government move forward? Not because poor Papieuve, Papieuve represents the political power he represents, but is trying at least, I can say that this is one of those ministers who is trying and working at night and all. But, Your Honor, Mr Papiev, Mr. Minister! You're well aware that you've raised the main categories of children by two bracelets of 53. Children under 18 years of age at 1.70, working people at 40, and those who have lost their jobs you've just predicted 40 extras per bracelet, and you've only predicted 281 bracelets. In this way, it has not been considered that those who have lost their jobs should throw at least 50 dollars a month into medicine. I'd like the Ministry of Economics, which no one represents here today, because we don't have the Ministry of Economics. We had a piano there, and now there's no such thing as a ministry. Then should we not foresaw the cures of the sick? So now there are two ways out. You go left, you go wrong, you go right, you go wrong. And I agree with the head of the committee, Hara, I approached him and made an offer. I told him, because the situation is critical and the method is the same. At least it's wrong and it's anti-national, we need to now make decisions, vote on changing the government's methodology, if we don't change the methodology, we're going to have the same numbers all the time. Methodology needs to be changed. Methodism is the first. The other one. I suggest the government needs to be changed too. I suggest that now that we make the decision to approve, we don't immediately approve in two readings, we make at least one amendment. To confirm in the first half of the year, we lost the month, in the first half of 2004 and beyond. What are we going to win? And we're still giving the government a mandate to change the methodology. We're going to win the fact that people, as soon as they start counting at higher cost. Still, at least since June, we'll be in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u220	Thank you. We'll assume you've supported it. So one against one, one. Well, yeah, I guess. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u221	Thank you. [[The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko]] I'd actually like to point out that, you know, there was good math here in the previous speech, but not a very good proposal. Well, of course we know where the road is built with good intentions. Of course, there are good intentions here. Well, they don't lead to where those good intentions would lead. They lead to hell. And to explain to people that you've got an increased living minimum of 56 bracelets is like going to the village right now and explaining to people, "You know, you've been promoted to 2 bracelets." I just got back from the regions, and my claims were like, "Well, here you are.".. I'm saying, first of all, not us, not me, but the right specific people, is the government that gave you this opportunity to recalculate. You've been given, you've counted, people. My friends, my relatives, there, counting, there, the salary they were looking for, everything, they were happy to share the amount they were going to get -- and here's bah: two bracelet raises. Well, that was bullying. Well, you know, that's what people thought. It was abuse of them, of their faith, at least in some ephemeral justice. After rejecting the first bill, we received the second one, where the promotion increased to a bracelet of 56. Well, of course it's a big sum. If you multiply by 12, then by 50 million, or by 45, how much is left. That's how you count it. But in fact, it's not the method that needs to be changed, and it's not the way that we need to change -- we just have to change the way we treat people. Because man is the main source of funding coming into the state budget, nothing else. Because all the values here are created by humans. And it's true that some of these people, when they steal money, they take it. But they're individual people. Well, let's think about the rest of the people. And that's why I'm stressing again. I don't know if we need to change the methodology here or not, or whether we need to change the government, but we need to change something, believe me. I suggest that while we change the government and the methodology, I suggest that the government just go back and work again, so that we don't fail here, in this room, or choke -- these are two synonyms of "break" and "sale" -- this bill. Well, I'm asking Minister Papiev to make a proposal and a minimum-of-living scheme that could be offered to those to whom it is directed. That's what's done for people, for them. To protect them socially. And how can we socially protect them for bracelet 56? That's it. This abuse is perceived. So let's take it easy, calmly, in a balanced way. I don't know, any method or anything, but given a real increase, a real increase in living minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u222	Andrew, are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u223	No, no, no, no, Against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u224	Thank you. Yes, wait, Yuri Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we have a reduced procedure of 2 in, 2 in. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u225	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are witnessing today that Ukraine's capitalist party is not registered with the Ministry of Justice, which consists of two wings. The first wing is the majority of the president's and he's faced with bourgeois opposition. And there was this bourgeois opposition to me that made crocodile tears about what I am. The Ukrainian people have been held captive by the Presidential Bolsheviks. It's one office! And these people need to understand. So I want to tell those who listen to us and here in the session room and outside the session hall. The Communist Party of Ukraine has declared to stop both Kuchma and Yushchenka, and the Presidential Bolsheviks, and this bourgeois disgraceful opposition. And only in this case can our people get rid of this enslavement and finally decide their fate as he sees fit. And to those who are now pouring crocodile tears, I suggest you and I go to the alien zone, there in Green Miss, I will prepare a camp for you, and we'll do the deactivation together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u226	Dear colleagues! The question is closed. Please, Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would still like to hear fair things here. The increase did not take place on the bracelet of 50, as was said, but the increase was a minimum of 49, while the increase was up to 20. In addition, there are methods that honor the national MPs of Ukraine. So it's not emotion, it's methodology. We took, calculated the minimum of living for all 12 months of 2003 and took the highest score. Because if we were to, for example, October of the month, our livelihood minimum was 11 dollars less. We took and went on the most difficult path, we took the largest figure of living minimum, and now we've passed it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If anyone has doubts, I agree that you can make a special temporary commission, check every number, but I guarantee that each number is calculated on a tripartite basis, by independent experts, and the increase was at least 16 even 49. I'm still asking for your support, because today tens of thousands of families can't get subsidies and benefits, because there's a little bit of living minimum for total income. Let us consider these families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-04-m0.u228	Thank you, Michael Mikolaiovich. I think we'll do it this way. We'll ask your biggest supporter in this session room, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, to come to you, and you work as he said late, you'd sit down, you'd sit down, and you'd show him that the methodology's been followed, and then we wouldn't create any more committees. The replicas. No one called Kirilenka, no reply, question discussed, finished. Thank you, dear friends. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed.
