ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:17]] Registered -441 There were 441 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich, Podobedov Sergio Mikolaiovich and Sulkovski Pavel Gnatovic. Let's welcome them on their birthdays and wish them all the best. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? As soon as the Conciliation Council met, we agreed on our schedule for this plenary week, agreed that we should make every effort to make this plenary week work. We also agreed that on Wednesday we would work all day, taking a break from 14 to 16 hours, so that on Friday we could consider only the essential questions and sum up the work of this session. We also agreed that the evening session would continue for one hour, that is, until 19 hours during the full plenary week. But in order for these proposals to become legal, I need to put them to a vote. May I have your attention, please? So I'm putting the vote first so we can work full-time on Wednesday. Please vote. [[10:03:53]] For 358 Decision taken. I'm voting on the second proposal that we continue our evening session on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, for one hour, that is to say 19 hours. Please vote. [[10:04:22]] For 264 Decision taken. A draft of the Codex Forest of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. New edition, two projects. Registration number 3459, 3459-1. Reporters are a national MP. What? Dear colleagues, we just agreed to the Conciliation Council, so we didn't give up. You'll get it all up now. But faction leaders have these documents and committee heads. A draft of the Ukrainian Forest Code, a new edition, is being announced for consideration. Reporters are national deputy Yuri Karmazin, as well as the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. Let's make that rule. Reporters - up to five minutes, answers to questions - up to three minutes and discussions - within 15 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, invite you to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u2	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution, are subjects of Ukrainian ownership. The Ukrainian people, I would stress. On behalf of the Ukrainian people, the rights of the owner are exercised by the authorities and local authorities within the limits defined by the Constitution. Wood in the sense of wood formed as a result of natural growth and development is a natural resource and must be implemented for the benefit of the Ukrainian people regardless of how they are removed from use. Ukraine’s total land area is 9,000. 400,000. Yeah, they're three grand in the area of the pine forests. [[pine and tree]] 969, that's 42.4 square meters of solid rock, that's 4 grand. [[dub, dub, dub, dub, ……]] 64,000. It is 43.2 square feet [1,282,000 square feet] of brass, and it is 1,282 thousand square feet [1,282 sq m]. [[berza, osaka]] This is 13.6. I also draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine's forest security is extremely unsatisfactory and is the lowest in Europe. Our green Ukraine is the lowest forest saturation in Europe. The average forest is 41.3 and the average forest area is 1.3. It's in Europe. In Ukraine these figures are 15.6, almost three times lower than in Europe. And 0.2 hectares per person. This is six times lower than in Europe. In addition, forests that are not actually forests have been taken to their warehouses in recent years. Almost 50 percent of forests are forest crops and do not reach the middle age. These are the data from the Institute of Botanics of the Cold National Academy of Sciences. Because of the inefficient management of Ukrainian forests, the owner of natural resources, the Ukrainian people, does not get any revenue in a year. Forest - based enterprises do not pay taxes on land, on a land of forestry. In recent times, there has been a steady trend towards the predominance of the volume of wood produced by the non-intermediate use of taxes, 54.2. Over the amount of wood, there's 45.8 in the order of the main use. This is evidence of an overcrowding in forest management, especially in sanitary areas. An analysis of existing legislation gave reason to believe that the Ukrainian Forest Code, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine back in 1994, did not correspond to modern economic relations. Higher education subjects, state forestry enterprises, have no responsibility for their activities. Hundreds of millions of dollars the state’s budget is lost as a result of the release. farm enterprises that are provided with land for permanent use, including land covered with forest vegetation. Stocks of wood from land tax payments. The features of the Forest Code project that we are proposing and the main focus are its specificity and simplicity in the use of modern economic relations. We propose to prohibit the same legal person from meeting the functions of government administration in the areas of protection, protection, use of forest funds and forest management, implementation. the use and processing of wood, the monitoring functions of the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources have been increased with the rational use of forest resources defined by forest land, and the mandatory payment of land taxes has been established. The project also proposes to regulate the following rights: materialize the constitutional rights conferred on the authorities of the State and local self - government authorities, bring the basic positions of the Government closer to deepening the land reform in the forest sector, as declared in the Code of Land, to identify land as a destination for forestry, and forest management. Forest economic activity, order of origin, exercise, cessation and protection of land use rights and the rights to use forest areas, forest resources. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to quote a statement by journalist Svetlana Isaacenko in the paper "The Gem of the Week," and I quote, "In today's growth, pre-industrial-gendarmerie has taken away the forest workers, they've become forest growers, and they don't want to do ancient, once very profitable jobs, like the medevac from forest pastures, mushroom cooking, berries, forest-rich herbs."..
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u3	Allow us to finish Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u4	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u5	No, I mean, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u6	Just considering numerous media publications, examining other critical reports, the causes and consequences of the catastrophic events that are taking place periodically in various parts of Ukraine, including in Zakarpat, we have come up with a new edition of the Forest Code. I'm just going to say that in the drafting of this code, the people's deputies participated in various MP groups and factions. He's completely apolitical. Also known are Schlapak Vladimir Petrovich, doctor of technical sciences, Djachenko Yakov Yakovic, head of economics, professor, doctor of science, Bobko Andry Mikolaiovich, and many others. I would like to support this codex in the first reading, which was made in exchange for the handover. And now we are very grateful to all who have made further comments. We have already developed and improved this codex. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Then there's Nadjajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u8	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." I give the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u9	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u10	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewecka District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, we are all aware of the consequences of the so-called management of some political parties of financial and oligarchic orientation in the Zakarpathian region, which have turned into an extraordinary disaster not only for the Carpathian region but for the whole of the Carpathian region: the floods are devastating and so on. I represent a district that is largely part of the Bucuinian part of Carpathian. Of course, we do not have such acute problems as in Zakarpat, but something similar sometimes happens. Can this codex protect against such thoughtless deforestation?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u11	I thank you, Georgiy Mikolaiovich, for your and your civic position, and for your support of the best in this sense. I want to say that our code also provides for the Constitution, that it is the authorities of local self-government, not the district governments, that are transferred to ownership, that they are committed to continuous use, and that they are leased forests on land of state property within the respective territory. We also take advantage of the environmental context, write how. We put in a fee for the resources of wood that removes the subjects of farming, because today’s terrible situation, you said it right. The real price of a carpathian oak is $500, today 500 euros in Germany is the real price of wood. You know how much it's exported, how it's exported through your regions at night: through Chernivetsk, Ivano-Frankivsk, Lvivsk and all of these areas. If we put in the normal rules what we're proposing right now, I think it'll stop what's going on. It will be in the interests of all the Ukrainian people. I don't want to politicize and say, there's one political force, there's a friend. The circle is the political forces. But it's a matter of survival today of the Ukrainian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u12	Yes, Anatoly Nostawayko gives Vladimir Lechchenka the right to speak, please. The right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u13	Thank you. Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, well, first of all, thank you for being the initiator of the Forest Code, because in fact, there is a need for order in the forests and especially with the use of forest resources. But the basis for drafting this code was the Earth Codex. Please tell us how it relates to your project with a valid Earth code and how you feel about the comments that have been made to you at the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u14	I thank you very much, Vladimir Alexiyovich, for noting, but in fact my role here was more of a dispatcher in this writing and in legal matters. This is the first time. And the second. My role was that I could not delay further with what was happening, and since 1994 I have not been able to introduce the draft code, then I have taken the lead of this group of developers. And the third. I carefully worked on all the comments made on the Agrarian Policy Committee. I made a table of them, and we're ready to take into account all the suggestions that were made. You know, I didn't vote for the Earth Code in the end, but where they need to be put together, the Forest and the Earth Code, that's where they need to be, otherwise they're different. Since 1994, the Forest, and the Earth, you know, only a few years. So the land, the land of farming, we have to bring in those categories that are in line with the Earth Code. I mean, to seduce one another. I'm taking into account the suggestions I have. I think that's what's going to happen on the second reading. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u15	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Valérie Samoplojski has the word as the author of one of the bills, as well as as as a representative of the committee, i.e. in two positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u16	Deep-haired Volodymira Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The process that is taking place in politics and the economy requires the alignment of existing forest legislation with the laws of Ukraine that have been adopted since 1994 relating to forest relations, as well as its bringing it into line with modern social, economic and legal relations that have emerged in the state. The basic position of the project and the only government administration in forest relations. I underline that the bill takes into account the equality of ownership of the forests of citizens, legal persons, territorial communities and states, as well as the State's guarantees of the exercise by citizens, legal persons and territorial communities of its rights in terms of forest ownership, management and management, the integration of the characteristics of forests as an environmental stabilizing factor, natural resources and means of production. The object of forest relations is defined by all forests, regardless of where they grow, namely, the land of the Forest Fund, the land of conservation, the land of defense, and others, as well as the forest’s protection strips and other linear plantings of 0.1 hectares. Although they are excluded from the Lands of the Forest Fund by the Earth Code, which does not take into account European experience. The draft law does not allow, I stress, the performance of public administration functions and the control of economic structures. Taking into account the length of forest management, the extremely important environmental and limited use of forests in Ukraine determines the right to maintain forest management only under conditions of continuous use of forests. In the draft of the Forest Code, dealing with the temporary use of forest resources, including on lease terms, without removing forests from permanent users, and only for specific uses of forest resources, it's hay cooking, livestock grazing, mushroom harvesting, berries, etc. The use of forests for hunting, health, recreation, and other purposes is also carried out on lease terms without the removal of land from permanent users. Suborendance and redemption of leased areas are prohibited. Citizens have the right to dwell freely in forests, to collect flowers, berries, nuts, mushrooms, and so forth for free. The main tasks of government regulation and governance in the area of forest relations have been defined, and the powers of legislative and executive authorities have been clarified. The transfer of forests to ownership, the granting of permanent use, the temporary use of leases on land of state property outside the populated areas, attributed to the competence of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Crimea of the Autonomous and District State Administrations. Forest-based enterprises are not established according to territorial principle, they are made up of land in several areas, it is 3-4, even up to 8, in large areas. Therefore, the decision on the granting and removal of land for forest management should be referred to the authority of district government administrations. In particular, there is a pattern of economic stimulus for the introduction of measures for the expansion of forests. I believe that these basic provisions of the new Forest legislation create all the preconditions for keeping the forest farm under constant development, the fullest use of the economic and resource potential of forests. The bill is based on the Constitution of Ukraine, the Earth Code, the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, animal world, and so on. Leading scientists from the Institute of Ecology of Carpathian and the Council of Productive Forces of Ukraine of the National Agrarian University, the Ukrainian Forestry University, the Research Institute of Forestry and Agriculture, other institutions and organizations participated actively in the development of this project of the Forest Code. So what I want to say is thank you very much for the fruitful cooperation of the Dove Academy, Professor Kowala, Professor Krinicka, Professor Latida, member of Soroczynski Koru, Maur Professor, Tkachu, Vakuluku, many others. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and is proposed to be based on it. In general, the bill is commended for the results of state environmental expertise, in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I propose to support the draft of the Ukrainian Forest Codex in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u17	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Three minutes. Please, Yuri Klukkowski. Get ready for Pellcake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u18	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Ours in Ukraine". I'd like to ask a distinguished reporter. Please tell us, how will the adoption of the new Forest Code affect the situation that we have today in the Carpathians, where the conservation forests are simply completely destroyed, and under the form of sanitary sections, there are substantial sections of what certain firms have, as it were, a roof on the part of high officials? What additional mechanisms have been put in place to close these abuses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. The thing is, in Carpathians, it's not an environmental problem, it's an economic issue. The point is, what is it? By 1991, all logging facilities, including those in the Carpathians, had been run by government structures. After the events that took place in 1991 in the Carpathian region, I emphasize that legislation was granted the right of the section of primary use to all. And the governors of the district, that is, the heads of the state’s district administrations, followed the path of least resistance. Hundreds and hundreds of private structures have been provided with logging. But they cut the standard clearly because the State Committee on Forestry is monitoring it. In the other 22 areas of Ukraine, logging has so far been conducted exclusively by state - owned enterprises. And the bill, which I have the honour to present today, stipulates that in Carpathians the exclusive right to logging will only be granted to state-owned enterprises. That is, businesses that are constantly being used by forests. And I think that's going to change the thinking of people who live in this country. Because if those who do not have any bearing on the forest but simply come to win dividends, to earn money for logging, this question will forever be put not only in this room but also in the general public of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u20	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u21	Dear Valery Ivanovich! We Zaporozhye deputies have followed the two projects very closely, and today the faction has been actively discussing the issue. The faction and the Zaporozhye deputies will support your option. And that's why: you have a very clear picture of the situation as Zaporozhye. By taking the lead in the territory, the population, we take up one of the last places in the forest. So, thanks to your draft Codex, this imbalance can be eliminated. And my question is: that in principle is not acceptable in an alternative and vice versa, are there provisions that can be taken into account in your version?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u22	Thank you for your support and your questions. It is not right for me to criticize the bill presented by the people’s deputies. I think the evaluation should be given to you. I just don't agree with certain positions, because unfortunately, in the preparation of the bill, there were experts who did not fully own the situation that occurred in the forest economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u23	Anatoly Frost has a word for Phydenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u24	Your Honor, I have two questions. Today, you know, in connection with the collapse of agricultural enterprises, I'm talking about colognes, radospas, and so on, they're like farmless logging. And when they meet with voters, they ask a lot of questions, because, say, the farmer's land and there's the logging, they don't let the son get mowed there, they don't let the mushrooms collect and so on, and so on, there's a struggle between the village councils, these farm farms, whose land it is. So I think in the Code we need to determine that this is, in fact, the state and the state are in charge or the local authorities are in charge. That's the first one. And the second. Really. Today, illegal arbitrary scarring is found in forests and logging. In recent years there has been an increase in numbers. When will this end? How do you see the organization of this work in order with the logging and forest plantings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. Answering the first question. In Ukraine, there are 10 million. ha all forests in constant use of 7 million 200,000 are located in enterprises of the State Forestry Committee, and 26 percent, I emphasize, this is a huge area, it's 2.5 million hectares of forests, it's forests of former colonies and racons. When the reform began, when the land began to decompose, the forests and forests — more than 400,000 acres [400,000 ha] — were left without a host. Half of these forests, I emphasize, half of them were created by agriforests and district councils, district administrations, then they were given to use these enterprises. That's half. Sadly, however, another half of the forests are without a host. Examples include the Radomisl district, the unprincipled position of head of the district, and government, and other areas where the issue has not been resolved. And according to the new Forest Code, we're going to solve this. The second question is about willful labor. It's really a disaster, it's really a disaster, it's a disaster, especially in the Carpathians, in the Carpathians, in the Carpathians, and the bodies of the forest management are doing everything they can to overcome this natural, I emphasize, evil and phenomenon. Sadly, though, we do not yet have the understanding of law enforcement or courts. In the past year, only 5 percent of all the cases that we brought to trial were concluded, I would stress, 5 percent. 95 percent was left unanswered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u26	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich, please sit down. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u27	I'm still the committee's decision, I'm in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u28	Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u29	As a member of the environmental committee, I am asked to read out the decisions on these two bills. The committee decided: first, to support the draft of the Code of Forests proposed by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, Chersun, to bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council, as we have done, and to recommend that it be adopted on the basis of the individual provisions of the Code of Forests of Ukraine, as introduced by Karmazin, Zaym, other people's deputies in the process of further reading. Sherschun and I have spoken with the National Deputies, and all that has been better introduced by Zajim and Karmazin, the deeply respected deputies, will be taken into account in preparing for the second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u30	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes to talk. Explain the names of the national deputies on the panel that are listed for the presentations. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Before giving a clear picture of these two codes, I would like to ask myself and you a question: What is the Forest Codex for? For that, I think it's to protect the woods. And the project proposed by the people's deputies, Karmazin, Zaj and others, the previous one, which was being considered, protects the forests. So it's not just supposed to be a list of certain laws, it shouldn't just be a dry approach to the facts that exist today in Ukraine, it should be a clear law, a clear code that protects Ukrainian forests, protects against illegal logging, protects against looting, and so on. What are the biggest differences between the two projects? Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that there's such a significant and very convoluted difference here is whether there's a district administration and a district government or a state, or whether the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is going to decide how many tons of possible forest can be cut down, or whether it's going to be Kiev that's responsible for the state's position and for the state in principle. I mean, according to the history of the world forest, there were only two hands in the hands of the state, the community, or the private. Now we want to pass on the bill proposed by the People's Deputies with Samoplane-Shershun 3459-1 into the hands of the administration, into the hands of the district councils. We don't have the right to do that, I'd say, in principle, and we don't need any structures. Because the fate of the Code of Earth is a long way to go, but the fate of administrative reform is not beyond the old bill. And I am convinced that Ukraine must and must give up the district division. So the approach should be clear and clear. It's supposed to be run by the whole state. So when we talk about the codex, the Forest Code should be a list of laws that protect forest plantings that prevent illegal deforestation. So let's look at the painting now. With whom is Beardchuk arranged to cut down the woods? What happened at Zakarpat? Who's to blame for this?? A double responsibility for this. They had to leave only because the local administration was making money, and I emphasize that it was stealing coins, lowering the state. At Kiev, of course, something can also be bought or sold. But this control will be better and more consistent. Thus, it is not the local authorities, and district administrations are transferring forests to ownership, making permanent use of forest rentals on the land of state ownership in the territory concerned, as well as within the boundaries of the cities of district subordination. This is said in the bill of ours. That's why I'm convinced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u32	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u33	Dear Legislators, our constituents! Today we are looking at one of the basic bills, its refinement, its modernization. Basic for the functioning of the state, for the functioning of the Ukrainian nation today, tomorrow and in the future. The forest for Ukraine and for Ukrainians is a multifunctional concept: economic, and environmental, and if you want political, because it has played a big role in our history as a refuge. Today we're looking at a process that's threatening, when, in fact, the forest was an absolute monopoly of the state, just the state, and in some ways the colgs and everyone, today the attempt to move on to another form of farming did not take place, and I have the impression that the forest, the concept of the forest, and that's over 10 million hectares of Ukrainian forested, so it is, it's being treated, it's actually almost nightly today. In my district, for example, the amazing forests that are sold to Poland are simply like coils, and after a very short period of time, they return to Ukraine with exquisite furniture in which the price rises by tens and hundreds of times. I also want to pay attention to the kind of rudimentary that we have today, it's in the territory of my district, it's called military forestry. It must be assumed that our army has its own forestry, which in fact has absolutely no control over the public, but is controlled only by the military itself. Let's say that in my district, these forests are just being cut off for military purposes, but no one controls it at all. I'm not talking about the tens or hundreds of forest arrays under Kiev that were considered untouchable yesterday. So, does that answer these questions, I've only put very briefly some of them, let's say, those bills that we have? I'm the co-author of the bill that was reported by Yuri Carmazin. We worked with a large group of professional people who are independent of government, completely independent of government. That's why we offered that version that takes away the monopoly of power. I understand Samowoski, he's a beautiful forestman, he's led this structure for a long time. But, Mr. Valeria, the bill still feels like I won't give it up, let's not let it go, the committee won't let it out of its hands. I'm sure. That if we shut down, freeze this trend, we'll lose our pension at all. They've already said what they did to make Medvedchuk in Zakarpatta.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u34	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Sovkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u35	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! First of all, allow me to thank the author’s team, led by Karmazin, who drafted Bill 3459. I can say without any warning that it is the initiative of this group that has led to the beginning of this process that has accelerated this process of creating a new edition of the Forest Code. And for that, I want to thank these people. The woods are in danger! All the woods! And we have to admit that to everyone. And if we recognize this particular thesis, then we're really going to find ways out of this situation. Such claims are not only fair in terms of the Carpathian region’s forests, where the lower limit of the forests is probably 100 or 150 meters [150 m] or the upper limit of the forests has been reduced to the same distance. That's why we have, ecologically, environmentally unstable ecological forest systems. And we need to save the Ukrainian forests today. This claim is also true of the forests around the cities, particularly in Kiev. Now, there's a recent epepoch about the forests of Feofania, where the National Academy of Sciences, at the request of the Ukrainian National Deputies, gives 30 hectares of forest to housing or other things -- these are things that aren't allowed. And that's why I'm here and I'm talking to the Ukrainian people's deputies, so don't encourage such attitudes, it doesn't destroy forests today, it doesn't destroy natural ecosystems today, because we're in environmental danger today. If these two bills are appreciated, it can be said that they complement each other. For example, I cannot agree with article 32 of Bill 3459-1, paragraph 4, which states that public administrations will make their own decisions. We used to think that let's give this function of authority to the executives, and they'll make operational decisions. Today’s practice shows that this function needs to be given to the councils, and on the boards it is better discussed. The second question. I'm afraid that if we refuse to divide the forests into groups of the first there, the second group, and we move on to protection categories, so that we don't lose once again large protective arrays. So I'm drawing attention to this side as well. And the third. We need administrative reform, we need the entire management of natural resources to bring together a bunch today. We need to get the farm function out of the management function today. And only in these directions can we really build a normal management system of natural resources, including forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u36	Vladimir Sovkovich. Please prepare Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u37	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words about draft Code 3459, this is the Codex Carmazin. The forestry term, John the Rabbit, was highly praised by the creative group that developed the codex. But the question is, the forestry terms used in the law are controversial. Moreover, some people’s interpretations are not clear; they have two meanings. For example, the project uses such terms as forest - covered areas, areas, covered, forest vegetation, land, forest covered vegetation, other forest - covered areas, and so forth. This is quite dangerous after the codex has entered into force. There is no such term as the land of forestry in the Land Code or the 1994 Forest Code, nor in any normative documentation. In general, article four needs to be thoroughly processed. Forest management is contrary to other articles and is generally unacceptable to individual functional categories of forests and forests of individual natural areas. What do I mean? For example, in Crimea in mountain areas or in Zaporozhye, or in the plains, how can a forest - management work be conducted? There's only natural conservation in the woods. You can't do that at all. That is, we also need to work on this issue. And the next. I did not find in any of the laws, in the forest legislation of European countries, such that forest management, or development of forest management organizations, was carried out by the forestry industry itself. So I design, I cut, I control myself. Absurd. How, then, can national forest policy be put in place, and with what mechanisms? I think it's very dangerous. The main thing is the proposed transfer of forest management functions to entrepreneurial activities. I've never been in a forest, a forest business. But I think it's unacceptable. Because this codex reminds me of the Russian codex. I read it. But in Russia, one billion cubic metres of forest. We have 10 million cubes of forest. In Russia, we can be transferred to a concession. We need to protect the forest. I believe that this code needs to be worked out and that it cannot be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u38	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u39	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The Analytical Advisory Council at the Cabinet of Ministers studied the forest management of Ukraine for a year and a half. In itself, the economy in the state's budget has a very small contribution -- no more than 0.3 percent. Forestry exports also account for less than 0.3 percent of the country’s exports. And so how does the forest farm work? In general, the state's economy has no significant influence. But as forest management works, it has a very important impact on the state's ecology. And so the problem of forest conservation, the problem of using forests to enrich the population that works in those forests. is very important. Surrounding the woods are inhabited areas. Under the current Forest Code, actually populated areas have no benefit from what is happening in the exploitation of forests. All the costs associated with the support fee and so forth go to district administrations, district administrations, and in fact the local population does not benefit from the fact that there are forests that are exploiting their forests. All of this needs to be changed in the future of the Forest Codex. There is also the question of the exploitation of the forest. The operation of the forest is done in two ways: through so - called main - use edges and by the way of the branches of care. And that's where the business wood comes in. But for the commercial wood that results from the staples of the main use, the price is paid. For that other, orderly lookout, no salary is paid. This is wrong, and it has to be changed too. It's about the pay-per-view. Ukraine’s top prize is, perhaps, the lowest of all the world’s onslaughts. It has to be adjusted accordingly, thus changed to such an extent that even if the revenues arising from the exploitation of the forest were to cover the cost of the budget to sustain forest management. That is, there are a variety of issues in the forest management that need to be addressed. And in the end, forest management. We believe that the management of the forests that are in Ukraine should be closer to a new form, one that is, say, in Poland, where there is a certain price for the land on which the forests are located. In addition, forest farming should work on self - sufficiency. All these questions need to be found in the new Forest Codex. I propose that this draft of the Forest Codex, which is proposed, be adopted in the first reading with a view to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u40	Thank you, Igor Raphailovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, we've been on the subject for almost 50 minutes. From Lechchenko, Onopenko. That's enough, dear fellows! We've already made our appearance. And that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u41	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Our Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations is not the main issue, but I have carefully considered both bills. You have to say that they both contain and positive, and negative are the moments. I want this to be documented for the transcript that Bill 3459 Karmazin, it does not correspond to article 19, article 55, article 125, article 126 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. There are other observations. Bill No. 3459-1 of Samoblovsky is here, too, that it does not correspond to article 55, article 56, article 126 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. At the committee meeting, we had eight to eight votes, that is, we decided not to take on this issue of support. But as a national MP, I believe that a more qualified, more perfect bill of the 3459-1 Samowo. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u42	Vasil Onopenko, get ready for the Gap.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u43	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Forest Code is not just a forest, it is primarily a legal relationship that is governed by law. I would like to point out that this is about the codification of the law that regulates these relationships. Regrettably, the Lawly Committee did not consider a draft of the Forest Code, which is part of both the Civil Code, and the Earth Code, and the Family Code, and the Administrative and Rules of Procedure, and the application of the rights of the courts. So I think it's a big mistake. I think we should consider the future. I am convinced that the draft Codex of the Forest should be adopted. If it works, any kind of foundation. Further work must be done, and the Committee on Legal Policy must be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u44	Santa Claus, please. Then Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of one of Ukraine’s ecologically vulnerable industrial regions, the fate of forests, especially in the East, seems extremely important. I want to say that for Luhansk, forest issues are ecologically important and very important. So I'm asking the MPs to support Bill 3459-1 of the Samolovsky deputies, Shershun. The project approves the state administration of all forests and the basic state ownership of forests, clearly states the right to own, use, and use. It's absolutely logical to say that the right of attachment is also. is transferred to the district level. This is important for Luhansk, because one forestry enterprise is located on. Three, five farms. And so I very much ask the MPs to support this bill as very important and important for the conservation of Luhansk and all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u46	Alexander Kuzmuk, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I represent 129 district, steppe region. The most suitable for all regions of Ukraine, including Mikolaiyevščina, is the Samowolski project. In Santa, only 3.7 percent of the forests need to be restored. And it allows you to solve the main issues -- the reforestation, and the second is the implementation of the Mikolajščina Forest Program. So please support Mr. Samowoski's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention: there will be a vote. All right, time's up. Please! Take off your warning, please. The first is the bill of Yuri Karmazin, the Hare, and other national deputies. I put to the vote the adoption of the draft Forest Code of Ukraine, registration number 3459, authors George Carmazin, John the Rabbit, Victor Yushchenko, and other national deputies. [[10:51:44]] For 132 The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote, please note, the draft law on the Forest Code of Ukraine, registration number 3459-1, authors of Samorowski, Shershun. Please vote. [[10:52:16]] For 378 Decision taken. A draft law on the guarantees of electoral rights of citizens is being announced for consideration. Well, it said in the committee's decision when working on the second reading to take into account proposals, Your Honor, it would be considered by the committee. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Guarantees of the Election Rights of Citizens is under review. Reporter Yuri Klukkowski. Please let's give 5 to the report, 3 to the question. Prepare Bondarenko Volodymyr for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, you are invited to propose a draft of the Law on the Guarantees of the Election Rights of Citizens. The need to propose such a bill is due to the fact that electoral legislation in Ukraine today is built on a sectoral principle. For each type of election, there is a law that regulates in its own way all the fundamental problems associated with the exercise of electoral rights of citizens. And various laws implement different approaches, which are triggered by different authorships and different times of adoption of these laws. So actually, the idea is to unify an approach that, in a single position, settles homogeneous issues regardless of the type of election, and I want to emphasize whether referendums. First of all, this refers to the exercise of the electoral rights of citizens. This is the path that should lead us to the future election code. The proposed bill is the first attempt in this direction. It refers to whether or not the most important component of electoral legislation and legislation on referendums, guarantees of electoral rights of citizens. In our view, the guarantee of these electoral rights has three elements. First of all, the content of election rights needs to be clearly described. If we know what these rights are, there is no variation, and there are no different interpretations in the exercise of these rights. It's different. There is a need for a clear regulation of the exercise of one or more rights. Again, such a procedure helps to ensure that these rights are fully exercised and prevents them from being compromised. And third. Clear mechanisms are needed to protect the electoral rights of citizens and to restore them if they are violated. In fact, the unity of the approach that unites all three issues, namely, the formulation of content, the mechanisms for implementation, and the mechanisms for protecting the guarantees of electoral rights, as proposed in the bill. We come from the fact that Ukrainian citizens have three types of electoral rights: this is an active election right, i.e. the right to vote, the right to vote in elections; this is a passive electoral right - the right, as the Constitution writes, to be elected, and in fact it means to be a candidate in elections; and, thirdly, a nominative election right - the right to nominate a candidate, and this is closely linked to the right to initiate a referendum and to propose questions to be considered in a referendum. As far as active electoral law is concerned, it is constitutional, and its main content is enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. However, I would like to remind you of the recent problems with understanding the right to vote in national and local elections that took place during the 2002 local elections and needed to be referred to the Constitutional Court. These problems are not yet solved. In our view, the mechanism that guarantees the implementation of an active electoral law would be the establishment of a State voter register. And the next bill, which will be considered here, "The State Register of Voters," is largely based on the ideas set out in the bill on the guarantees of electoral rights of citizens. Passive voter's right. I want to remind you of the situations that occurred during the local elections, particularly in Kiev, when, because of any other understanding of the right to be a candidate in the elections, about a thousand candidates to the local councils were removed from registration. And finally, a nominee election law that concerns the right to nominate candidates. The main scientific expert in the administration doesn't think that there's a separate right, that it's part of an active electoral right -- it's not. And I would like to remind myself that, for example, in the election of the President of Ukraine, only the candidate who was 35 years old, although the right to vote, an active electoral right, is 18 years old. All right. Guarantees for the protection of violated rights are also an extremely important component of guarantees of fair and free elections. The bill proposes a comprehensive approach to this problem, both through the courts and election committees, and proposes an appeal against the court’s decisions in the first instance. These positions entered into, inter alia, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the laws "On Elections of the President and People's Deputies of Ukraine". Yet, it offers the only general approach that takes away the contradictions that exist with the Civil Procedure Code. Our bill was drafted by the Electoral Law Institute team led by Marina Stavniczuk and mine and discussed at several conferences. He can't take action for the next election. So I ask that this bill be supported in the first reading, and that the committee and the authors continue to work on it as a first step towards the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u50	Thank you. Are you done or are you out of time? Finally, Yuri Bogdanovich completed his report. If there's a question, dear colleagues, let's write it down. Three minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up, come on. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Hell, Alexander's gonna be the second to ask the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, it is clear that if we had all the right guarantees and were to be carried out, as in the Constitution, there would be no need for a separate law on the guarantees of electoral rights for citizens to be adopted. I'd like to ask you to explain how you plan to get out of such a position that the place of residence of the electorate in you, part of the first article of the 28th, is determined in accordance with article 19 of the Civil Code. And the elector who has several permanent residences chooses for his own discretion where he will be, what address he will receive both the invitation and everything else. Can you please tell me how to exercise your right here to the citizens? Is it possible that warnings still need to be provided? Whatever happened in Odessa, people came, and they were told to go to court, and then let them write us a court order that you have the right to vote here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the problem of the definition of the unanimity of voting, the one-time vote of the electorate, is extremely important in the implementation of the electoral rights of citizens. That is why the bill does not propose to be based on the provisions of the Civil Code. And I would like to point out that in connection with the adoption of the Freedom of Movement Act and the free choice of residence in Ukraine, there is already a draft of the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the relevant article of the Civil Code. Instead, we suggest introducing a completely different concept, the concept of the electoral address of the electorate, that is, the postal address at which the electorate is included in the national voter register. This address should be the only, however, choice of her — the right of the electorate in connection with the problems you have discussed. Such an analogy is in tax law, where there is a tax address for the taxpayer, which may also be ambiguously linked to his place of residence. This leads to the problem of determining the place of residence, which is not fully solved by Ukrainian legislation, from the scope of the electoral legislation. I think that this path will allow us to avoid even theoretical discussions about what is a place of residence, and it will enable us to clearly establish the link between the electorate and the appropriate constituency.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u53	Yes, Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u54	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Zaporozska oblast. Dear colleague, there are no words, and you and I are concerned about the transparency, the legitimacy of elections. Therefore, any attempt is commendable. At the same time, say, is there a similar practice of law in the countries of Europe in the former post-Soviet area? First. Second. Don't you think we're breaking things up and going to the election as if we were going to the table books? The Constitution, the Electoral Act, now your law. Does it not make it easier for you to take into account and amend the Electoral Act?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u55	Thank you. Well, first question. Yes, that is the practice. And let's say that for more than 10 years, the Russian Federation has been operating the Law "Guarantees of the Election Rights of the Citizens of the Russian Federation". It's much wider than that, and it involves not only the questions that we've included here, but also the question of the formation of election committees. We thought it was an object of a separate law, but it's essentially a possible approach. Once again, I want to emphasize that some of the provisions of this bill can be taken into account in the electoral sector, and some of them are already included. However, it is very bad when, for each election, the same matters are settled by various laws. We're all talking about the need to get into the election code. In fact, this bill is the first step towards an electoral code in the part that deals with the exercise of electoral rights of citizens who have to be equal, regardless of which elections or referendums are held.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u56	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Time's up. Sit down, please. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich from the committee, please. Is there a Volodymyr Dmitrovich Bondarenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u57	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's constituency, "Our Ukraine". I'm carrying out the commission of the State Building and Self-Government Committee, introducing this bill. The author of the bill took on a mission to develop an undeveloped part of the legislation that deals with the electoral rights of citizens. This is absolutely necessary in terms of the approximation of Ukrainian legislation to codification, including in the part of electoral legislation. Indeed, part of the laws that apply to local councils, rural, rural, city heads, the Supreme Council, and elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have already taken into account certain positions that determine the rights of citizens and to elections, including those who move during elections and are in other areas or are physically unable to come to the polling stations. The rights of citizens in special areas are also partially guaranteed, including in prisons, by separate laws, as well as in treatment facilities or ships located outside or in principle, by citizens who are outside Ukraine and who vote in Ukrainian consular institutions. It's all scattered in different laws, and there's different interpretations and different treatments. And despite the fact that today's proposed bill raises some warning from the scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council, and there's a great document where they point to what and how to do, the committee has not seen the need to bring this bill back to work, because we believe that in the version that it has been given today, the bill could be considered in the Supreme Council and approved in the first reading, in order for the author to work on it, and the entire constituency of the Supreme Council could make amendments, clarification -- and we are faster to reach the goal of enacting the law in general. That's why the committee took the appropriate decision and proposed a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the adoption of the draft Law on the Guarantee of the Election Rights of Citizens. And I call on you on behalf of the committee to support this decision and to adopt this bill in the first reading for further elaboration in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues, is the question understood? No questions? Is it? Well, sign up, please. Give me the names of the national deputies on the sign-up board. Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Then Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u59	Vladimir Dmitrovich. I wanted to inform you, Mr. President, that today we are working in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council Competition Commission. The Fifth Channel broadcasts the morning session from the 10th to the 12th. I hope this will be the case in the next session so that we can work more mobilizedly and the Ukrainian people will see that the Supreme Council is working on serious issues rather than listening to the stupid thing they sometimes see about Parliament on national channels. Vladimir Dmitrovitch, there are a few fundamental questions that I think are important today in the work between first and second reading: this is actually the right to vote and the right to vote. Today, there are meetings, not a secret, with teachers, school principals, where they are told that there is no right to choose: there is already a candidate, and all we have to do is provide, come and vote. How do you think this story can be stopped with the distinction between the right to vote and the right to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u60	Of course, the issue for Ukraine is of particular importance. We all witnessed a meeting of the head of the district education department in Zakarpatska district in Mukacheveva at the seventh morning meeting with the head of kindergartens and schools, where general and strategic directions for the development of education in Zakarpatta were apparently developed. But that was on the day of the vote for the mayor of Mukachev. What I'd like to say is that today, the impact of the administrative resources during the election period, it's famous. And you know that in part today's legislation we've already regulated it, especially in the laws that were passed in this room, the right to participate in local elections for prisoners who are in prison and that's the right thing to do. Because in Kiev, for example, there is one district of the City Council’s deputy, 80 percent of which is made up of the Lukyan prison. So it's already partially regulated by the laws. I think that this position that you've been paying attention to is primarily about the criminal responsibility of government officials, heads of state authorities and self-government, which is forbidden by law to act as they do today, to give advice and to speak for whom and how to vote. And more than that, he has no right to agitate as a leader. So this is all a gross violation of existing legislation. But the rights of citizens referred to in this bill are ensured by the possibility of making a personal decision for whom to vote and the right of a citizen not to hand over his ballot to anyone, but to throw it into the ballot box on his own.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u61	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u62	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. A restricted area. Dear Volodymyr Dmitrovich, I'll repeat something. Here's the last question that Mr. Klukkowski was asked, which is that we really need to develop a single code on the election of the President of Ukraine, the national MPs of the city, the village, and so on. I mean, yeah, about the referendums. Because we are law - bound and confusing, then we say that there is a repetition, something is not bound there, and so is one law. I'll tell you, there's an example in Belarus. There is a codex that includes all these concepts of elections. And so we can now guarantee the electoral rights of citizens. Well, they're not guaranteed by the Constitution, they're guaranteed by laws. Now let's talk about guarantees. I think it would be more appropriate not to rush into adopting these bills, but to develop, in fact, the only code for Ukraine and to lay down all these laws that we are considering in the Supreme Council today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Anatoly! The point is that the codification of legislation usually takes place at the stage of a fairly serious sectoral development of the system of laws, i.e. there are two approaches. You could write, let's say, a bologna in a general direction, then you could branch away from it and go that way, you could go in reverse. We have a completely updated Law on Elections of the President today; we have an updated Law, although imperfect and one and the other, the Law on Elections of Local Councils, Rural, Rural, Urban Heads; we have imperfect and unenhanced Laws on Referendums, which allow 10 days to drive people and lead them by the hands, by the feet of electoral urns; we also have specific laws that operate today in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but there is a general Law on Elections of People's Deputies in the same territory, and they must be related. So we're talking about exactly one concept: what is the guarantee of citizens' rights in elections to be elected, to choose and, including the spread of ideas for individual citizens who have age enough to choose, and not enough to be chosen. This needs to be noted in legislation today. So in the committee, we don't see a problem with this law being passed, it's going to go in whole or in part into the big election code in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u64	Thank you, Volodymyr Dmitrovich. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion, dear fellows. Do we need to discuss this issue with us? 15 minutes, please. Slippery. Ladies and gentlemen, since the committee was so proposed and I agreed, I just haven't been able to agree with you yet. Puzakov, please, Vladimir Puzakov, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u65	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Ukraine’s electoral legislation was formed and developed according to a sectoral principle. In Ukraine there are laws on the election of the President, on the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council, on the election of members of the local councils and on rural, rural, urban, and all-Ukrainian and local referendums, and others. Since these laws were adopted at different times, specific mechanisms for guaranteeing appropriate subjective rights differ significantly and in many positions are not harmonized. The balance of electoral rights and duties requires the State to ensure the guarantees and mechanisms for their implementation. One of the problems with the exercise of subjective electoral rights is the problem of the exercise of general electoral law along with the principle of a one - time voter’s participation in the vote. And today, this problem has been exacerbated by the definition of the permissive nature of the Institute of Penitentiary, and the question is, How will the list-making process go? What is the mechanism for their clarification? How can the voter’s one - time vote be controlled? These questions are too important, so they require a single approach to their legal regulation. I would like to believe that this bill will provide inexhaustible answers to the questions and make the elections more or less as promised by the President of Ukraine, pure. Although there is little faith in that. And with each passing year, elections become more dirty and dirty. The rights and responsibilities of voters are increasingly being violated. Because we have a bitter experience in the dishonesty of elections, both presidential and parliamentary, when we came to vote by buses of delegations from other areas. Here, of course, the money iceberg was both on the surface and in the depth of the electoral process. Today, too bad, our voters forget their rights. They were completely infected with money syndrome, which is used by the authorities. Some of them openly said that you pay us money, and we will vote for you. Here the administrative resources were accounted for, paid on time and as much as they needed. Yet, the same people do not acknowledge that they themselves promote what the authorities want and do. In my opinion, there is no greater evil in Ukraine than the selling of people. And in this great woe of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u67	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, during Ukraine's independence, we have established a base for elections, but unfortunately, with the real implementation of the guarantees of the electoral rights of citizens, we will move further away from the day of Ukraine's declaration of independence. So this project is interesting, according to this project, the constitutional election rights of Ukrainian citizens include active electoral rights, passive electoral rights, the right to be a candidate in elections, election rights, the right to participate in the election election and the initiation of the referendum on the subject. The voter's right to vote in elections and referendums is guaranteed by the voter's inclusion in the country's voter register and the voters' lists at the polling station at the polling station. It is envisaged that the number of voters in single-member districts formed for the election of one representative body should not deviate from the average number of voters in such districts by a maximum of 8 per cent. You realize that such novels that are introduced into this law will also need to change the basic electoral laws and the national MPs and the President. Special attention is due to the creation of the State Register of Voters. Such a State register is a data bank designed to ensure that citizens who have the right to vote are accounted for. It consists of a central voter register and regional voter registers. But I would like this law to provide for public control, which, unfortunately, was voted against in this room when the Elections Act was voted on, and when they voted on a proportional basis, and the President's Law. There is no public control, and control is placed on the Administration of Justice and the respective territorial electoral commission. I would like to point out that the project foresees that only the electorate whose information is included in the State Register has the right to participate in elections and referendums. [[Part One of Article 26]] But article 70 of the Constitution does not provide for any restrictions on the electoral rights of citizens. It is also envisaged that the electorate be required to take steps to avoid his multiple, or multiple, election registration, including if he is not guilty. But article 21 provides that the central electoral commission is the governing body and the principal information manager. I feel that it is not logical to oblige the electorate to take steps to avoid becoming involved in the National Electoral Register because the electorate will not be able to perform such duties. I'm for adopting this law in my first reading. But at the time of adoption in the second reading, paragraph four, part four, of article 26, must be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u68	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u69	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." Honourable Legislatures of Ukraine, distinguished voters of our own, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I really like Bertrand Russell's nice phrase, which sounds like, for democracy, fools have the right to vote, for totalitarian systems, fools have the right to rule the state. The question naturally arises, and it's already wandering around in the hall there, there, on the left, is it necessary for such a bill, or is it really accompanied by legislation, such as a normal developed state. Would Poles, Germans, or French accept such a bill today? I don't think so. For this there is a legislative vertical, the Constitution guarantees the rights of the electorate. The election law confirms these rights. Other legislation confirms this. Should we, the Ukrainians, be pedaling, say, this is the subject and declare and uphold the law of the guarantee of the electoral rights of citizens. I think we not only have the right to do this, but we should probably do it. Because in Ukraine today, in Ukraine, all the dirtiest, most disgraceful, most criminal methods of choice that I think mankind actually knew are being tested. It's all gathered here, it's all done quite frankly, without penalty, starting with unknown bandits running elections, and ending with unknown presidents. We have it all today. That's why today, in white gloves, some people wanted to fit in here, and why do we need this bill, we're going to write the Election Act. No, it's not. Such a law is necessary. He's like one of the outposts. He is, if you want, the stick that can be pushed away from these administrative wolves and thieves who will necessarily influence them, who have already entered into the taste, and will influence the election, pressure the electorate materially, financially, administratively, threaten to quit their jobs, and so on. I, in support of the Klukkowski bill, strongly disagreed and wanted you to think about it. And let our voters think about it and give us a hint. This is a 45 - article article that states that he cannot, say, apply for the presidency of a person who was in prison, but this prison was then removed according to the law. I think we have one movement, the only direction is if the person was in court, no more shots. We already know, some of it's been taken, and we can't find the ends. I mean, if a man was tried, he just doesn't have one, and he was in prison, I mean, condemned, he doesn't have the right to rule the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u70	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u71	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I think we'll all agree if we say that our electoral legislation is not completely unified. Although the recent adoption of presidential election laws has allowed us to unify electoral legislation. But we're in the stage where the code is needed. And only through the electoral code will we be able to unify our electoral legislation. As far as the guarantees of election rights are concerned, we can, in general, single out three groups of rights. One, that's it. the elements of this right. First, it's to write a clear content of the law, write a mechanism for the exercise of the right to vote and a mechanism to protect the violation of that right. And as we analyze our reality, we'll see that we have different standards for each of these ingredients today, and their application in practice in general leads to, well, I would say, a huge “disunderstanding” and a falsification of elections. For example, let's take the problem of withdrawing from the registration. Who, then, does not remember 2002, how many people were filmed in local elections, including in Kiev? Awesome! And man was not able to accuse anything, and as a result, the will had already been distorted. The second problem is the accusation of court decisions. Here's the trial in the first instance without a complaint or a date. And today the courts have become mechanisms, in fact, a distortion of will expression. That's why we need to unify this legislation here today. We're already on appeal, we're on our way, but we need to finish this system. Third, it's a mechanism for the protection of rights. You and I have passed a law on the President of Ukraine. Remember, I've been terrorizing you here until night, distinguished national MPs, just the absence of legal responsibility for disrupting the electoral process. It was also about administrative resources, it was about the use of the resources of enterprises, and it was about many others. - about the Civil Procedure Code, about the Criminal Code. I have to tell you that we don't have a complete system here, and we also have to complete the system of legal responsibility in elections. Third. I was in the polls in Poltavsk, and what I saw was that it was a bribe for the electorate. On the one hand, people are afraid, "Do you have gas? If you don't vote for a representative of power, we'll cut off your gas." And if anyone doesn't have gas, then "we," he says, "let's get this gas out." And they started distributing money, and they started distributing counters, and we don't know what else. In such a situation, how can a poor person resist such blackmail? It's the same thing - it can't. Therefore, honourable Members, this bill should be adopted in the first reading. He is part of the electoral code. Maybe we can put it in this code as a part, but we need to move on to codifying electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u72	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, distinguished presiding officer! I would like to say, first of all, what laws would not be adopted here: whether it was about guarantees of electoral rights of citizens, or guarantees of constitutional rights of citizens, because we have a Constitution, and we have no criminal responsibility for non-compliance with constitutional norms, that is, no one has ever been punished for their non-compliance. So whatever laws are written here, and including the draft law on guarantees of electoral rights of citizens, which must be supported, but until at least one head of the commission or his deputy, the electoral commissions, I mean, will not be held criminally responsible for their crimes, and they commit them, and act repeatedly and repeatedly, will not be held accountable, condemned, not put in prison, and his example will not be permanently a sword hanging over every commission head, until then all the laws that we are going to adopt here, all the codes in which we are going to cheat these laws will be inactive. Similarly, we can adopt a law guaranteeing the democratic rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. All of this will not work until the power in Ukraine is changed. Now, of course, we can talk about that this law, if adopted today, could somehow affect the presidential election in 2004. But I don't think that's going to be the main thing in the 2004 presidential election this fall. This will not be the main thing, but it will be the fear of criminal responsibility that will dominate the fear of the administrative responsibility of those district or other electoral committees in Ukraine. This is the main reason with the main criteria of any, let's say, any responsibility. Because if a person does not have a conscience, he is afraid of being punished. And if it has neither conscience nor fear of punishment, we can adopt very many laws to guarantee the rights of citizens and they will not act, unfortunately. So in this situation, I would be absolutely categorical. Until corrupt criminal authorities are taken into custody in Ukraine, no law will fully act. For everyone, it will be possible to go around it. As has already been said, each little bit will be a little bit more equal than the other. So I would like to make it clear that yes, this law needs to be supported, whether it will work or not, that it will be supported in this room. But, most importantly, you have to focus on fighting, you have to win elections, you have to take out criminals from power. Their place should be in prison and, I am sure, directly and quickly they will be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time. For reasons, please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich, microphone, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u75	Honorable colleagues, trying to force one law to enforce another law is not effective. But perhaps in our circumstances, really, like him, this law needs to be used, and that is why it needs to be adopted. But in the process of preparing for second reading, I think three questions need to be addressed. First. Compilation of the voter register. The other one. The formation of electoral committees, especially district committees, where the fate of the elections is decided. And the third question. Ensuring adequate voter will and protection against falsification. If these three questions are not clearly addressed and resolved, the rights of the electorate will not be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Right after this draft law, we're going to be considering the Law on the State Register of Voters, and it's going to be in that canoe that you just said, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Guarantees of the Election Rights of Citizens. [[Registration number 3434]] [[11:29:59]] For 227 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 94, the Ukraine is 2, the Communists are 58, the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party is 0, the Ukrainian Labour Party is 0, the SPU is 20, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 19, the Center is 12, the Union is 0, the Democratic Initiatives, the People's Government is 0, the NDP and the PPU are 13, the People's Agrarian Party is 2, the Postfaction Party is 7. [[united]] Decision taken. A draft Law on the State Register of Voters is being announced for consideration. Reporter Alexander Viktorovich Zadrodzny. Prepare from the Klukkowski TSK. Please, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u77	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Not only has the constitutional change made the issue of electoral legislation relevant, but one of the signs of the Supreme Council of this convening is that we keep talking about electoral laws and not just mention them when we are preparing physically for elections. The bill on the national register of voters has a long history. And this story started with a few bills to regulate personal information registers. I would like to remind you that they were initiated by a well-known decision of the Constitutional Court to revoke the ruling. The point is that a pen like one that was installed from the passport system at the age of 30 gave a clear answer to the question of where the electorate resides? The central problem after the cancellation of the permit and after the actual administrative arrangement, the very important component of the passport system for the establishment of a single residence was cancelled, leading to the fact that the setting of the residence term is problematic for today’s legislation. Rather than a term, it's actually the only place to live. And the consequences that we all felt had a significant impact on us, and I have the right to talk about it, including the outcome of the elections in 2002, when we all said here and from this rostrum that voters voted in one area twice, three times, and sometimes we drove buses from other places, and there was no guarantee that the electorate voted once, and there was no. So the efforts of the drafters of the bill to get closer to solving this problem are reflected in the bill that is currently under consideration. Let me remind you that registering is a complex issue. If this problem is dealt with critically, it can be concluded that it is not possible to solve it at all today, since there is no single system of registration across the country. We suggest that we take the first step and not just vote in the first reading, but initiate, and this is a very important aspect, to start work on registering. What will that mean? The creation of a national register provides for the creation of a system, including those that will lead. Now, in the debate that has taken place in the towers, there is a criticism that the central register should be conducted, not by the central electoral commission, but perhaps by the Ministry of Justice or at the district level, rather than by the territorial representatives of the CTC, but by the judicial authorities, but at the local level, by the local authorities. The problem is, really, a lot, and my co-author and I were kind of surprised by the negative conclusion of scientific expertise, although it's negative in its content, but the conclusion is positive: you can. On the first page and from the first phrase, we begin to be accused of a failed mechanism. Yeah, we don't mind. Let's think of another one. But this job has to start. And if we start it just before the 2006 elections, it's just not going to be a national time register. And the question is clearly that the register is not about the election in 204, but about the election in 2006 and probably in 2011, because it's a serious little bit of a road job, but without that, experience shows it's impossible. A few words about the content of the bill and the problems we're trying to solve. First of all, it's a definite set of terms of residence and an effort to make sure that the electorate doesn't have the opportunity twice or four times to vote for different documents that identify the person. Secondly, it is the creation of an automated electronic system that would allow not only to declare such a right, but to remind us that we have had many cases where the electorate did not get on the list and could not implement the Constitution the envisaged right of elections to do so only through the courts. And in a system like this, it's actually impossible. And thirdly, the basic trait is that we believe that such a bill will really allow the rights that are foreseen to be realized. That's all there is to it, knowing that there is a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no questions? There is a question. Please sign up, three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u79	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". The Honorable Reporter, in the law we have just adopted on the guarantees of the electoral rights of citizens, is chapter two, where there are 18 articles, from 19th to 33rd, which are called the State Register of Voters. Word for word, they're in line with this project. That's what happened, I don't blame you, I want us to find a legal way out of this colossal. In a word they match that document that you're reporting right now, you know. He was accepted in the first reading. Is there a need for a separate document now, if this is provided for in the law that we adopted in the first reading. I would personally think that if the first reading was accepted, let us limit ourselves to that. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear Jury Anatolyovich, I am absolutely convinced that, in any case, regardless of the position of power or power or opposition, the State Register of Voters is a guarantee of the exercise of election rights and a guarantee of the rule of law. Anyway, we're with the co-author, you see that the author of the first project just voted is Yuri Klukkowski, and the author of the second bill is both of us, and we anticipate any situations that are possible here. We think we need a register. I don't see the difficulty in saying that this is a repetition. On the second reading, you can delete this bill if it is supported. But these jobs need substantial funding, they need to be budgeted in the State budget, and so if you let them take the register more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u81	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u82	Mr. President, I think that everyone here understands the importance and significance of your bill and we support it. The only thing I care about is, like everyone in this room, how much does the format of this passage cost? How will this work be carried out organizationally, and how will it extend over time and space?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u83	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, thank you for asking. You realize that it's an estimated 50 million to create a register. In fact, the amount of money spent on it is about 10 million dollars a year. But these are the approximate calculations that, let's say, will largely confirm the experience of the work on this issue of the Central Electoral Commission. But the main thing is that in this system, when local authorities, local governments, at the district level and at the central level, there are actually separate registers and problems are being created, we can't predict, and this is just the first normative act, the first legislative act in this respect, we predict that there will be about two dozen to solve this whole problem. How this is going to work out is that we have to sit down, and I think that the adoption of this bill in the first reading will just open up this work -- to elaborate, to give appropriate tasks, to involve the government and to count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u84	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u85	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Communist Party. Dear Alexander Viktorovich, I have two questions for you. First, would it not result in the creation of a State register of voters to violate constitutional rights and human rights? I mean, we've often met before the election -- we're putting lists on the election boards, and then Kiev and I are organized to send greetings to all the voters. That's the first one. And the second. What is the place of self - government in the proposed registration system? Because if there's hope for them, it's the right thing to do, you know, they're technically unsecured and a lot of other problems. Who, then, will be specifically involved in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u86	Dear Anatoly Volodymyrovich, I understand that the issue of protecting personal information is not only the subject of this bill, but in general. Including, your humble servant introduced three such bills. I was accused of being undemocratic. Because I think that personal information should not only be protected, but access to it should be, well, absolutely limited to the appropriate number of persons, especially authorized, and not by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but by us, by law. Then there will be order, then you will not receive greetings. And this is in the bill, to the extent that this applies to the register, this is provided for. Secondly, there is no authority in place other than local self-government, so a three-way system, a three-way system, including the management of the Central Electoral Commission, when it is in its hands, as we think, will allow for more or less implementation as such, including an electronic version and so on. The important thing is that he works and ensures that voters are singled out and actually voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u87	Thank you, Alexander Viktorovich. Time is up. Please sit down. Yuri Anatoly. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please, from the Temporary Special Commission. I ask very briefly, within three minutes, that we complete our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill on behalf of the Temporary Special Commission, which has been entrusted with the task of working on all the draft electoral laws. The idea of this bill today welcomes the air, and you know the repeated appeals of the Central Electoral Commission, which are made by the head of the commission, Mr. Sergey Kiwalov, that the register is essential. In fact, this bill is called upon to solve the problem. Let's think about how many questions there are in the elections today that the voter lists are only at the level of local self-government, and I want to emphasize, at this level alone, and for each election alone. As a result, we have problems when, in the absence of time, lists of previous elections are passed on, where are the masses of people who are dead, where are the masses of people who have moved, when they are not there, and so every time there's a special question -- clarifying the lists of voters -- which is based on district election committees, which is very often a very difficult problem for them. That is why the State Register of Voters is the solution to this problem. And the Central Election Commission is the natural authority of the record. On the other hand, the national voter register should not be limited to national elections. The problem is, who is a member of the territorial community, who is entitled to local elections in a particular community, should also be solved by this register. Therefore, the introduction of this register must be, as is the case today, at the level of local self - government. Thus, the bill should ensure the interaction of different levels of the register, from local, rural, rural, urban to state. The problem of including citizens who are outside Ukraine in the voter register has already been mentioned in the voter list. I would like to emphasize once again: The national voter register should provide a stable, well-known, transparent system of voter lists, and only the voter's presence on the voter list is a guarantee that he will receive a ballot in the polling station and will be able to vote. What is absolutely important is the problem of protecting the information that Alexander Viktorovich has already spoken to. Yes, this problem is being solved there. And that's why there are organs involved in this system that don't run other registers and, in particular, don't keep a single register of individuals. This should be a separate register dedicated only to elections. On the other hand, without adequate control of the constituency of the voter’s inclusion in the voters ’ lists, abuse mechanisms may arise. In fact, this bill attempts to resolve these issues. I sincerely hope that is the same as the previous bill that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u89	Do you have everyone? Yuri Bogdanovich finished his speech. Dear colleagues, shall we move on to the discussion now? Thank you. So on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. 15 minutes. Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction, Carmazin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski, Javorowski Jovkovsky District, Lvivščina 123 constituency. Victor Yuchen's block of "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, after having just voted in favour of the Ukrainian Election Rights Guarantee Bill, when this law is already real in the first reading, and I am convinced that it will be adopted in the second reading, the situation around this bill on registration, the national voter register has actually changed dramatically. I support the Roadside, without looking, let's say, there's different positions, different positions of our position, different degrees of love for the President, but I support, absolutely, this bill. Where's the exit? I do tend to think that perhaps printing another bill on this very subject after the adoption of a bill where there is a unit dedicated to this particular topic is probably not worth it. Because of that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would suggest a version that would simplify the situation a little bit. It's to be expanded by this law, which is proposed by the Key and Road people, to expand the chapter in that previous law, to expand it more, because there's a lot of smart, very much accurate, very much specific. I'm actually a little bit out there, well, I have some doubts, Alexander, about, let's say, these lists that will be prepared by our army there and so forth. There are certain doubts. As General Swan used to say, "The Democrat General is the same thing as the helmsman." And the same thing in prisons, let's say that something would have to be clarified there, because I, maybe a lot of people won't like it, but I'm a supporter of the fact that, if a person is in prison, I don't think I need to put her in a election process. There's a lot of abuse around here, you know, in prison and stuff. Because of this proposal to introduce this bill, developed by two authors, more so that Klukkowski is the author of both the previous law and this, in an extended version, to introduce it completely as a cassette, into the subsection of the previous law, and we will have a very good and full legislative act. And I want to thank the Traveler for his hard work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! We have just passed the Law on the Guarantees of the Election Rights of Citizens with you, and I hope that it will be adopted in a second reading. And there's a whole chapter that says everything about the National Election Register. I would now like to protect the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Alexander the Road and not agree with the Scientific and Experimental Authority, who believes that the information that will be included in the National Electoral Register violates the article on article 32 of the Constitution of Ukraine. On the contrary, based on the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the case of the official interpretation of articles 3, 23, 31, 47, 48 of the Information Act and articles 12 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act of 30 October 1997, where it is written that confidential information is a testimony to a person: education, family status, religious status, health, date and place of birth, property status and other personal data, it is only possible to collect confidential information in cases defined by law and only in the interests of national security, economic welfare and human rights. So I think that's exactly the purpose of this bill. Because fair power, fair power, no counterfeiting, and you and I know that in the past presidential elections, 1 million 300 dead souls were involved, and that's exactly what we're about to do, and we need to take a very responsible approach to the voter register. I want to tell you that in that law that the Road and author of the Road and the Keykowski have just reported, and in the previous law, the approach to the information of the State Register of Voters is slightly different. Thus, article 4 of this bill, which we are currently discussing, unlike the preceding article, provides only 6 instead of 9 as in the previous one, information that needs to be provided, in particular, will no longer have to be provided about the electoral residence outside Ukraine, about whether there is a criminal trial or not, about the ownership by the electorate of the state language. Therefore, as a result of legal engineering, of course, I agree with the national MP Yavorowski, I would have to limit myself to the adoption of the first Law on the Guarantee of the Election Rights of Citizens. But given that most factions have not voted in favour of this law now, you've seen it, you have to make an insurance policy. And this little Companion of the State Election Register can be viewed as just an insurance option. So I call for a vote and for this insurance option in the case of non-admission, in the second reading, that's a good option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u93	Ivan Hare, faction of "Our Ukraine", Ukraine, to prepare Yuri Salamatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u94	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! The last elections in Poltava region or Mukachevo indicated that the non-inclusion of citizens in electoral lists is the technology of forging elections. I was an observer in one of the districts in Kobelyakh district and I saw dozens or maybe hundreds of people not included in the election lists, so they failed to exercise their electoral rights. They're to some extent demoralized by these people. They said that they would never go to these elections again. So we really need a voter register. And then such things will not interfere with the exercise of the right to vote. I'm afraid that this bill will not be accepted on various grounds that the confidentiality of information is not guaranteed there and so on. We really need to write a very democratic bill today. Here's the confidential information, let's put it in a separate paragraph, there must be the liabilities of those who use this database to not disclose it. But today there's a certain amount of peroxide in this bill, more of the responsibility of the electorate than the authorities that should ensure the creation and maintenance of the voter register. Thus, when further reading is done, it must be corrected. The responsibility of the electorate must be established, but the authorities and officials of the local authorities should also be responsible for maintaining the list. Another problem with the election race is our voters abroad. We don't know how they count, and we don't know how they're reflected in this bill today. I think this problem should also be highlighted. There is also the problem of assigning voters to the local community. The point is that the legislation that regulates this at the national level, for example, the election of national MPs or the President, is a different scale, a different sphere of application than the elections to local authorities, to local self-government. This is how to attribute this person, who seems to live in a village, is actually prescribed in Kiev, so that's the problem here. And we have to predict in this bill. And the last. Again, this is true of the military. Today, a military officer is included in the voter list at the request of a commander of a unit there. But there is no trace of where this man is at the moment. Thus, the register will provide an opportunity to answer that question. And the last. These are so - called letters of reassurance. No one is going to tell us where the man is today, but they're being used by buses. So we have to adopt this bill, finish it, and hurry with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u95	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I would like to mention the Swedish experience on this subject. The child was born, and she gets a cut in the Tax Administration of the corresponding government code of definition. And with that code, she lives to her last breath. There is no institution like the Centre. The election is organized by the National Tax Administration. This is very important. And no matter where a person should vote, in any corner of Sweden, immediately information that he has exercised his right, comes to the central computer, and twice or three times with a bus or an airplane, he can't use that right twice. But that's not the point. I want to turn to the fierce advocates of the capitalist homeland and the bourgeois homeland. The point is not in the State voter register, as you insist. The point is that the electorate is not going to the election today. Under the bourgeois democracy, the best voter in the world is the one who spits on the Constitution, the President, the government, us with you, the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, screams that I have failed, I hate you all. This is this person, this citizen is the best citizen of Ukraine. He doesn't have to be convinced of anything, he doesn't need to be done anything, he doesn't need to be bribed. And the rest of those left can be dealt with properly. How does this happen? 20 or 30 deputies, including butterflies, are being thrown into the district, and they begin these games are being staged. Finally, the candidate who won only 10,000 to 12,000 votes out of a total of 190 or 200,000 voters in the district wins. That's 10-12 percent. That's how we have bourgeois democracy. So it's not the register, it's the bourgeois capitalist regime. And until we get through it with you, we're going to say, well, the rough word wanted to use, I won't, the mess we'll never be able to overcome. So I want to say this at last: of course, the bill is interesting, but it is political, political, honorable! He does not solve the problems that lie ahead. But at least in this way it will be a small step in improving the bourgeois system of legislation. That's why we support this as a palate, but once again we want to emphasize that we need to change the system of power, remove this bourgeois capitalist regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u97	The word is given by the national deputy of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u98	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I would still like to go back to the meaning of our meeting here and discuss the bill, because in principle the example of the predecessor was from a bourgeois country, Sweden, wasn't it? What I would like to hear is how is the situation in Korea or China with elections and voter lists? But that's not the main thing. With regard to the State Register of Voters. I also want to agree with previous speakers that this is part of the previous bill. And both the first and the second laws are palliative, and most of the laws in the Supreme Council are palliative for the simple reason that we adopt laws and they don't apply them there. So there is a concept and there is a law. But that doesn't mean that if we don't want to live by concept, we don't have the right or the need to write quality and productive laws. So this, I say again, can be argued whether it's necessary to put this into a separate bill, or whether it should be part of an existing bill, but most likely it would be part of the electoral code. But the point is, it's a question of the future. Today's elections, today's elections, will be followed by quite different scenarios. And this bill is not going to be applied to the modern election system, because it's conducted on very different grounds, democracy doesn't even stay overnight, there's no one going to invoke laws that exist or that don't exist in Ukraine. There will be completely governed by the concept of a completely different, so-called "understanding code": who has paid what has been paid has received so many votes. And it's going to be constantly, every step of the way, in different forms, under different circumstances. And it's going to be difficult to fight this bill on the national voter register, because first of all it's going to be necessary to have a high-quality voter register. And there are some contradictions: the bill proposed by the President's representative in Parliament is somewhat superficial, so no one is going to dig deeper and gather, indeed, a real picture of the electorate in Ukraine. On the other hand, do you know why a bill is proposed from a master structure? Because it provides for the removal from the legislative process of all those citizens who are outside of Ukraine. So he needs to be treated very carefully here. Only in the first reading, and only when the bill is combined with the previous one, well, in the first reading of the bill adopted, can we be positively voted on, because the removal of six or seven million, according to different estimates of citizens who are outside of Ukraine, not of their own free will, but because of the fact that the current authorities have thrown them out there, is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u99	Thank you. But for help and information: The authors of Bill 2 of the Road and Klukkowski. It's expensive and Klukkowski, so you don't have to bring it all together. Please, with Black's motives, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the bill should be adopted in the first reading, because without it, it cannot be guaranteed the electoral rights of citizens. But in the process of preparing for second reading, it is necessary to ensure that the guarantees are clearly stated that the register will be adequate and that it will change adequately and that controls, responsibilities, and sanctions will be taken care of. I can predict developments in the next election. Those half a million voters who will support Yashchenk in accordance with the law as a candidate will not be included in the voter list. The opposition representatives will not be included in the voter list. And there will be transparent boxes, envelopes, and voters will not vote. Therefore, control, responsibility, and sanctions must be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u101	Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the Ukrainian National Election Register Act, registration number 5183. Please vote. [[12:03:06]] For 333 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room. We'll continue the meeting. The draft Law on the National Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine, Bill No. 4370, is being followed. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Bandurka Alexander Markovich. He's like the author, and from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u103	Honorable National MPs. Since January 1, 2004, the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code has entered into force, which regulates the execution of sentences in our country. Earlier, we separated the Department of Internal Affairs from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and created the Department of Execution. A whole series of projects, drafts, regulations that define the overall structure, the number of criminal and execution systems in Ukraine, the organization of prior imprisonment, and the service responsibilities have been developed. But today, a fundamental law that would determine the legal status of the service itself would be the basic legal basis in this area of regulation, in the field of execution of penalties. This law aims to regulate the activities of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. The draft law defines the status, the task of the service, the legal basis of the organization and the activity. The law consists of 32 articles that are organized or contained in eight chapters. The legal bases, principles of activity, structure, authority, subordination, interdependence and interaction that are envisaged for the execution of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service, are aligned with the Criminal Procedure Code, which is prepared for the second reading, with other legislative and programming documents on Ukraine's European integration. This law will regulate the activities of the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine, as a specially mandated central executive body on the execution of sentences, its territorial authorities on district administration, criminal enforcement agencies and a number of other units that are part of the Department of Execution. The law provides for situations in which the rights of the State Criminal Enforcement Service are implemented: and human security, the use of force by personnel, the promotion of executive powers by the tasks of the State Criminal Enforcement Service, the legal and social protection of the personnel of the State Criminal Enforcement Service, and a number of other issues that are currently regulated either by the President's decrees or by the Cabinet of Ministers. Individual comments from the Legal Service of the Supreme Council were made to the law, and they were taken into account by individual ministries and departments. And, in principle, we think, the Committee on Law Enforcement, that this law can be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u104	Thank you. Sign up for questions. Please explain. Three minutes Karmazin followed by Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u105	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Alexander Markovich! Of course, the bill is ready for adoption, but I'd like to ask you how you think the state is going to do about the enterprises, the enforcement agencies. So there's a good function, and people are providing jobs in places where they're going to be deprived of their will. You know there are no such things in many countries. And you know how hard it is for us to do that, and we don't give these businesses any benefits, and there are 200,000 citizens sitting there today. You can see whether such benefits and benefits should be given, or if there are other measures that can be taken to get people involved in the work and to correct them because of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u106	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for the right question. I would like to draw your attention to chapter 8, the closing position, which states that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a period of three months after this act has become effective, will submit proposals to the Supreme Council for the adoption of Ukrainian laws in accordance with this law to introduce other legal acts, such as those relating to the treatment of persons with alcoholism in the system of occupational health care professionals, enterprises of these institutions. In fact, we also need to support the benefits, because criminal enforcement is the most complex issue -- employment as a means of recovery, as a means of material security and self-sustainment. I'm sorry it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u107	Please, Orzhachowski, get ready for Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u108	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Markovich, I'm here for you. I have two questions for you. Is there some position of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic's Labour Code in your bill, because in such cases always wise politicians should take it. And the second. Whether the law provides attention to those communities where appropriate institutions are located, for there is a moral climate that is not always pleasant to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u109	Thank you. When we were preparing the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, which, since January 1st, was put into effect, we really did have that positive experience that was accumulated in previous years of both Ukraine's independence and Soviet times, and I'm saying positive, because it was also negative, it is still today, we counted it. We're on our way to further democratization, humanization, execution of sentences. Here's a good one, I can't stop at it for no time, no time. Are the interests of local communities where the execution authorities are located? Well, the law doesn't determine that. We're in chapter five, if I'm not mistaken, we're predicting a system of interaction, the promotion of executive organs, local self-government, citizens' union, the execution of tasks by the state criminal enforcement service. And in this chapter, we're looking at cooperation and mutual assistance, and chiefly, if we speak in an old way, influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Markovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Can we vote? Let's vote in the first reading. I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service, registration number 4370, for the adoption of the law as a basis for the first reading. Please vote. [[12:38:23]] For 280 Decision taken. Gmira, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u111	Thank you. Respectable lawmakers and second-readers are a purely philosophical problem to think about. I understand that the lawyer's hearing doesn't cut the title, not the lawyer's. The criminal execution of the service is from the point of view of language in general, some kind of killer organization that commits criminal offences. Let's just think that the title of the law is exactly what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u112	They're included in the process. The question is the draft Law on the Status and Procedural and Social Guarantees of Ukraine's Investigators. Registration number 4125. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Get ready from the Needyka Committee. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u113	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on the Status and Procedural and Social Guarantees of Ukraine Investigators, drafted in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 28 April 1992 on the concept of judicial and legal reform in Ukraine, which is designed to legally establish the real procedural independence of the investigator, determine its rights and duties, clearly distinguish the functions of the investigating bodies and bodies that carry out the search and search activities both in the process and in the organizational plan, etc. The need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Procedural and Social Guarantees of Investigators of Ukraine is called upon by article nine of the transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution, which requires the formation of a system of judicial investigation in the State and the introduction of laws governing the functioning of the system. In this regard, the need for the legislative definition of the term “system of pretrial investigation ” in the Constitution of Ukraine has become apparent. Only the new Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which is now being prepared for second reading, is not enough to create this system. There is a need for further adoption of a number of other laws, such as those I report now, and normative acts that determine the number of investigators, their material security, would regulate other functions of the pre-trial investigation bodies. The analysis of the processes that are taking place in the investigation departments of various departments and, to date, the pre-trial investigation, I remind you, is being carried out by investigators of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the DPA and the Security Service, leading to the conclusion that the strengthening of the professional investigative apparatus has now become a priority. Lately, proposals have been made for the merger of the pretrial investigation bodies of all the prosecutor’s offices, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the DPA, and the BSS under the direction of the Judicial Investigation Committee, which would be part of the judicial system and thus be introduced by the subordination of the executive branch. It is also proposed that a special, not-knowing body, the National Bureau of Investigation, the Committee of Inquiry, and so forth, be established. Considering that, in any case, the implementation of these ideas in practice will have considerable complexity, because the state and society are not yet ready to implement any other than the current model of crime investigation and accountability of persons who have committed criminal offences, the reform of the judicial investigation bodies should take place gradually, in clearly defined stages, with appropriate legislative and financial security, without undermining the structure of existing investigation units and the decommissioning of the professional core and personnel apparatus. The main objective of such a reform should be to preserve the existing potential of the investigation departments, their further development. One of the measures taken to resolve a number of the issues mentioned above is the adoption of this law, which will be brought into the single legislative field of investigating all departments irrespective of their known ownership and further reform of the investigation apparatus. The main purpose of the law is to strengthen the professional core of the investigation departments, improve their quality composition, reduce the outflow of highly professional professionals and investigate, and strengthen experienced specialists in the service in the investigation departments, to save considerable costs each year in the training of personnel. These funds could be used to strengthen the material and technical base of the investigators. This, in turn, will allow a substantial increase in the final results of the investigation teams, improve the quality of the trial, and reduce the investigation period. The draft of this bill takes into account the positive experience of countries close to the Russian Federation, Belarus, and Armenia, where tracking devices with vertical subordination have been operating for many years. During the current year, there have been working meetings of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine with the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of these countries, and we have studied this experience. As far as the cost of the bill is concerned, it has in fact been transferred those financial expenses that were previously established by the President's decrees, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, other legislative acts or imposed by the Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the Ukrainian law of 12 July 2001 amending the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. Dear National Deputies! Fulfillment. In accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, a review of the draft law relating to the material social protection of investigators shows that, in addition to existing expenditure, it is necessary to allocate from the State budget 11.7 thousand investigative employees of internal affairs bodies 30.8 million dollars. To maintain 966 taxpayers' militias -- 2.7 million dollars, to keep 600 BSI investigators -- 2 million dollars, and just 35.5 million dollars. Taking into account the expected cost savings from lowering the cost of training investigators as a result of stabilizing the professional core. Now, unfortunately, they're being released from service in all four offices up to and including one and a half thousand a year, and I stress, it's economic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u114	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u115	So the economic effect of the proposed draft law on the status of procedural and social investigative guarantees is up to 50 million dollars per year, on average 7,000 contingent units per year in the preparation of one expert. I'm wondering, if I'm curious, what is the frame flow and what is the result? I thank you for the opportunity to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u116	Please sign up for the questions. Please explain. Three minutes. Nigger. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u117	Yuri Anatoliyovich, it's clear that without solving two basic issues: the first-ingle system of investigation, and we don't have such a system, it's scattered, you've said that; and the second-th-th-th-of-this system of investigation from the pressure of executive power, the investigation cannot be objective, effective and humane. How do you solve this question anyway? This bill does not make a final decision. But we have to think conceptually about how to solve this problem. As an expert on these issues, what can you offer the Supreme Council and our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. You always read the bill carefully, and I'm surprised you didn't see why this bill didn't decide. He deals with most of the issues except one: bringing all the structural units together into one set. I immediately said that it was an unthinkable task so far, and we did not put it in front of us. I want to say that all the law enforcement committees in the Supreme Council have supported us, absolutely everyone who has studied. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in preparation for one expert, the state spends 120,000 dollars on the budget, and now it's going to spend even more, after certain decrees. What's it made of? The duration of education in a higher education facility is four years, per year for one student in the budget is 30,000 dollars. It is planned that this expert will work for at least 15 to 20 years in the unit. In fact, the flow rate is one thousand and a half thousand investigators per year. In doing so, workers who have served for only three or five years are usually released. So just the flow of footage in the investigation leads to annual extra costs in size-- multiply this amount of volume per volume to prepare one-- it's 130-150 million dollars we're losing just because we don't provide normal guarantees of normal guarantee of activity to the investigator. We're saying today that a partial is the best and that's it. And the investigator has to be the most intelligent, and we predict now both his privacy and his non-disclosure, and guarantees against a criminal case against him. We already have chiefs of research who have committed crimes against the investigators. Even though they have no right to do so, they are, on the contrary, in the processional dependence on them. Now, about the pressure of executive power. You know, until there's no fair authority until the pressure stops. But such a law that will ensure that there is no procedural influence, and now this law provides for a lack of which and provides for a guarantee, it will just reduce any influence, you know. When a person is governed solely by law and is confident tomorrow and knows that a criminal case against him can only be violated by the Henprosecutor's office, I don't think he's going to be pressured. Well, it all depends on conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u119	Yes, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you're exhausted all the time. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u120	Vladimir Kirilovich screams that I did not satisfy him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u121	I understand. Have a seat, please. The committee will be briefed by the National MP. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. The Legislature Committee at its meeting supported the bill. It is aimed at improving the functioning of the investigative apparatus, primarily internal affairs, as it refers to the failure of investigators to engage in other work, as is done in this body. At the same time, it should be noted that the project’s standards are not entirely acceptable. In paragraph 7 of this article. 4 It is the duty of the investigator to conduct and organize search and search operations. This situation contradicts the status of the investigator and does not comply with the CPC and the Ukrainian Operational Search Act. So it's not an investigative function, it's going to make it dependent on the results of operational activity. You may agree with the investigator’s right to prove to the relevant authorities the direction and operational work on specific matters and no more. The author of the bill in the second paragraph of article 12, which gave the court the authority of the supervisory authority, indicated that the court had the right to prosecute a criminal case in the course of the investigation, to conduct an investigation, to examine it, to give instructions, as defined. A crime. This does not apply to the jurisdiction of the court and practically makes the court dependent on the outcome of the pretrial investigation. Moreover, under the current legislation, no one has the right to impose the will of an investigator on the qualification of unlawful acts or the involvement of someone in criminal liability. The supervisory functions of the conduct of the judicial investigation of the Constitution are referred to the authority of the Public Prosecutor’s Office. We cannot agree that the investigator must have immunity from administrative responsibility. This violates the principle of equal liability before the law regardless of the situation. There's a discrepancy between criminal and procedural legislation in article 16. This rule stipulates that without the investigator’s permission, no one has the right to disclose the evidence of the pretrial investigation, while the CPC is given the right to the prosecutor, but within the limits of the law. Furthermore, according to the Constitution and other laws, the size of the official salary, the title and class allowances and the service of years, other types of financial security are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not by the President of Ukraine. So it would also be appropriate for article 20, paragraph 3, to bring it into line with the law. Taking into account the comments made, the law can be adopted in the first reading, but I cannot help but express my clear and consistent position that, if we want to get rid of any dependence or influence, we need to get out of the context of the transitional provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and of the ninth Transitional Regulations of the Basic Law, by creating a self-sustaining apparatus independent of any body. Anything else is a Validium-like injection in a complex operation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u123	Thank you. Please sign up for a question, three minutes. Please explain. Manchulenko, get ready for Orzhachowski. Mikhail Alexiyovich, ask you a question. Manchulenko, get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u124	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". The Honorary Reporter, four entities are conducting a pretrial investigation, have the right to conduct it, and the investigators are dependent on the leaders of these structures to confirm this may be the situation surrounding the so - called elections of Mayor Mukachevo. How long has it been? The follow-up is being carried out. The pressure on the investigators is probably happening, because I think that something could be explored by now. So the question behind this is, in this situation, can we legislatively do something to minimize the influence of the heads of the structures on the investigators? Whether it's in the system of these four structures that have the right to a trial or to create a separate structure as envisaged, perhaps the transitional positions of the Constitution of Ukraine. Your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u125	I've expressed my clear position at the end of this series that, until there's a single investigative device, all these questions will arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u126	Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u127	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Communist Party. Mikhail Alexiovich! I agree that there is a rather serious status problem with the protection of investigators. I have a question for you that the legislator and, more faithfully, how the legislator could guarantee both status guarantees and adequate protection for young investigators this year and so forth. Because it's going to be hard enough for them to get involved with the system that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u128	Here, Comrade Carmazin, I think, for that reason, for the specific circumstances of a particular law, he's reported, and I'm not going to stop at that. But once again, I want to say that there's not much law left, and I need this law to be implemented. For the second time, it is protected by investigative legislation, and no one has the right to force it, so to speak. Well, the facts that you call them happen another time, and that's already a practice, not some additional legislation that's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u129	Please, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u130	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Odeschina Dear Mikhailo Alexiyovich, I have a question for you. Article 14 of the bill provides that a person who is involved in the conduct of investigations and other activities is to be held accountable. But to this day, there is no order in any law. So don't you think of it as a very experienced person who needs to make changes or additions to the Law, for example, the Code of Administrative Offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u131	It's a moral issue, I think, to a greater extent. Because where is the limit to where this morality is being violated and where it is not. So I think that where there's law, it's clearly defined, and we can. And where it touches morale and then attracts it, it can lead to delusion. That's why I'm against this position of law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u132	Thank you, Mikhail Alexiyovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Vote? I am voting on the draft Law on the Status and Procedural and Social Guarantees of Ukraine's Investigators on its adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 4125]] Please vote. [[12:56:51]] For 341 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Let us now consider making decisions on the issues under discussion. Draft decree on information to the Cabinet of Ministers on the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere. Responsible to the committee, Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please, out of the way. Demöchin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. The Committee prepared a draft decision following the Government's Government Day. Two technical errors were made as the project was prepared on short notice. The first is the missing numbering. The third item of the Cabinet of Ministers is paragraph 3. And the second. The "3d" item is mistakenly included. The Committee supported the draft decision without paragraph 3 (d). We ask that we support the draft regulation as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u134	I'll put it to a vote. It's a voter's ticket.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u135	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, as Ukraine’s national deputy, I took advantage of my right, and on June 16, I corrected my proposals to the committee. None counted. So I ask you to lay the groundwork first and then vote on my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u136	Your suggestions are not reproduced in writing. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u137	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, though, is a very important decision to be taken by the Supreme Council. The pressing issues are the state issues and the pricing and tariffs on residential areas. Unfortunately, Vladimir Anatoliyovich limited himself to speaking out of place, very briefly and without even saying what proposals from those draft rulings that were considered by the Supreme Council were included. In particular, as you recall, there was a draft resolution on this issue that we made along with the leader of our faction, the party Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. We'd like to hear, after all, the faction, what is included in our draft decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u138	Yes, dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue. Once again, we've discussed this, we have a decision to make with you today. You have a motion for a ruling that the committee is proposing. Now we're also going to base this project. Then we'll take into account what Eshchenko was offering, they're not accounted for, they're not considered. So I'm voting on adoption as a basis for a draft decision on the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere. Registration number 5014-D. [[13:00:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Here's a proposition, be careful, there's a proposal on the committee that suggests that the government's work on housing policy is not enough. The proposal made by Lechchenko is the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the conduct of pricing and tariff policies in the housing and utility sphere to be considered unsatisfactory. I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:01:27]] For-152. The decision is not taken. Semenyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u139	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, when I was discussing the draft decision, it was an alternative project, this is Deputy Seminouk and Frost. If the Economic Policy Committee is considering the issue, we need to make a comparative table, and each proposal is voted separately, or they have done it again, one project has been put together, and no proposals can be seen. This is a breach of the Rules first. Let them do as they are told, and on Thursday they will be brought to the table, because nothing will be accepted at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u140	Yes, please turn on Demjochin's microphone, please explain why there are no alternative draft regulations?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u141	We have only submitted a decree prepared by the Committee and have taken into account a number of proposals. Unaccounted for by the people. The proposal would also not be considered unsatisfactory with regard to the moratorium. If the Hall decides and respected colleagues decide that a table should be prepared for second reading, the Committee is prepared to do so, but given that the Committee is heavily loaded today, I am not sure that we will be able to do so on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote, commissioning the committee to prepare a solution to take into account the proposals for alternative solutions and bring it to the session room. Please vote. [[13:03:29]] For 244 Decision taken. There is a draft decree on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings "Women's Habitat in Ukraine: Realities and Perspectives". We need to make a decision. Please, it's Widow's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen. Gennady Josephovich, please. Ladies and gentlemen, our official visit is the Austrian Parliamentary delegation headed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Leila Andrew. The delegation is now in a diplomatic bed. Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to welcome high guests and to wish them a fruitful stay on Ukrainian soil. [[Applause]] Thank you. Henry Josephovich's microphone, please. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, Australia.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u144	Dear people's deputies, well, we're back to degenerating gender issues. Well, can you give one minute for that? On June 9, a significant event took place in our country: parliamentary hearings on gender issues. Seven hundred women came from all over Ukraine. I urge you to support those suggestions that are included in the transcript. Each offer is not overlooked. This is a very important question. The only thing to do is to make the amendment that we ask, we propose to listen to the government, to spend the day of government, not in November, but in December. This is on page 5. I urge you to think about your wives, your daughters, your nieces. Vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposals are convincing. The project has been developed to take into account your suggestions and additions. That's why there's everyone to vote: on the approval of the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations: "Women's Landing in Ukraine: Realities and Perspectives" with the clarification that Hennady Josipovich said. Registration number 5692. Please vote. [[13:06:22]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Get to the factions! I was so excited that I misrepresented the delegation. I apologize, and once again I would like to welcome the official delegation of the Austrian Parliament, headed by Australia, with the speaker of Australia, headed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Leilo Andrew. Let's say hello again, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u146	So let's go to the chapter. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" in -84, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 49, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 4, Democratic Initiatives, "The People's Government" - 15, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 4, Union - 14, NDP, Industrialists - 2, Center - 1, Postfraction - 7. Now we have the chapter “To return to the returned laws”. From Grachev's procedure, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u147	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, how do the return to the returned laws relate to the corresponding provisions of the Rules? Should we not go to the next chapter with a reduced procedure and leave it to look at the fall?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, these were committee proposals, and this was due to the fact that when the political temperature in Parliament rose, some documents were put to the vote and were not voted out of political mere moments. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the return, the proposal, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 04.03.2004. Please vote. [[13:09:17]] For 362 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The draft law and the proportions expressed by the President are fully considered by the committee. So we have every reason to vote on the adoption of the law in a new edition with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I am voting for the adoption of the new Ukrainian Law on Change to the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2041-1]] Please vote. [[13:10:06]] For 378 Decision taken. It is announced before a review of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 04.03.2004. I put the vote back on the bill. Please vote. [[13:10:39]] For 377 Decision taken. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, very briefly, since we have discussed this matter. Recall the nature of the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The point of the problem is that the third time the draft law with proposals from the President of Ukraine is being reviewed, because there is now one nuance that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. This is about the fact that the Ukrainian State has the right and the possibility of borrowing not only on the basis of inter-State agreements in other states and financial institutions but also in banks. And you know, several times, this kind of agreement comes to Parliament for ratification. Here in this law, there are no issues relating to lending to banks, so the President proposes, in precise terms, as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine, that banks should also be given the floor. In this, finally, the whole point of the question can be told in all the articles as reflected. Please support the perfectly logical proposal of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u150	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Igor the rest of you from the committee. Dear colleagues. The substance of the proposal was understood that paragraph (c), in section 2 of article 9 of the law, after the words "receiving Ukraine from foreign states" should be supplemented by the word "banks".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u152	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the constitutional norm in question gives the Supreme Council authority to approve decisions on, inter alia, Ukraine's receiving a loan from banks, the proposal is that the word "banks" be added to the text of the paragraph, but the basic law does not determine the form of such a decision. There is thus no reason to say that this rule is about ratifying international treaties, rather than, rather, because Parliament’s mandate to consent to the obligations of international treaties, i.e. ratification, is established by another special norm of the same article of the Constitution, para. 32, part 1. I would like to say that the President’s proposal freely extends to subjects of international public law to whom it is proposed unilaterally to refer foreign banks that are not subjects of international law. However, the relationship under the treaties of one of the foreign banks to date has not been and cannot be subject to international public law in the near future. Relevant relations are governed by international private law and, in our view, cannot be subject to regulation of this law. It is this rightful personality that is formed in the adopted Supreme Council in the first reading of the draft Law on International Private Law. Therefore, honourable colleagues have also considered the status of the World Bank and the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which are basically a party or party to many of the agreements when lending loans to Ukraine. Neither the World Bank nor the International Monetary Fund are banks in the direct sense of the word, these are international financial organizations. Let's say the World Bank is made up of 184 member states. So to say that the World Bank or the IMF is just a bank, there's obviously no reason. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after considering this issue, proposes that other proposals be editorial rights, overcome the President's veto and vote, confirm its own wording, the previous drafting of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u154	You all have it, don't you? Then sit down, please. Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please turn it on. We will now vote on the President's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u155	Vitaly Šibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party of Dnipropetrovsk Dear colleagues, you know that this law has a long history and a long time ago. The point is that we have already passed some of the positions that have been laid down in this law with a view to taking into account the President's proposals. You understand that there was an article that said that the Supreme Council had the right to control these actions. But it was with the President's insistence that this issue was dealt with several times, and then, on some reading, we lost that question, we refused. That's the first one. That is, you are now well aware of the situation we are in with regard to all of these situations. That's the first one. And the second. I'd still like to take a look and ask Lavrinovich this question before we vote. Is the IMF a universal organization or not? Does it have the capacity as one working in the UN system to act as a bank?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u156	Please, if you'll excuse us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u157	When it comes to the International Monetary Fund, it has its status. And it certainly works as an international fund in this case. And with regard to the World Bank and the Bank of Reconstruction and Development, they are called banks, they carry out banking operations, and so are other banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote the amendment by the President of Ukraine, which the committee rejected. Paragraph "in" in part two of article nine of the law after the words "receiving Ukraine from foreign states" complement the word "banks". Please vote. [[13:16:57]] For-188. Correction not accepted. I now put to the vote a proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian International Contracts Act. Registration number 0924. [[13:17:31]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There is a proposal to vote on it in a new edition, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Is there no objection? Not one, the first amendment that I put to the vote, all the other amendments are included. Please, Igor Ostash, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u159	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has just considered all five amendments and proposes four amendments, from second to fifth, to support and to reject the first amendment on banks. And you could vote in this new edition. And there is a request for the committee to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, it was this proposal that I put to the vote first that she did not receive the appropriate support. That's why I'm putting to the vote the last sentence -- the adoption of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act in a new reading, taking into account four proposals by the President of Ukraine and one by rejecting one. Please vote. Registration number 0924. [[13:18:51]] For 405 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I am voting for the return to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for Further Exploitation, the Removal from the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES to an Environmentally Safe System, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 08.04. 2004 Please vote. [[13:19:31]] For 378 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two proposals were made by the President before this bill, and they are all taken into account. The committee proposes to approve the Law in a new edition with the President's proposals, which will be put to the vote. There is a vote on the proposal for adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on General Principles for Further Exploitation, on Removal from the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and on Conversion of the Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES to an Environmentally Safe System, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 3641. Please vote. [[13:20:29]] For 410 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now put to the vote, please note, the consideration of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine dated 28 January 2002. Registration number 0900. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:21:11]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Bill rejected [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, dear fellows. We'll put it again next time. A draft law on the combined production of heat and electricity, cogeneration and the use of energy savings is being announced. There are 225, no decisions made in the previous bill. Sabashuk, please, Peter Pavlovich. Is it? Please. Dear colleagues, it turns out that this project also needs to be voted back on. I'm voting for a return to the draft law on combined heat and electricity production, cogeneration, and the use of reduced energy potential. Registration number 2583. [[13:22:25]] For 388 Decision taken. Please, Peter Pavlovich, let us make adjustments immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u161	I'm sorry, I'm very worried because this law once failed my colleague Dusty, but it was just a simple mistake. The amendment made by the MP Rudzikowski had been withdrawn. I'm not going to talk about the law much, and I want to say to Tony Blair, "The gains from cogeneration are impressive: public heating schemes using cogeneration help to alleviate the fuel deficit by providing affordable heat and cheap electricity from a reliable local source." I couldn't have said it better. What I want to say is, I'm sorry, I'm going to go over to the Ukrainian language: we've done this law to make it essential: to resuscitate our utility energy, to resuscitate our thermal networks, and to give free access to electrical networks, because this law understands the reconstruction of our boilers into small power stations, and so do what is being done today: to get online. So there are non-states on the net today, and they are very often hindering the free entry of the network. So I ask you to uphold this law. It will be consistent with those laws, the Law on Reforming Municipal Economy, and it will be able to provide cheap heat and electricity for our cities. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, all the amendments that have been made are all taken into account by the committee. So it's all about putting the committee's proposal to a vote: the adoption of the second reading and, in general, the bill of the Law on the Combined Production of Heat and Electricity and the Use of Saving Energy Potential. Registration number 2583. Please vote. [[13:24:35]] For 385
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u163	Thank you. I think it'll be warm in our homes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u164	The law is passed. A draft Ukrainian Code of Procedure is being announced for consideration. Mikola Onichtuk. Please, Mikola Vasilovich. This was a rereading of the first reading. Briefly argue, and we'll vote now. Those differences that we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u165	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable Presidency, Honourable People's Deputies! On Friday, 26th, I reported in detail to the hall three bills to amend the agricultural procedural law. And now all I have to say is that the Committee on Legal Policy is asking the Supreme Council, first, to return to its consideration; secondly, the Committee, with the agreement of the authors of all these bills, the government, Victor Musiyaki, who is one of the authors, Mikli Onichuka, has agreed that we will take the basis of a government bill, form a working group and continue to work on them. In this way, Parliament will allow for the holidays that we are now going to actually allow the working group to start working on these bills. And the reason why we don't vote them out is because we've put ourselves in charge of updating Ukrainian procedural legislation, and we've done something about it, because from January 1st of next year, there's a new Civil Procedure Code. On Thursday, we will vote on new administrative and procedural, criminal and procedural laws. So I ask you to support the positive proposal for approval in the first reading of the government bill. There were remarks to this bill by the national deputy Semenyuk, and we had a conversation with her. In particular, the Commission, the Parliamentary Commission, the Special Privatisation Commission, has the opportunity and this has been provided in the procedural law to act on behalf of citizens to protect their interests in the privatization process. I think in the second reading we'll take this proposal into account. This applies to article 26 of the bill, indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u166	No objection, dear colleagues? Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u167	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, I agree that the government's better, Mikola Vasilovich, of course, has been written, but also Musiyaki's bill, and your bills have to be taken into account. You didn't say anything about me making proposals for two specific articles back then. They then entered the transcript of the meeting. And I'd like to ask, because we define a conceptual approach to this law, which depends on how I vote for it or against it, let's say, protocolly, what I've said from this rostrum. You remember them, they were quite right. I would like to support this approach and then make the decision you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! I think that we are now at a stage where all the proposals made by the people's deputies, in particular what our colleague George Carmazin says, should be considered in detail, because we want to create a new Master's Procedural Law that fits both the spirit of time and European standards, and, by the way, was harmonized with the new Civil Procedure Code. And all the suggestions that make this particular ideology a goal will no doubt be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the adoption as the basis for the draft Ukrainian Code of Procedure. [[Registration number 4157-2, government]] Taking into account the amendment that Mikola Onichuk made regarding Valentina Petrovna’s offer to the head of the Special Monitoring Commission. Please vote. [[13:28:53]] For 331 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'm voting for a return to the draft Ukrainian Housing Code. [[Registration number 3584]] Please vote. [[13:29:25]] For 261 Decision taken. Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sent a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine asking for a vote after we had considered the Supreme Council and the drafting of the Housing Code for re-voting. The Code of Housing of the U.S.S.R. was introduced in 1984. Over time, changes and additions have been made. But so far, there are proposals to make new changes. Nevertheless, the Housing Code contains outdated laws, definitions, and concepts. The bill was discussed at the All-Ukrainian Scientific and Practical Conference on Housing Policy and Housing Reconstruction, at municipal hearings 9 times and at round tables in Odessa, in other cities of Ukraine. With the participation of a wide range of representatives of central executive bodies, public institutions, and other organizations. The draft Ukrainian Housing Code proposed by the government was discussed at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, as I said earlier on November 26, February 5, where it was voted in favour of 192, 213 people’s deputies. Considering that the lack of a new Ukrainian Housing Code directs, it restrains further reform of housing and housing development in general, the Cabinet of Ministers requests a re-voting in the first reading, and we support this in order to be able to work on the committee together with representatives of all parliamentary groups and factions in Parliament. I would like to draw attention to paragraph 4 of the regulation, where we call for a number of bills to be drafted to ensure the rights of socially vulnerable groups during the transitional period, the introduction of the standards of the Ukrainian Housing Code and the further application of these rules. We also believe that it is necessary to create a single order of looking at existing housing conditions and creating a housing line for the general purpose housing fund and the social welfare fund. Please note that the bill on the basics of Ukrainian housing policy in the area of housing maintenance and utility, registration number 2460 was introduced in exchange for the signatures of the national deputies of Romerouk, Koval, Desert Tent, Reznik and so on. The committee requests support for the draft decision. The article on forced eviction of citizens was excluded from this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the draft rulings take into account all the warnings that have been made, namely, honourable colleagues, to exclude article 4 from article 94 on eviction by decision of the court of tenants who pay for housing, i.e., all the warnings that were raised in the previous consideration are included, including in paragraph 4 of the draft decision. So there's every reason, your honorary colleagues, to put to the vote a proposal for a committee on acceptance on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Housing Code, registration number 3584, taking into account the warnings made in the committee's respective recommendations. Please vote. [[13:33:18]] For 283 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u172	Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft decree amending the Ukrainian law on the legal regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, registration number 5587. Please vote. Vote. [[13:33:57]] For 367 Yes, thank you. For -367. Decision taken. Review of the reduced procedure as agreed. Please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko. The author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! A group of Ukrainian National Deputies, which represents virtually all the factions of our Parliament, is proposing to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences Property Complex. What is involved in these changes? This Law on the Legal Status of the Academy has been in force for two years. It regulated the special status of the National Academy of Sciences, but if you know that apart from the National Academy of Sciences, we have other branches of the Academy of Sciences. For example, agrarian academy, pedagogical academy, and so forth. In order for these institutes, also state-owned, to have the same rights with the National Academy, we propose that this law be distributed to these Academy of Sciences. They have the right to defend the earth, to own property, to gain independence, and so forth. I propose, on behalf of the authors of this bill, to adopt it in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u175	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please. There is no Igor Raphaelovich. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Who insists on the performance? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I wanted us to take this bill more seriously because it's not that simple. It's not just a name change, it's a sectoral academy reference, and it's their support. And because of the legal position of property, it was called "The Specifics of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine" it was a law called. And now we want to call it "The specifics of the legal regime of the activities of the National Academy, of the Sectoral Academy and the status of their property complex. It is not possible to adopt such a bill on two readings. There is a need to make changes, to make warnings, to remove the position that the academics in general accept the statutes of the academy, and to make changes and additions that apply to the Kabmin’s approval and approval, since the management of the property complex goes there. We need to protect all state rights. We need to anticipate state control.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u177	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I want to say again. Maybe you didn't get it, and I might have said something in a hurry. We're not saying that we just change the name of this law. We're saying that the positions that apply to the National Academy of Sciences regarding ownership of land, property, and property. We're also spreading in the sciences academy. In this connection, the authors and the Committee on Science and Education unanimously propose to change the name of this law and to call it "The Specifics of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences and Industrial Academy of Sciences". And one more thing I'd like to say to you, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies. We had a big discussion on the committee. If we get past this law, we can't find half the property after we leave the Academy of Sciences. As for related issues, we do not do anything new; we simply promote the rights of the National Academy in the field. These are government institutions that are self-governing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u178	Nigger. One minute, now. Nigga, then Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, Deputy Carmazin is harsh, but not just, but not always just. In this case, I think it is. The role and significance of the sectoral academics are now growing significantly. In fact, their status is not defined by law. They don't have the right, they don't have the ability to realize their potential. And the distribution of the status of the National Academy, to some extent at least, will contribute to their effective work. So I think we have reason to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u180	So this is about the State Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u181	Catherine Vaschuk, please, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, the law is just in time. First of all, he's protecting the property of the academy, and that's very important because there's a lot of people willing to waste it. And the second is that it helps the financial budgets of the academy to receive, say, land leases to an academy budget, agrarian, for example. It's a law very timely. It needs to be supported and supported, I think they have all the factions here, because it supports our national science at the academic level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u183	Dear colleagues. Budagyans, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u184	Budagyantz Nikolai, 110 constituency, Unit For Ukraine. I have a question of this nature: Nikolayevich, please tell me, is there an Engineerna in this list of sectoral academies?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u185	No, they're public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u186	With regard to your appeal before that to the committee around the Engineering Academy, we discussed it on the committee, by the way, and we should say that most of our deputies agreed that the importance of this engineering academy was great. We wrote a letter on behalf of the committee to consider this problem at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. If the Cabinet of Ministers agrees, we will simply add it to it once we recognize its status, by standardizing it. Now we can't add it because it doesn't have that status. But what's the problem, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the legal regime of the property complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the State Industrial Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I'm stressing "states." Please vote. [[13:41:37]] For 376 Decision taken. I would like to draw attention to the committee's proposal for adoption as a whole as a bill amending the Ukrainian law on the legal regime of the property complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the State Industrial Academy of Sciences. Registration number 5587. Please vote. [[13:42:15]] For 321 Dear colleagues! One moment, now, Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear colleagues, your argument was more than convincing that today we must do everything we can to protect the property of the State Academy. For as long as we are with you in the second and third reading, there will be nothing left to defend. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I object to this consideration. This is contrary to the Rules. Look at the law, article four: create, reorganize, eliminate organizations that are in their knowledge, act as founders of enterprises with mixed forms of ownership." This, on the other hand, is done for another purpose. Then take the article five: the characteristics of the alienation of property and sectoral academics, and the National Academy. This is the way, on the contrary, for the normal takeover of the property that's already in these academies. And today, when we could make changes and suggestions there, you don't want to do that. What was the purpose of two readings? It's totally illegal. I reserve the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to do this again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u189	Thank you. I won't be any more. Stanislaw Nikolainko, let him say it. Please. Stanislaw Nikolainka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u190	Nicolanca. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, well, I don't think anyone here would dare accuse me of lobbying any personal interests, because it never was and never will be. We have branches and National Academys created, first of all, for development, excuse me, fundamental science and sectoral science. I mean, what you read is not money. This law has been in force for the third year. And we didn't write anything new, we just extended the standards that worked, to the National Academy and to the branch. And how do you want private property to be organized by the National Academy today: what if there were other forms of ownership? But you didn't realize that no one has the right without the Cabinet of Ministers to hand over the land, no one has the right to hand over without the Cabinet of Ministers, the building, and so forth. So it's nothing, there's no moments here that, let's say, the interests of the state are being violated here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u191	Thank you. I think we've come to terms with this, Your Honor, the law has been passed. Now, let's go to the draft of the Law on Ensuring the Permanent Work of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. Registration number 50475. I'm voting on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:45:20.]] For 234 Decision taken. Reporter: National Deputy Oleg Grigorovich Panasovski, please. Prepare Vladimir Bronnikov. Please, Oleg Grigorovich will act both as the author and as a member of the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u192	Thank you. Respectable colleagues. Your attention is very important to the industry and the country, and please pay particular attention. Since 1994, the energy industry has been transferred to a mechanism for the supply of electricity that completely excludes the payment of all categories of consumers. Practically, energy has been assigned to the role of the consumer buffer, for which a fixed level of electricity prices has been maintained, and to fuel suppliers that have switched to market prices. The rate of retail electricity prices was maintained exclusively through a negative energy industry for years. The electricity supply mechanism has led to non-payments and is growing in barter operations. Only in 2001 has the situation of controlling payments been reversed. In general, it has not been possible to correct the situation in the energy sector to date. Debt accumulated in connection with this non-payment makes it impossible to stabilize the current financial situation and provoke bankruptcy and executive production. Under such conditions, it is not possible to plan the current technological process or to implement investment programmes that the industry so needs, taking into account the level of core expenditure. For information. We have the energy potential of a practical resource. More than 70 power blocks of Ukrainian thermal stations have worked out a resource that exceeds the world's limit on physical wear. The industry does not have the means to restore existing generators or even to rehabilitate them. The industry does not receive a minimum of funds to ensure the sustainable operation of thermal stations. Electricity tariffs do not cover the cost of production. The energy industry, which has adopted all the costs of inefficient energy-intensive productions, the incapacity of enterprises and the population has been depreciated. The current short-term lending of generating companies has led to the final destruction of the industry's economy. The credit dependency of the generating companies of TEC has become a threat and has led to a further deterioration in their financial situation. In the past two years alone, energy-generating companies have been forced to attract more than 4.5 billion bracelets. It should be taken into account that energy enterprises are not subject to cash-based taxation methods for income tax and VAT, which, combined with the assumption of electricity, results in the industry's industry's removal of working capital and further delays the debt gap.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u193	Please continue, as the reporter is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u194	Think about the numbers. The receivables of the generating companies amount to 16 billion, 14. Over the years of our independence, the country's budget gap has been financed through the withdrawal of funds from energy and related industries. TEC has been lending almost all these years to industry throughout the country. This process could not be permanent and would result in total industry bankruptcy. Traditionally high-cost, assuredly profitable across the world, the industry is working today with a negative rate of profitability and profitability. The forecast is clear: the problems of the industry will soon become problems for the country. There has been a situation where the energy sector has become a barrier to Ukraine's economic growth. The situation must be changed and one of the first steps in changing the situation is the adoption of the law. The adoption of this law will help to improve the financial stability of TEC enterprises. This law cannot be formally evaluated because it is about how and how to save the industry. Dear colleagues, the main thing that should unite our constituency, regardless of our political dialogue orientation, is that we must adopt laws that are in the interest of a State that do not deter production, but that ensure its sustainable development. Moreover, when it comes to an industry that is a potential for stability in the State. I impeccably ask you to vote in favour of this law. The law has been legalized, approved in the deliberations of its special committee, the Mintopenergo and the Cabinet of Ministers support this project and recommends that it be adopted. Bearing in mind that in the course of the discussion, this draft text takes into account all fundamental differences and views. I request that this law be passed in full. If this law is not enacted, there may be socio-economic and other consequences. Frankly, we can all be members of the funeral team and the industry together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u195	Yes. Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Three national deputies were enrolled. Yuri Carmazin has the floor to prepare. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session for 15 minutes. Yuri Carmazin, please prepare Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u196	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! A law that has now been reported on "Providing the continued operation of electricity" subjects. The Panasovski People's Deputy is forced to submit because in principle, it contradicts many of the documents that we have accepted in this room. And of course, if we were to approach from a purely legal point of view, we would have to stand still today in order not to miss this law. But Law 5457 has only two articles: the first cases of bankruptcy of electrical objects engaged in manufacturing, transmission, and supply. the date of entry into force and only until April 1, 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, I think by April 1, 2005, Ukraine will have a new, honest government. I think it's going to be led by Victor Yashchenk, and I think that the question of bankruptcy of electricity subjects will be solved in itself, there will be no bankruptcy. I realize that the author wants to stop the introduction of bankruptcy cases of listed entities that were violated before the law came into force. But then we need to make changes, in addition to everything else, by adopting this law in the first reading, in the Civil Code of Agriculture, into the code that we have just adopted in the first reading of the Code of Masters, and by doing so. Otherwise, without a comprehensive approach, the law itself cannot act. Therefore, the very approach to the need to ask questions about the enforcement of property, about ensuring the continued operation of energy subjects, this approach itself, of course, is wrong, it comes from life, but this moratorium can be effective in determining who, on the basis of which property the funds will be charged to creditors. I think we're going to have to ask creditors to wait for an honest government to pass. And also to ask people to wait, because I'm sure we'll go back to illegal privatization and Crookstals and other illegally privatized objects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u197	Is there a Andrew School? None. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, if the energy situation were constant, there would be no need for a law to ensure the continuous operation of the fuel-energy complex. I agree here with Deputy Karmazin that this bill is forced is a response to the situation that has arisen. The situation is bound to react. In this regard, I also support the proposal to adopt the bill. Of course, we understand very well that this is a palate, that this is not the solution to the question that we have to go back to the question of bankruptcy of companies in the fuel and energy complex. But at least right now, I think the reaction is adequate. We're used to fighting forest fires. This is a typical classic example of how we use this method. But the Supreme Council is obliged to carry out its legislative function and control function, especially in such an important field as energy. And so, I think the Panasovski MP did the right thing by proposing a bill. And I suggest you accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u199	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Rudzikovsky Mikola, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u200	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The adoption of this law will allow us to preserve half of the energy that is now in bankruptcy in state ownership. An artificial situation has been created on many of the skyscrapers, on many heat plants, on artificial debt, and now these enterprises are going bankrupt. Who Are They Taking Out Bankruptcy? Part of those national MPs who rarely visit our hall and part of those oligarchs who have not yet come to Parliament, but I am convinced that they will pay any price to sit in the next parliament. I think that this law needs to be adopted today as a whole, because the bankruptcy process is going on, and the state has no effective mechanism of opposition. By the way, those people who started these processes from Kabmin are probably not worse off, who are now probably dealing with bankruptcy, that this is the way to fully privatize energy, because, on the one hand, we're setting fixed prices for electricity, on the other hand, fixed prices for coal, and businesses, especially those that produce electricity, are in lenses. We need to release them and give the government the opportunity to restructure in this area so that state-generating enterprises don't end up in the hands of our energy oligarches for nothing. It's unacceptable. We must now vote and defend the State’s right to state ownership of energy objects. It's in the interests of both Ukraine and Parliament and electricity consumers, because we can see that those skyscrapers that are privatized are higher prices for electricity supply. Those who are in state ownership are more resilient in electricity and do not engage in the kind of self-sustaining activity that privatized skyscrapers do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I have an offer, please! Article five, paragraph two, concludes: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensure that this law is enforced. Let's rule out, because then we have to write to keep the Cabinet of Ministers going to work. Well, that's it. The fish swims in the water, that's understandable. Is there no objection to this second point? Then, taking this proposal into account, I'm voting for adoption on the basis of a draft Ukrainian law on ensuring the continuous operation of fuel and energy companies. Registration number 5475. Please vote. [[13:59:04]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, announcing. Yes, we have to vote for inclusion. A draft law on measures to ensure the continued operation of the fuel-energy complex is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5476. I am voting on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda and the decision-making process. Please vote. [[13:59:53]] For 234 Decision taken. Oleg Grigorovich Panasovski, please. Both from the committee and from the drafters. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u202	Respectable comrades! The issue before you today has been discussed on several occasions at different levels. This is a question of ensuring the stable functioning of TEC enterprises through a moratorium on recovery and forced sale of TEC assets. The bill is intended to support the work of TEC enterprises during the period of preparation for the autumn winter period. The main objective of the bill is to ensure energy and economic security, to ensure a stable financial state of electricity, which is an essential principle of public policy under the Ukrainian Energy Act. This can be achieved, as has already been said, by establishing a moratorium on the alienation of property. The moratorium is introduced before 1 May 2005, i.e. before the legislative settlement of the debt settlement mechanism. The need to implement this rule is due to the prevailing situation in TEC: the existence of large accounts payable, the payment of electricity, the volatile financial situation. A serious problem for all enterprises, therefore, is the existence of debt for energy and non-contributory resources. This results in huge fines and fines, lawsuits by creditors. In turn, generating companies cannot take similar measures and actions towards their main receivable, the Energy Company. As a result, the calculation accounts of the generating companies are blocked, the operation of the power plants is paralyzed, a repair campaign is disrupted to determine the industry's readiness to fall and winter maximum. To date, the normal practice has been to initiate bankruptcy cases for generating enterprises and to force the confiscation of the assets of those enterprises. For example, at various stages of bankruptcy, there are currently major Ukrainian energy producers such as NEC Energoatem, Dneprenergo, Centrenergo and others. Such actions endanger the normal functioning of these enterprises, could lead to a halt, which in turn would have a negative social impact on the country. Of course, this problem cannot be resolved only within the framework of the law, in isolation from an integrated legislative settlement of the accrual mechanism. At the same time, the adoption of this law will largely depend on the timely and appropriate training of TEC enterprises for the autumn winter period. It should be borne in mind - I note - that the establishment of a moratorium should not be regarded as the exemption of enterprises from their payment obligations, including before the budget, but rather as a temporary measure by which TEC enterprises would be able to properly prepare and pass the winter max. The adoption of this law does not violate or contravene the articles of the Constitution, since this law does not repeal the decisions taken by the courts before and after its adoption, they remain in force and their implementation is suspended until the first of May 2005. That is, the law provides for an extended period of implementation for that period. After the expiry of the moratorium, TEC business creditors have the opportunity to submit their debt recovery and compliance requirements to the TEC entity as appropriate. The law is positive, practically important for the TEC business, and it will enable the financial and economic situation in TEC to be stabilized in the autumn winter. I very much ask you to vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u203	Thank you. Sit down, please. No questions asked, it's a reduced procedure. Sit down, please. Yeah, who's to be discussed. Carmazin was already speaking from this bill. Please, Nigger. Please, Cherniak, and then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, of course, it would be better if there were no such bill as Panasovski proposes. But the situation requires an adequate response. These bills are temporary. We'll go back to dealing with bankruptcy and other energy issues. But at the moment, when these businesses are being bankrupted, they are being priced for nothing. I'd even agree to that. If only they had been used effectively afterwards. If only he had been an effective owner, who really cared about interests. But we don't see it. That's why I'm said to be tearing up a shirt on my chest in this situation and voting in favour of these bills with disgust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u205	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u206	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Sir, my friend, Professor Cherniak! You will not vote for this bill after I speak. Because this bill can be called, rename: the repeal of the Constitution of Ukraine on the industries of the fuel and energy complex, which belong to certain oligarchic clans represented in this room, are presented in the government bed. That's what this bill should be called. Why? What is proposed? To write off your debt, which means you're to blame, and you say, "Let's write down now, that's, let's stop the Constitution, the laws, the Enforcement Act," which you're set up to do. Just write it down. Who's to write it down? And where does the Ministry of Finance conclude on the value of the impact of this law, so-called, on the income and expenditure portion of the budget? It's nothing. Where is the agreement of these people? You asked for the consent of those companies. Are you guilty? Do you think only of these businesses now? And we have a lot of other businesses that aren't represented here, and they haven't fallen for their participation here. Next. It is proposed to write off the debt owed to undertakings of the fuel and energy complex for energy and services from their transfer, transportation and supply, which has passed the limitation period, liabilities for goods, jobs, services consumed in the process of production, transfer and supply of energy supplies, after which the sums of pennies, fines and financial sanctions have been paid but not paid. Then it's proposed. A state-owned energy company in front of the state-owned firm NEK Krennergo, the state-owned enterprise National Energy Company Energoatom, and payment to the target sector fund for the creation of the nuclear fuel cycle of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. I mean, everyone who wants to pay for this fund, and they're not going to pay for it. In addition, we are restructuring lending and receivables to state and municipal companies of the fuel and energy complex, as well as to companies with statutory funds of more than 50 per cent. And what about the Property Act, which says that everyone is equal, all forms of property, whether it's a rural cooperative or a collective enterprise. So, honourable national MPs, this is a purely lobbyist bill that has no way of passing through this hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u207	Thank you. Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, the question is really questionable, which way of greater or lesser evil should we go today. If we support this law, we will secure that by April 2005 we will hold in state property the objects that are now in bankruptcy. It's guaranteed. This will enable the State to restructure, take appropriate steps to preserve these energy objects in the state. What is the essence of the problem in energy? You remember this year, not even 2003 — all from 1995 to 2002, when 20 percent less money was invested in the Ukraine’s budget for utilities — social problems. And then NAK Naftogaz of Ukraine and energy systems, energy gave power to businesses, gave to utilities and so on. No one ever paid for this because there were no sources of payment. There were debts, more than 15 billion dollars, and then these debts became goods, and these debts were sold for contract notices. And it turns out that the state-owned enterprises are now required by commercial structures to take them into their private property by nominal means. And so, of course, what George Carmazin said is true. But if we don't adopt this law, it's clearly going to lead to one, that within six months 90 percent of the energy will go through this mechanism, because the problem isn't in payments this year, but that the debt of the past year has gone into commercial structures. And that's why I think we need to go down the path of less evil, protect state property and impose a moratorium. The adoption of this law affords such an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u209	The discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm voting on a draft law on security, a draft law on measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning of the fuel-energy complex, registration number 5476, on the adoption of it as a basis in the first reading. [[14:11:27]] For 221 The decision is not taken. What are the motives? What are the motives? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill "On Ensuring the Permanent Operation of Electricity Subjects", registration number 5457. [[14:12:13]] For 216 Pinzenic microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u210	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, stop this game that is now going on in the hall. Dear colleagues, notice, there are four laws with the same name, which are hardly different from each other. There is love for specific oligarchic interests. It's time to stop this self-government. We've failed these laws several times. Why do we go back to lobbying laws?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-29-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, it is the committee's proposal to send Bill 5476 for re-reading. I'd like to make a statement. 5476. [[14:13:23]] For 218. The decision is not taken. A break of 16 hours is announced.
