ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:13]] A total of 440 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the plenary session of November 2. 12 issues of the agenda, 13 bills, were discussed. As a result of their consideration, three laws have been passed in general. These include the Law on Amendments to Article 281 of the Civil Code on the Conservation of Reproductive Health. Five bills were adopted in the first reading. In particular, amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the pre-trial settlement of disputes and a number of laws relating to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The two bills are meant to be redrafted, and the two bills are rejected. Also, as you know, the Central Electoral Commission has been briefed on the previous results of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31st. We also had a conversation with representatives of MPs and factions. Dear colleagues, since we made statements from MPs and factions yesterday, I will now, with your permission, only ask the MPs who came. And then we'll work according to the schedule of meetings. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine Slavita on State support for regional farmers. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the protection of transit passengers and the safety of road traffic within the city of Kiev. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the unwarranted delay of the Kivertsi District State Administration opening of the I-II School with a boarding school built at the expense of the Ukrainian diaspora in the town of Kiverci Volinsk. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the transfer to the autonomous heating of socio-occupational objects in the village of the town type Lake Zitomir region. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the Prime Minister on the illegal subordination of leased objects in Sevastopol by the Russian commander of the Black Sea fleet and the illegal stay of all navigational security in the hands of the command of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. Omelana PARUBKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of financing out-of-school institutions and educational complexes of “school – kindergarten” from district budgets. Vassila NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for the support of rural enterprises in the Luhansk region. Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds from the State budget for the gasification of the village of Mehedevka in the Cherkas region. Dmitri SANDLER to the Prime Minister, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Violation of Antimonopoly Legislation, an open-ended stockholder society called Pritappacieblanergo. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence, on the situation that took place in the village of Novogoddanovka in the Melitopol region of Zaporozhi region after the bombings at the military warehouses. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the delay in resolving the question of the visit of the Ukrainian National MP to the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in the Republic of Iraq to familiarize ourselves with the conditions for the service of our military personnel. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, concerning the creation of the right conditions for the production and implementation of agricultural products by agricultural producers. Sergey SLABENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klav regarding the appeal of Volin County Council deputies for the cancellation of fines to municipal companies in the Volin region. MIKOLI RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Transport and Liaison concerning violations of the rights of residents of the Kozelet region of the Chernigiv region to payment services. Aleksandra MOROZA to the Attorney General on the violation of effective legislation in the looting of land in the territory of the Kozina Rural Council of the Obukhiv district and the pressure on the newly elected head of the village council by representatives of the authorities and forces. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General for delaying the investigation of the crime against a citizen of Minka by law enforcement authorities in the city of Mirgorod Poltav. Andrew SCHOOL to the Attorney General on the illegal detention of the public association activist Victor Shadey. MICHELLA’S office to the Attorney General on the violation of inheritance rights. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General regarding the verification of compliance by officials of the Chernigiv District Council when it comes to the purchase of a car at the expense of the State. Mikhail POLANČIČECH to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko on the signs of the criminal nature of the private enterprise Mercury-Invest in the calculation of the non-delivery of mineral fertilizers to the private agribusiness “Fortun” in the region of Ternopil. OROBJA’S Jury to the Attorney - General for misappropriation of officials of the law enforcement agencies of the Obolon district of Kiev. Aleksandra MOROZA to the Attorney General for the unobjective investigation by the employees of the internal affairs authorities and the procurator of the Cherkas region of the circumstances surrounding the death of a citizen of Sidorov. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General on the investigation of the circumstances of the sanctions process concerning the Open Shareholder Society “Lvivsilmash. ” Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General for the inappropriate response to the repeated appeals of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization on the need to use the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the protection of the rights and interests of the State and citizens in the courts for violations of the rule of law when privatizing the open shareholders' association “Croat-Croat Mining and Metallurgical Combined “Croats”. MICHELLA TOMMEN to the Attorney General on the legality of adoption by the City Council of Kiev of a decision on the allocation of land for health and recreational purposes to the national deputies of Ukraine and other officials of the public authorities. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Kiev City Head for the lifting of the wrongful decision of the Kyiv City Council of October 21, 2004 on the administration of the Lands of the State-wide Desert Guide for the benefit of natural persons from the national deputies of Ukraine and senior officials of the public authorities. Victor TARAN to the Attorney-General for the offence of detecting the unaccounted 84,000 829 ballots in the election of the President of Ukraine. [[TERRITO]] Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on violations in the payment of salaries to employees of the agro-industrial complex in the region of Alexandria. Gennady WOODS to the Minister of Interior for refusing permanent residence permits in Ukraine for long - term residents of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam living and working in Odessa and Odessa. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE HEALTH MINISTRY on the release of ambulances to the territorial medical units of a number of areas in the Gitomir region. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Transport and Communications regarding the restoration of the radio network in the mountainous areas of Johno-Frankiv region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the negligence and inaction of officials of certain branches of the Ministry in the pre-trial investigation of a criminal case violated by the fact that the funds of the All-U.S. Public Organization were being stolen from the Union of Chernobyl. Ms Shevchuk and Oleg ZARUBINSKA to the minister of foreign affairs for the initiative to introduce dual citizenship in Ukraine. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the abuse of office as deputy to the head of the Malovsky Reich administration of the Kirovograd region. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the legality of the activities of the Bilocerkov City Department of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, detaining the Director of the Society with limited responsibility, “Rosic Plus”. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Head of the Pension Fund’s Government, on the protection of the constitutional right to disability and to a veteran of work. Mikhail POLENCHIĆI to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in overcoming local authorities’ obstacles to the granting of the status of airlifter on Chernobyl’s AES to residents of the city of Curtkova. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on Joseph Cobzon’s dual citizenship. Sergey SLABENKA to the Head of the State Tax Administration on the use of debt relief measures for employees of the Open Shareholders Association of Novovolinsk Volinsk Region. Alexander COURNOVOLEN to the Head of the Herson District State Administration regarding the non-derogation of the function of the restoration centre of the “Resurrection” personality. Group of People’s Deputies to the Head of the Odiopol District State Administration, Head of the Odessa City Council for information on the activities of the Odessa market “Southern”. [[BAGRAE, NADRA, HAMELIC]] Gennady RUDENKA to the Head of the Poltava District Administration for the allocation of funds from the state budget for the payment of benefits, subsidies and compensation to the inhabitants of Mirgorod Poltavsk district. SERGEANT to the Kiev City Head for the inaction of the deputy head of Kyrian’s city administration to guarantee the safe passage of the Chinese at the intersection of Vladimir and Saxegan Streets. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Head, Prosecutor of Odessa District on the solution of the socio-economic problem of the disposal of solid household waste in Odessa and the cessation of the purposeless use of budget funds and the abuse of the position of individual officials of the Odessa City Council. Victor TARAN to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on mass subscriptions to the election of the President of Ukraine on the fact that 84,000 829 ballots were spent. [[TERRITO]] The National Deputy of the will to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of the Interior, the Head of the Security Service for Organised Persecution of Student Observers from the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Yushchenka, with the involvement of lecturers, police officers and criminal elements. Dear National Deputies! All requests received have been made. A total of 46 parliamentary inquiries came. The factions. Our Ukraine - 13, Communist faction - 7, SDPU - 3, Labour Ukraine - 1, National Agrarian Party - 5, Block Timoshenko - 9, Union - 2, only Ukraine - 2, Center - 2, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 1, Deminiciatives - People's Government - 1. Out of procedure, please sign in for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who are enrolled in procedural matters. Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u3	Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u4	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We are all concerned about what was said on the Conciliation Council about the fact that a large part of the electorate did not have the opportunity to exercise his right to vote, and that the second one, through strong talents, did not once. In this connection, draft Law 6269 was prepared, and he attended today’s Committee on Local Self - Rule, supported by the Committee. There is a request after the budget to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda and voting. In addition, another Act 6296 was passed, under which Ukrainian citizens are exempt from the payment of government duties on court charges related to their absence from electoral lists. It's a simple technical law, and we propose that we vote after the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u5	Gennady Samofalov, if you please, the faction of Ukraine. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Valeria Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u7	Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask the Supreme Council's apparatus, from the first question of our morning session, to distribute materials for consideration of the draft State Budget Act in the form of the conclusions of the budgetary committee. I can't agree with the wording that he's been working on this document now, nothing happened during this time, I want to assure the people's deputies, and yesterday at the meeting, I presided over a meeting of the budgetary committee, unfortunately there was no quorum, there was a missing committee head. And I've made this statement with the members of the Committee, and I'd like to announce it before we consider the issue and determine how appropriate the budget is now in this room, if it's not ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u9	Yes. Yuri Solomatin, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u10	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, please. The Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, it seems to me that we should go day by day and do the tasks that the Conciliating Council has set before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I have a personal question: among the House of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is a person freely exposed in a red tie with a reddish name, which, according to the press report, is a citizen of Israel, please tell me whether he responds to the press and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of reality, and if so, on what basis does the representative of the "Our Ukraine" Block of Victor Yashchenka now appear in the Hall under such conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u11	Dear national MPs, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u12	Here's the paperwork I got yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, we are the Supreme, honourable colleagues. Please calm down. We have exchanged procedural issues. First, don't insist, please turn on the microphone. The name was Red. Just tolerate it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u14	I'm going to say this to a man without a red tie: yesterday I was declared a hunger strike, in the Civil Society Commission I got a letter, where there was a reference on the IMF data that the Ministry of Internal Affairs gave data from dual citizenship, and then I was at the Ministry of State, and I got two papers from October 4 and 21. Both papers say that there is no evidence from the dual citizenship of the national MP and the citizen of Redcoat Eugene, and there can be no evidence. I'll take all these papers to the commission and to Mr. Buzz's speaking head to the court. All of it. That's a dot. I was, I am, and I'm going to be a citizen of Ukraine. I was a Ukrainian Jew, and I am proud of it. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u15	Honorable National MPs, regarding their proposals, would like to see the attention given by Victor Pinzenic regarding Bills 6269, 6296. If the committee had considered it, I would have asked the secretariat, if there were any documents, to distribute them to the people's deputies after considering the budget. Let the Supreme Council decide on the inclusion in the order of the day of this matter in your judgment. Is there no objection? None. The proposals that have been made, Valery Konovaluka. I think that in the process of dealing with this issue there will be an opportunity to express the position of part or all of us, to make a statement. [[Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, ……]] I think that's how you should agree on a committee when you all get together there so that you can make an appropriate decision that meets the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Regarding the comments made by Yuri Solomatin, the answer came directly from Eugene Czervonenko. So I ask the secretariat, when the papers are ready, to reproduce them so that MPs can get to know each other and make decisions for themselves. It's being announced. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are now moving on to a difficult issue, this is the draft of the 2005 National Budget Act of Ukraine, and I would like to ask that we may now exchange our thoughts for five minutes, as we have done on this issue, because we have violated both the Budget Code and the flow of normal consideration of this issue. Please write down five minutes to exchange your thoughts on the subject of the 2005 draft State Budget Act. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Kenzior, please, the faction of our Ukraine. The Bastrian John will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u16	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if he's in the daytime, of course, this is a question we need to consider. But in hindrance to this situation during the electoral process, I don't think there's going to be a proper professional consideration of this issue in the session room. Because the budget today is part of the election campaign. First of all, candidate Yanukovic. On occasion, I would like to share with you such disturbing information. On the day before, the day before, and on the day of the election of the first tour of the President of Ukraine in Lviv, the minister of transportation of Kirp was constantly present. He provided echelons free of charge to deliver guests from the East to Lviv. And yesterday a million copies were found in Lviv's railway premises.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u17	John Bastrig, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u18	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass on the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u19	Valery Konovaluk, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, two minutes, please. Since my colleague Poljszczuk is also a writer, I would like to unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u21	Please, two minutes instead of Polishchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, we really think that the consideration of the State Budget is a very serious matter. And fortunately, the economy is now demonstrating in Ukraine that it is able not only to ensure constant growth but also to increase the social orientation of the State budget. Unfortunately, we can say that during this time, because of the presidential race, we did not have the opportunity by the committee to really work on this project all the time and to provide national deputies with the conclusions of a committee that would really allow us to vote and consider this issue in the first reading. So we think that this is a question like the State Budget, which not only depends on the state of socio-economic development in the country that we're planning next year, but also on the lives of ordinary Ukrainians, I think it's really a question that should be addressed without politicization, without such bias. And I think that the budget committee will be able to do what is governed by the budget code and prepare conclusions and not waste our time on empty conversations, and I think that would be nice in terms of both the Supreme Council and in terms of not turning it into agitation and prejudice at the address of President Januković, the head of government. I think, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is a very smart proposition, and I want you to join this, too, and how the Head of the Supreme Council has actually been able to assess the situation from the point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u23	Thank you. Mironenko Victor, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u24	Respectable compatriots, the State Budget project is not a budget for real, substantial economic development and does not provide social programmes. Therefore, the Communist faction cannot vote in favour of such a State budget that does not satisfy the interests of the people. But I also wanted to say about the draft decree of the Supreme Council signed by Yushchenko, Pinzenik, Poshenko. The polls at the last budget meeting promised that the proposals of the communists would be included in the proposals to be made to the Government. However, I believe there is nothing in the ruling, including very important for the population, the entire population of Ukraine and in particular my district, the proposals that I have made, Mironenko Victor Andreevich, and the promise has been made. Why was that promise not fulfilled? I'd like to hear from Yushchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u25	Yes, Mikola Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know that the Supreme Council has not endorsed the conclusion of the budget committee, and the national deputies have had very many proposals and comments to this draft budget. At the same time, the budget committee had never met, discussed, or considered our proposals. So under these circumstances, I think that until the proposals of the people's deputies are discussed and taken into account, there is no point in considering this budget today. That's why I'm proposing and supporting Valery Konovaluk, and I'm not going to look at this document today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u27	Yes, Michael Gladys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The budget is a very difficult, responsible thing that's always been and is. And to football this question from the government to the Supreme Council and vice versa, I don't think it suits anyone. For example, I'm making a proposal: since we broke the budget resolution at first glance, now fix the situation, send the government to redesign the budget, and then look at it in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u29	Yes, Eugene Kirilchuk, please block Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, militia of the Yulia Tymoshenko block, the "Fatherland" party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're right when. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you were right when you said we were violating the rules of procedure. We're not looking at the budget today, we're just looking at the conclusions of the budget committee. And if someone has not gone to a budget committee meeting in connection with the President’s pre-election campaign, let him take over. But in order not to stop this process, we must accept the conclusions today. Let the government accept them, not accept them, his right. And all of this goes to the government to get him back to the Supreme Council in December, and we've had a final look at him here and we've accepted him since the President's election. And now it has to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Now, taking into account the suggestions made, time is running out. Shufrich's procedure, please. Microphone. Prepare the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The question of the State budget for the following year is certainly of great importance. But we have to look the people of Ukraine in the eye today and say that we have done more together than the immediate problems of today. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, formally, the Budget Committee, after the vote on the budget for the previous meeting, has not taken any decision on the 2005 budget. And formally today we can't deal with this issue. And it's perfectly logical and understandable to suggest that we move the issue. The future of elections is clear, and we can approach this issue with no emotion, both in the committee and in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Well, three minutes out of the procedure. Please sign up. I was on the list. Time's up. Please log in now, if you are still insisting on the procedure. Three minutes, sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the procedure. Bogdan Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The fact is, once again, the government of Yanukovic does not provide the amount that would correspond to the increase in pensions for pensioners. These allowances, the one-time allowances that are added to retirees just before the elections, are directed at bribery of part of the votes of pensioners. They need to know that Yanukovich’s government did not foresee a significant amount for the next year to increase these allowances. And that's exactly what we all need to do to make sure that these costs are budgeted. But surely the next government, not the government of Yanukovic, will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u35	Yes, please, Bastriga.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! I ask you to pass the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u37	Konovaluku? Konovaluku, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We've really felt the position of the majority of the factions, and we're interested in considering the state budget, but we're going to insist again, please, on the conclusions of the budget committee. I want to answer Eugen Ivanovich Kirilczuk separately. We met yesterday at the Committee on Budgets, but unfortunately you weren't there, like there were no committee heads. We planned to work until the morning to consider all the proposals made by the deputies, but there was no meeting because there was no quorum. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have addressed to you our message that we ask for a recess to announce to the Supreme Council that we should hold a consultation and really not waste our time and consider issues that are really important and that are in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u39	Yes, please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u40	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It seems that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are no consensus councils, group representatives and factions do not express their positions and this agreed position does not take place on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today is the day’s day’s issue. If it is introduced, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think it should be considered in accordance with the Rules. And the position of the Communist faction on the content of the budget itself has been repeatedly determined. No matter who's in charge of the government or who's president of Ukraine, the government of capitalist ministers will be one or the other, and the budget of capitalist ministers and the President, chosen by the bourgeois part of our society, will never protect the disadvantaged people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! We exchanged thoughts. Now it's about a 30-minute recess application. I personally want to say to Valery Konovaluk that in the process of considering the question of recess, you can't advertise. You know that. So let's define this question, then you're going to insist, we're going to call it a break. Regarding the conclusions of the Budget Committee. The last time we looked at this document, the conclusions were, they were handed over to the National Deputies. I'd just like to ask that both the committee head and the first deputy understand both in their own household and get to a common denominator. If you can't get to the common denominator, let the Supreme Council perform as an arbitrator in this respect. If the budget committee has not considered a bill during a specified period, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be determined in accordance with the Rules on its fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u42	I'm asking no expressions. We continue our consideration of the draft State Budget Act 2005. [[Registration number 6000]] Please, what is the position of the committee, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that on October 20th of this year, we did not approve of the proposals of the National Deputies, Committees, factions and Supreme Council groups that came into the project. [[Valérie Illich, I would ask you not to disturb me. You, thank God, are playing your part on the committee.]] . We did not approve of the proposals made by the people’s deputies, committees, factions, and groups that came into the 2005 budget. At the same time, I would like to inform all colleagues that the Budget Code directly prohibits us from taking up any proposals that have come to the budget committee since October 1st. We made it clear that those proposals that were not included in the comparative table that was given to you on October 20, and your proposals, Mr. Mironenko, and your proposals, and Catherine Timothy Vaschuk's proposals, have entered this comparative table in detail. I'm underlining that, and yours, ma'am. We can make it clear that today all the decisions that we have been stressing in the session room have been made. I'm reminding you that the proposals of Yavorowski, the offer of the Ripper, are in a comparative table that is being submitted to your court today. Out of the procedure, honourable colleagues, the Budget Committee at its meeting on 18 and 19 October decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that all the proposals made to the Budget Committee be approved by 1 October and submitted to the Government for further work. In fact, by its decision, the Supreme Council allowed us, along with the government, to make these proposals. During this time several positive things have occurred, and there is certainly one positive thing. I can testify that since October 20th, our prime minister has not promised anything more. This figure of 55 billion empty promises is not increased, which is a positive one, along with
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u44	According to the budget, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u45	At the same time, there is a negative because we had to work out the budget project with the Government and get explanations from the Government, where the source of funding for the issuance of pensions, the issuance of wage increases, the granting of subsidies to veterans, the provision of car supplies, the implementation of military reform and other directions contained in the Prime Minister's pre-election programme. I emphasize no response from the government at 10.40 on November 3rd. Therefore, in fact, we can now conclude that the government that is headed by Prime Minister Janukovic has failed to carry out the task set by the Supreme Council in the vote on 20 October. The processing process did not take place. The secretariat of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to stress once again, that I have fully included all the proposals made by the national deputies, which were clarified by October 1. I would like to give an explanation to Mr. Karnauhu, who unfortunately I emphasize is not working on the budget committee, because his principle position would be very useful, because all the procedural formalities that we need to make a decision today are fully respected. I would like to point out once again that if the position that Valérie Konovaluk has expressed is the position of the government, then the government has to send a letter to the budget committee that he is withdrawing the budget for the work, to take into account these empty promises made by the Prime Minister. It's not done. At the same time, he's really right that this budget is accurate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u47	This budget will not exactly be implemented by the government of Yanukovic, because Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic will definitely not be Prime Minister after October 21st. Therefore, it is, indeed, totally inappropriate to approve or accept this budget. At the same time, you will be offered a number of solutions by respected colleagues. The first decision. We really do stand by the budget code and do not stop the budget process. It is therefore proposed that we now vote in favour of the first reading of the proposals of the national MPs, not the approval of the budget, taking into account all the proposals made by the communists, send it to the government for further elaboration and preparation for the second reading. If that does not happen, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are procedurally several other proposals that I would like to highlight in the summary of the voting on the draft budget, the adoption of the re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u48	Thank you. Have a seat, Peter Alexiovich. Now, one minute. Honorable national MPs, since they are part of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to hear from Valérie Konovaluk. Please. And then I ask that from the Ministry of Finance, the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I am really pleased that in this room we feel that the desire of MPs to act exclusively within the limits of the law and the Rules is now overwhelming. I'm not from the government, I'm from that part of the deputies who met at the Budget Committee yesterday. And we've considered this statement, which was distributed to the people's deputies at the time of registration. 12 signatures. I want to read it. This year’s election race has already had a negative impact on this important issue, such as Ukraine’s State Budget, which has led to excessive politicization. On October 20 of this year, the first reading of the Supreme Council presented, not the Committee on Budget Issues, but a comparative table, which included some two thousand amendments made by the people’s deputies, which are often mutually exclusive and disrupting the structure of the document. At the meeting of the Supreme Council on October 20, a violation of the Budget Code took place during the consideration of the State Budget project. Because the codex does not provide for re-reading. At the same time, this meeting did not discuss the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets, where we and the government would work on every proposal made by the people's deputies. In line with the situation that has arisen, members of the Committee on Budgetary Questions consider it necessary to stress that the budget for 2005 should be adopted already this year, but after the election of the President of Ukraine. In view of this only faithful decision, it may be to move the draft budget to the beginning of December, when the electoral pace will no longer interfere with the effective and professional work of the Budget Committee. 12 signatures of members of the Budget Committee from 14 present yesterday at the meeting. I would like to emphasize once again, honourable national MPs, the question is very, very, very responsible. We can't create conditions for that. There is now a violation of the law and there is an agitation that has only one purpose. And I want to pay attention to that draft regulation -- three authors of the draft regulation are included with the head of the budget committee. The first author, when he led the government for a year and a half, could have made it happen. But he didn't. I increased my minimum pension by five dollars, a minimum wage of 20 dollars. The second author of the decree, who worked for six years in the government on economic reform, did everything he could to make our population even poorer. The third author of the decree states that our people of Ukraine now have low incomes and low living standards. I want to offer to pay taxes to this person in the way that every citizen pays and we have income that is twice as high as the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u50	Yes, Merkowski, please. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Now. Calm down. Come forward, then say your position, calm down. I've already announced Merkovsky. I would ask everyone not to politicize this problem, my dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The budget code, including articles 40 and 41, clearly defined rules for the first reading of the draft State Budget Act. It sets out that they must be prepared by the Committee on Budget Questions rather than by others the conclusions and proposals for the draft Law. These conclusions, the proposals should be considered by the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council should decide on these conclusions and proposals. When the Supreme Council adopts the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which are to be previously approved by the Committee on Budget Affairs, it will mean the adoption of the budget in the first reading. Unfortunately, neither on October 20th nor today has there been a document called "The Bills and Proposals of the Budget Committee", i.e. there is no subject for consideration by the Supreme Council. The other one. The same articles of the budget code state that the conclusions, proposals of the budget committee should be balanced. I'll give you just one example: on the second page of the proposal of the people's deputies that are generalized in this table are the amendments under 4, 5 and 6. This refers to the government deficit and deficit ratio. So Amendment 4 and 5 defines the proposal to define the government budget deficit, but Amendment 6 is, by the way, prepared by the heads of the budget committee, defines the budget with a surplus. So how do we work on the second reading, whether it's in deficit or in surplus? Finally, after 20.10, unfortunately, the Budget Committee did not hold any meetings that would allow and accept. the government in these meetings, and prepare budgetary conclusions for the first reading. Thus, the government's proposal is that budgetary conclusions be drawn up and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council in accordance with the requirements of the budget code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u52	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, let's exchange our thoughts for a moment. Five minutes, sign up, then there'll be three proposals, I'll make it so you can vote for them. Five minutes, please log in. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u54	Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u55	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! We are witnessing an unprecedented case in the history of Ukraine when the government is blocking the adoption of the budget next year. We have not seen the government in either the previous meeting or today: neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Finance have there ever been such a thing. The Budget Committee is working alone, preparing and processing many conclusions. And today we see what's happening. Today, in fact, the budget is used in the interests of the candidate. He is not concerned about what he will do to the citizens next year. The proposals that the budget committee has been working on are the basis for further work on the budget. We insist that the budget be reviewed and that you decide on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u56	Thank you, Gorlov, for him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u57	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to the Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u58	Please, the Masterpiece microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I agree that there is some violation of the Budget Code regarding the sustainability of the state budget approval procedure. But let's remember what's going on on the street today: today is the election of the President of Ukraine. Accordingly, this is a certain, let's say, political crisis. I hope that the Supreme Council, especially with regard to the small constitution -- the State Budget -- will not apply to this extent. I would ask you all to consider this question and to postpone the adoption of the budget after the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u60	Zybenko. Follow him, Wojs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u61	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell you a situation that happened in the hall, how in that saying, "You're going to have a hard time, and the men's teeth are going to crack." It's me before it's a rare case where one push of a button has two consequences. On the one hand, it is the approval of the conclusions of the Budget Committee, which are of a recommendation to the government. And I have no doubt where our proposals and the conclusions of the Budget Committee will be after they are considered. And on the other hand, this vote means another result: acceptance in the first reading of the completely imperfect document that we have been given. And three thousand amendments to the Ukrainian people's deputies to it -- that's exactly what I see in the quality of this document. The Communist faction will not support, in this case vote in favour of that document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u62	Please, Vojš. After him, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, it is clear today that the process of reviewing the 2005 State budget has become a political action. We are initially the position of our faction, the Social Democratic Party and the faction of the other coalition that formed the Government was to consider the budget within the time frame provided for in the budget code and in accordance with the procedure. [[United]] However, the situation has become completely political and has led us both to the Supreme Council in the conference room, and in the budget committee we are considering the issue not from a professional position, not from the point of view that our economy and our people today are needed, but only from the point of view of who has given their candidate to the Presidents. Therefore, we are absolutely sure that we are willing to move.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u64	Alexander Baranowski, please. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u65	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I'd like us to really move away from politics, but the point is that some of the people's MPs' proposals increase their income by 10 billion, the other deputy reduces their income by 10 billion. I'm asking, who took these proposals into account, how are they accounted for? Absolutely not. They simply cannot be accounted for in the way they are now. I promised the pension government. There's no money left. the collapse of the national currency today. Look how the dollar went up. The very raising of the dollar has now completely balanced Ukraine’s budget, which was proposed by the government. So please tell me if you can accept it. The first reading tells us that we approve of the budget proposed by the government and will continue to improve. There's nothing to approve of. So the faction of socialists won't vote, we urge other MPs not to do that, because it's just a crime. We're going to vote without really knowing why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u66	Yes, dear fellows, we've exchanged thoughts, and now let me make proposals and put them to the vote in turn. Regarding the accusations here of mutuals, I think each party has a basis for conclusions. From the procedure, please, one minute and head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u67	Dear National MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have witnessed brutal misinformation. I don't think there was any particular opinion that sounded like a budget committee meeting, and I'm stressing that there wasn't a budget committee. The conclusions of the Committee on Budgets, which may contain proposals by the National Deputies and not just a single text, were approved at the October 19th Committee. I would like to point out that there was no single point at the time. Today, signatures have attempted to collect 12 signatures of national deputies, which make up less than a third of the members of the budget committee. And today, with brutal lies, one of the representatives was speaking, and I deliberately don't call his last name, so that I don't take the word for a replica. At the same time, I stress that no politics takes place on the budget committee. There is concern about the reality of the financing of the budget, so thousands of millions of people are behind it. So do we.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u68	Thank you. Calm down. Everything, please, has not been mentioned. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no need to explain. On the committee, give an explanation. Calm down. You've done it twice. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Several suggestions were made. Indeed, according to the Codex Budget, we were to adopt October 20, the first reading, approving the committee’s conclusions. The document was prepared and distributed for the first time when we considered it. The document that has just been quoted is simply a legislative initiative. It's not an official document, it's a legislative initiative. Here was a 20-number document, it had to be either on the committee or in the session room and see this document. Dear colleagues! There was an accusation that there was no rereading of the budget code. What could be done if the required number of votes were not chosen? So now I'm making three proposals. First offer. May I have your attention, please? Vote for amendments and send this document to the government. Second offer. Return the government to work with the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made. And the third proposal made by Valérie Konovaluk is to return to the budget committee and consider the 2005 budget after the presidential election. That is, to make a political decision. There are three of those proposals, so I'll bet. May I have your attention, please? First, on the approval of the amendments tabled by the people's deputies of Ukraine and the referral of the document to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:59:42]] For 180. The decision is not made by the factions, please. So "our Ukraine" - 99, Ukrainian regions - 0 Communists - 0 SDPU (oh), Labour Ukraine - zero. The People's Agrarian - 18, the SPI - 20, the Block of Timoshenko - 19, the Union - 0, the only Ukraine - 0, the Centre -13, the NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 0, the democratic initiatives - 0, the non-fractional - 11. Now for the second sentence: please note, return the draft budget for 2005 to the Cabinet of Ministers to work on it, taking into account the proposals, the comments made by the National Deputies and the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's set a date, that is, 30 November. Is it gonna be okay? I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. Please vote. [[11:00:49]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I realized that I did not make the exact wording. "Our Ukraine" -98; "Regions of Ukraine" -0; Communists -0; SDPU -0; "Urban Ukraine" -0; National Agrarian Party -18; SPI -16; Block Timoshenko -18; "Union" -0; "Only Ukraine" -0; "Centre -12; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -0; "Democratic Initiatives" -0; non-fractional -11. I'm clarifying the proposal, I'm asking for the attention that I've been making here, and I'm not making it to some degree. Return the budget to the Cabinet of Ministers for its work and submission to the Supreme Council on November 30. Please vote. [[11:01:59]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -99; "Regions of Ukraine" -1; Communists -58; SDPU(o), "Trudova Ukraine" -0; National Agrarian Party -17; SPI -20; Block Timoshenko -19; "Union" -0; "Only Ukraine" -1; "Centre" -2; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -0; "Democratic Initiatives" -0; non-fractional -13. Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians, registration number 6036, is being announced for consideration. [[on State guarantees]] I want to ask you, are there any more insisting on the break? Dear faction colleagues insist on a break? A break of 30 minutes to 11 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions of the "Regions of Ukraine", Democratic Initiatives, a 30-minute recess was announced. Please, who will give the reasons for the interruption? Conovaluk Valérie Illich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We really haven't considered a very simple question. And I think the Supreme Council, when it comes to making decisions, has some flaws, because the government can take its own initiative in further considering the State budget and preparing for the consideration of the Supreme Council. We think that this position makes it impossible for people's deputies who could really be supported not only by the Committee on Budgets but also by the Ministry of Finance and should be decisive for the government to finalize this document. Once again, we have witnessed that certain political powers have failed to use this to influence the State budget in terms of political innuendo and pre-election campaigns. I think it's important for us that the State budget solves not only the issues and interests of individual politicians but also the common challenges. And I think that this position was more constructive if we were to rely on the law in force and the budget code and the rules in force. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to quote the position of the article of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council 3.4. 11. During the discussion of any matter, but before the beginning of the speeches, for reasons of vote, the MP may make a reasoned motion for a recess in the sitting, a postponement of the consideration of the agenda or the adjournment of the sitting. During the discussion, we expressed the faction’s position. It was really in favor of the decision to move the matter forward. And I'd like to ask you not to use the Rules' position selectively for individual factions, individual deputies. We have to work constructively and effectively. This is the primary task of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! I would like to ask the National MP not to read the Rules selectively as well, and I would like to stress to the National MP that three proposals have been made in the order of arrival. The first suggestion was to endorse the conclusions of the budget committee, which would mean that the Supreme Council had adopted the budget in the first reading and sent it to the Supreme Council, to the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm sorry. The second proposal was to return to the Cabinet of Ministers to work with the Committee on Budgets and jointly introduce a more precise version of Ukraine's 2005 budget after the President's campaign, and we talked about November 30. And the third, I said, is a proposal by a group of national MPs, and it allowed us to speak twice on this issue, to return to the budget committee, that is, to lie dead, no one would work on it, and then start over. Since the first proposal was not accepted, the second proposal was put to the vote, and then the third proposal was dropped. All according to the Rules. Yes, dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreign Ukrainians is under review. [[on State guarantees]] The reporter is Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations of Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft law is designed to implement the final provisions of the Law on the Status of Ukrainians. It provides for amendments to the three laws of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the law that took effect this year. In particular, it is a matter of amending the Publishing Act, which also provides for the definition that one of the other tasks of publishing is to assist foreign Ukrainians in the provision of domestic printed publications. This is also the case with the Information Act, which provides for a change to determine that one of the tasks of information policy is also to help meet the information needs of foreign Ukrainians, and this is also the case with the Immigration Act, since it is envisaged to allow outside the quota established annually for foreign Ukrainians, as well as members of their families and minors to emigrate to Ukraine beyond the quotas set. The adoption of this law will ensure the implementation of the State guarantees provided for by the Law on the Status of a Foreigner in the information and publishing sector will create the right conditions for entry and stay in Ukraine outside the emigration quota for Ukrainians, a foreign couple and their children. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u73	Yes, thank you. It's a reduced procedure. Have a seat, please. From the committee, once again, the issue is being addressed by a reduced procedure. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Before the Minister of Justice said, I would like to add that we are amending the three bills relating to the law on the right status of Ukrainians. The Publishing Law, article 3 of this Publishing Law, refers to the purpose of the publishing work. This is the satisfaction of a person of society, a state in publishing, the right to freedom of thought and speech, the free expression of his views and beliefs. These and other provisions of this article are presented in a simple way: to help foreign Ukrainians secure their printed publications. The second law is a law on information that determines that the main orientations of public information policy are to ensure citizens' access to information. It is proposed to add the following: "Encouraging the information needs of Ukrainians abroad." And the third law is the Immigration Act, which is proposed to allow immigration outside the immigration quota established by that law. In particular, this is provided to foreigners — husbands, wives, their minor children — in the event of their joint entry and residence in Ukraine. This is very important, but unfortunately no one is returning to Ukraine today, but they have left Ukraine, and we do not know for ourselves how many millions. I'd like to support this bill. The Science and Experimental Authority supports the bill. The committee decided by consensus at its meeting: to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u75	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Guess who signed up for the first time. No, it's Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. And then there's Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Yavorowski and Jovkovsky. This is the district that gave the most votes in Ukraine for Victor Yushchenka: 98 percent. And I, Vladimir Yavorowski, participate in the night fights, a participant in the defense of the results of the national will from power in the city of Kyrovograd. Society, you and I have had the courage, our Parliament, I think, to take a very good step when we passed the Law on a Foreign Ukrainian. I still can't believe this bill is already completely real. And this is the first step to meet those people who were not forced to do so voluntarily, I emphasize, not voluntarily leave our land. One emigration was usually labour, then political emigration. Both -- once again, I want to remind you -- have left Ukraine unwittingly. Today, of course, under today's authority, we have again purely economic, social, if you want, emigration. These amendments that have been made here today by the Minister of Justice, they are very important and in fact they do not give rise to any objection, because the moment where we offer the Ukrainians from abroad their information security is very normal. Although, on the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that this bill is very narrow and I will be aspiring against accepting it immediately and as a law, because it needs another reading and it needs to be added to it, and I will definitely do so during the second reading. I would also like to remind people who are now listening to us that we are adopting this bill in a very difficult situation. That's when we folded something a little bit from our table for our compatriots abroad, but it's done at a time when one of the candidates for the pope of Ukraine today is offering dual citizenship, that is, on one hand, we give these people a little bit, and on the other hand, Mr. Janukovic is already offering to send both to Chechnya and all the hot spots that just exist. That is why I would like to stress this once again, and I would like to propose not to accept it as a bill immediately, but to accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u77	Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Carmazine. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Next is Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u78	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Is this law necessary? It's obviously necessary. What's the cut, even though this is the whole question of clarifying three positions? How should it be accepted? There are changes to the Information, Publishing and Immigration Act. Obviously, it should be written that not only foreign Ukrainians contribute to the provision of domestic printed publications, but what should the state not help to have schools with the Ukrainian language in the Russian Federation to be parity so that they do not abuse Ukrainians so as not to call them hollahs? What, though, does not happen in Transnistria, where by 1961 60 percent of them had studied Ukrainian in Transnistria? Today, no school, Poshenko was able to open only a few classes, help in Benders in one of the high schools, everything, nothing else. And in Transnistria, Ukrainian is a national language so that you know, along with Russian and Moldovan. Dear National Deputies! We were offered 420 polling stations to create in Russia. I watched these documents, they were all faked. One letter says that in Moscow, Leningrad, and what is said in the Far East, thousands of these statements are written in one handwriting. 16 U.S.S.A., disgrace. I never thought our diplomats were such shameful forgers and document forgers. They're sending 16 numbers to CBC, 17 to CBC headquarters, and so the documents were missing 17, 18, 19, and 20. Let the Ukrainian people know that then the C.E.C.C.S. stole these documents to ensure that the criminal case is not violated when the Attorney General's Office is correct in this country. So they wanted to open 420,000 plots. Here we have a question about how foreign Ukrainians should feel about Ukrainians. We have to help meet the information needs of Ukrainians abroad, but not the way it was on the day of the vote in Brest, when the consulate went to the Consulate and said, "vote for Yanukovich!" Is that normal? I got a call from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u79	Let's go through the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u80	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm on the bill, so I'm saying that we have a second reading to add here, which is to help schools, but also textbooks, and to put on a state level, so that we don't meet about who to choose as president here, but we decide how to live for Ukrainians abroad Thank you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u81	Yes. Solomonine's handing out the right to speak to Mironka, I see, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u82	5th Electoral District, Mironenko Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, the bill must be adopted to take care of Ukrainians outside Ukraine. But, of course, we have to adopt a good bill, and we have to take into account probably a lot here. I would like to draw the attention of those who sincerely want to take care of Ukrainians abroad to take into account the following: I am a deputy elected to the 5th constituency in 1998 and 2002 as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Chairman of the CIS Subcommittee on Cooperation. In the past assembly, I have heard as well as the crying that schools, schools with Ukrainian education and so on are not being established in Russia. And I'm very sad, and now he's screamed right out of place, the one who was just on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and he probably remembers how I, Russian with Ukrainian roots, raised the question that there might not be too much talk about how someone doesn't work there, but let's just say, let's just, let's do this job ourselves. Why there is not a single person on the Committee on Foreign Affairs who would be imprisoned for this particular work. He proposed his candidature and said, unless my candidature had made any arrangements, please let us confirm any other candidature on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but that this person should travel directly to Russia or to any other country and deal with these problems. For my part, I am convinced that I will be able to benefit. But if you have any doubts, please confirm someone. But, unfortunately, I don't want to call my name right now, because they have families, children who will be ashamed, people who are covered in nationalism, the protection of Ukrainian language, Ukrainians, and those people who are on the committee have done nothing to make this work happen, at least to strengthen a person. They did not express their desire, nor did they do any good to confirm me. Therefore, I ask that we stop politicizing this issue and that we really have to deal with the problems of Ukrainians, Russians and all other people. But really.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u83	Mikhailo Melniczuk, turn on the microphone, the faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u84	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill is indeed aimed at the implementation of state guarantees to ensure the needs of the Ukrainian diaspora in the information and publishing sector and to create mechanisms outside the quota return of Ukrainians and their families to their homeland. To that end, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will certainly support this bill. And I'm asking the deputies who are present today to support this bill. I, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, may repeat what I said yesterday, but today I received a call from the Chernobyl area from Denisivka Automobiles. There are two explosions in two microbuses that transport people to Chernobyl. And for that matter, last night, Vladimir Mikhailovich's assignment was about the secretariat. But I'm concerned about the criminogenic situation in the Chernobyl area today. I'm telling you again, it's a misunderstanding. I've been in Chernobyl for 30 years, and we haven't had a crime scene like this on Bukovin. What's going on, who's in control? May Mr. Bilocon not go to the Central Electoral Commission, guard the members of the CLTC, for no one is standing there, happy God. Let them not exercise their authority. But look what's going on. We have to protect Ukrainian citizens. Killing an entrepreneur, I've already said, in the Boyans of the Novoseltsky region, the assassination of the director of Kalanowski. It's something that's actually being done. And I'm getting calls from Bukovina, please do something to protect me from this. So I think, next to the bill that I proposed that it would be voted in the hall and supported by the faction, I would like to draw attention to the situation that is on the Bukovin today. Thank you for your attention. Please pass the word, I have a few more minutes, a minute of Shibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u85	30 seconds. Quick, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u86	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to point out that we have nothing left to vote for this bill because we have adopted this law before. And that's just a change to the three bills that our Rules need. But if something is to be considered today, it should be borne in mind that there is a commission that determines what quota is needed for today. And this commission should or should only determine whether there is a rule today according to the Cabinet ruling that there is another meeting that defines.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u87	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. Before the vote, for the reasons of the vote, please. That's enough, dear fellows. You can't use everything at once. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, there are no limits to improving the bill, but the time spent on it is limited. This bill has sound suggestions. Perhaps not everything my colleagues were talking about today. But let's take these proposals perfectly right -- changes to three laws. This is about the migration quota, the right to information, the simplified order of return of migrants. These are just the pressing issues that need to be addressed. Other issues we can decide then, make changes, supplementation, proposals, but at the time of adoption of this law, and I suggest that it be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u89	Peter Petrovich Toloczko, then Stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The "One Ukraine" faction reviewed this bill. The bill as a whole is beautiful and obviously we have every reason to accept it, but it's obviously in the first reading, because there's a whole series of things that need clarification. We take care of a citizen of another state or a person without citizenship. But we know that for tens of years, there are Ukrainian citizens living abroad who don't break or leave Ukraine. Therefore, they too need to be taken into their care. We also understand that the entire problems and rights of a foreigner are, which we violate every day, which we have violated even in these elections. So these questions also need to be laid down in the law. And the faction supports it, but it thinks it needs to be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Igor Ostasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u92	Igor Ostrash, faction of our Ukraine, Ostrich constituency. Dear colleagues, as the author of this law, I would still like to know how this law is actually being implemented right now, because it has been decided by this law to create a national commission for foreign Ukrainians. I would like to tell you that, unfortunately, the commission has not yet been set up. Many foreign Ukrainians ask me when will a foreigner be able to obtain a certificate? Unfortunately, this process has also not yet begun, and people have already written a lot. So I would ask, if there's any information from Mr. Lavrinovich, there's something I can tell you about the implementation of this law. And to the end. Indeed, this document needs to be adopted in the first reading, because I think there are still many things that need to be added, in particular, to the issue of education for Ukrainians in Ukraine, to higher education and obviously to the education law in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u93	Thank you. The discussion is over. We'll be clear. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreign Ukrainians. [[on State guarantees]] Registration number 6036. Please vote. [[12:02:50]] For-300 Decision taken. The factions? Please. “Our Ukraine” - 99, “Regions of Ukraine” - 58, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 4, “Trudova Ukraine” - 20, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 9, “One Ukraine” - 12, “Centre” - 8, “NDP and PPU - 15, “Deminiciatives” - 6, “Affection - 11. Dear colleagues, there are two moments. One, we must now be in line for our break. Why don't we just go ahead and work on it all over again and finish the discussion before we finish the meeting? That's one thing. And secondly, there is a request for a break on behalf of two factions. I think we can replace it. Are you ready to go now? Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u94	Dear national MPs, dear citizens! Today, the government’s budgetary intentions are quite clear. Let me remind you that next year's budget revenue is going to go up by 28 billion dollars. Of these, only five billion, or 18 percent, are planned by the government to increase wages. This position of government is contrary to the very nature of the budget, which should be of a social nature. The key contradictions of the government document arise. As the economy increases by nearly 10 percent, it reduces the real wages of all budget workers, as the increase in wages by 10 percent and half is lower than consumer prices are expected to increase. For this reason, from the first January of the following year after the elections, the government leaves Ukrainian pensioners with no pension benefits, for only an increase in salaries provides the necessary resources to increase their incomes to the Pension Fund. So the position of the absolute majority of deputies on government budget estimates, negative estimates, was absolutely correct. And that's why MPs have introduced budget adjustments that are qualitatively changing the draft budget. I would like to remind you that these allowances provide for an increase in the minimum wage of up to 300 dollars, an increase of 35 per cent in salaries for budget workers, a full account of the need for supplementary payments to retirees, a minimum wage of 432 dollars, which is 50 dollars more than the government is planning. The fact that the government is blocking the adoption of such a draft budget has one logical explanation. It is important for the government today to keep the citizens awake, so that after the elections, our citizens will be left with no pension payments and no increase in real wages. Victor Yuschenka's block of "Our Ukraine" states that we will not allow the adoption of a budget that brings antisocial surprises to our citizens who have the guidance to serve the interests of certain oligarchic clans.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u95	So let's go to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. There are three bills. Registration numbers 4621.4569, 5059. The government bill will report to the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Drozdov Lydia Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u96	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! A bill amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine with a view to regulating the legislative level of the establishment of a single standard of employment for the employment of persons with disabilities for all enterprises, irrespective of the form of ownership and management, and replacing the indicator of the total number of employees working on the average number of employees working on a regular basis. This is caused by the fact that, first of all, according to the Ukrainian Railway Transport Act, on electricity, on road transport, on postal communications, on telecommunications in 5 fields, a standard of employment is established to ensure the employment of persons with disabilities is different from that defined in article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. The other one. The total number of employees does not correspond to the figures used in the state statistics. The amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine will allow for an increase in the number of working persons with disabilities, ensure legal and economic conditions for all enterprises and comply with the legislation of the countries of the European Union. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and agreed with Minfin, Mineconomy, State Enterprise, and Miniust. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u97	Thank you, Lydia Mikolayevna. Have a seat. Please. Bill number 4569 is reported by national deputy Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich. Get Harry ready for the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u98	Deputies! Although the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine has been a serious step towards improving the level of social protection of persons with disabilities, it remains unregulated or requires some attention to its position and other legal provisions that would further guarantee the constitutional right of persons with disabilities to work. As a result, a proposal is made to amend part two of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, according to which violations of the payment of fines in the case of non-employment of a disabled person entail a pennies and a 120 per cent of the annual account rate of the National Bank of Ukraine for each calendar day of payment, including the day of payment. The introduction of the relevant amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine not only requires additional costs from the Ukrainian State Budget but also potentially increases the availability of funds for the mornings of the social protection funds and deprives businesses and organizations of the possibility of irresponsibly violating this law. Thus, this law is designed to improve the status of disabled people in Ukraine. And I propose to pass this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Bill 5029 will report to Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! The essence of my bill is very simple. You know that we have quotas for the employment of persons with disabilities in Ukrainian enterprises, but unfortunately many of the enterprises do not meet this quota and pay fines. Therefore, there is a proposal to amend article 20 of the Act on the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, by which the amount of the fine of the enterprise that did not provide the normative number of places of employment for persons with disabilities is reduced by the amount of services received and goods received from specialized enterprises where persons with disabilities are employed. Thus, we are socially protecting those with disabilities who work in specialized enterprises, and morally, let us say, facilitating the participation of those enterprises that do not provide for different reasons, even objective reasons, does not provide the quota for the employment of persons with disabilities. I propose that I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u101	Thank you, from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, reports the head of the Committee, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, you and I remember that last year, last year, was declared a European year of people with special needs. We have made a number of positive decisions, and in order to implement these decisions, these three bills have been prepared. The committee has considered them carefully and decided to support them in the first reading, I stress, in the first reading of all three bills, because the bill that initiates the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine language is essentially about the technological moments that are proposed to implement Ukraine's legislation. That's the norm that's used in statistical reporting. The bill is the National Deputy of Kosinova, it's about putting everyone in equal conditions, all businesses, all different sectors of the economy. And by the way, entrepreneurs have very often raised this question, which is that they should all be in equal conditions and equally bear the burden of employing people with disabilities, and the Committee supports it. And for the third a, the author of which is the national deputy Hara, there's an attempt to use politics not only for people with disabilities, but for the sake of the brother-in-law, politics, in a way, to interest entrepreneurs in creating jobs, so the committee is proposing these three bills adopted in the first reading. There are some points that need to be worked out, especially under the third bill, the author of which is deputy Hara, which is already adopted in the first reading of the document, but we're going to put together the rules of this document to work out a better solution, that is to say, by addressing the national deputies of Ukraine, I would like to ask the Committee to support these, all three documents in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u103	Thank you, Fedor Stepanovich, sit down, please. I think we'll support the committee or are we going to discuss it? Let's talk a little bit. Then please, Mironenko does not insist. Is it? Please, Mironenko, follow him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u104	Respectable compatriots. All three bills deserve support. People with disabilities are demanding our care. But I would like to say another disturbing symptom. Some will now think that they are still talking about depriving those enterprises with 50 per cent of the disabled of benefits. I'm in the future, if something like this happens as a legislative initiative, I'm asking you not to. Because people work, they benefit themselves and the country. Otherwise, they will be in a terrible situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u105	Yavorowski. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block, engaged in hostilities, followed by text. My fellow Members, I think that these three bills are a rare case where you can actually take them, there's already a committee head here, you can actually take them and you can literally complement that phrase. Because we really have to take into account the fact that today, with the transition to market relations, that many enterprises are privatized, and the place for a disabled person is actually reduced to zero, the job of a disabled person on these enterprises is reduced to zero. I am convinced that this is definitely what we need in our first reading. And a professional committee that understands all these nuances can lead them to one very good bill that will improve the situation, the Ukrainian situation with the disabled. Because you and I know very well that one of the candidates for the presidency today has already promised so much that I think there's only one reserve left -- to promise the disabled to get their health back literally before the election, before the 21st. I think that this bill must be voted on, and it is worth the attention. And I'll tell you in closing. I am increasingly perplexed by the idea that the result of the first round of elections suggests that Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, indeed, confirmed his right to be governor of the Donetsk and Lugansk region and no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Karmazin, follow him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, all three bills are different from each other. And I wouldn't say in general that in three we all have to vote. I'm going to analyze everyone and tell you my point of view on this. Indeed, there are no indicators such as the total number of workers mentioned today in article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Indicators Used in State Statistics. There is either an account number or an average number of employees in the account. When I was in the Squire district, the sugar workers directly asked questions: Well, why are we required especially for the disabled, when we have different periods, when we have many workers, and when we shorten when we do not produce sugar? So it's right to support the writing suggestions for the average number of accounts instead of the total number as it is now. It will also be right to add part two to article 19, which is excluded only by this law from job regulations, if other laws set standards for the employment of persons with disabilities. Let me remind you what the laws are. This is about rail transport, about electricity, about road transport, and about postal communications. Unfortunately, so far both rail transport and postal connections have been temporarily privatized by one clan group. But I think the leaders in this area will review their views on this. With regard to the Bill of People’s Deputy Kosinov, he deserves support because he has the following benefits: the imposition of a fine of 120 percent of a year accounts for interest, a pennies allowance, will be directed towards strengthening the social protection of persons with disabilities, and will be an effective incentive for all economic operators to comply with the requirements of legislation. With regard to the Bill of People’s Deputies Hara, 5059, I ask you to remember the people’s deputies, I will ask you not to vote in favour of this bill for such reasons: firstly, accepting these proposals, in which an enterprise, in carrying out some activity, is exempt from payment of fines for not offering jobs, is negative. This will not resolve the issue of employment, reduce the incentive factors involved in imposing a fine on the host subject, and reduce the social level of protection of the disabled — that is, reduce the likelihood of obtaining a job. Dear national MPs, disabled people are the least protected people. Let's support the first two laws, the third one collapses, and this is the support of the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u109	Thank you. But there's no such expression as "let's go." Yes, please get Melniczuk and Matviyenko's microphone ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u110	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Volodymira Mihajlovich, the All-Ukrainian Association of Land and Property Owners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has always supported and supported the bill on the social protection of the disabled of Ukraine. Nevertheless, legal terminology will be organized here in the field of job regulations for disabled people. Increasing the working disability. Of course, that is all that needs to be done. It's a category, we're going to say, today, regardless of how everyone tries to help people with disabilities before the elections. Then, after the election, they are forgotten, they need attention from the state. Providing disabled people with everything they need, including transportation. And we've already talked about how people with disabilities are provided with transportation. Once there were queues, once there was proper control of the queues. And man knew what he had, second or third in line, and now he's the first one -- and he's getting transport. But look at what's going on in front of both the President's parliamentary and the President's elections: hundreds of cars are being given away, people who have been in line for decades. What is the fate of these people with disabilities? Dear friends, dear fellow parliamentarians! I'm talking to those on the right-hand side today who give transportation to the disabled: yes, they need transportation, they need to give, but let's talk about it from other sources, not from the queue they claim to be standing on for tens of years of disabled people. As for businesses that are supposed to employ disabled people, I'm talking to business leaders, it's better for them to form a disabled person there, not working, not paying those fines. And that's what happens more than once. Who determines how many disabled people are employed by a business manager? And what about those unemployed who today have more than 30 percent of Ukrainians out of work, seven million have gone abroad because they can't work in the country? That's why I think that people with disabilities need to be given a pension in order for them to be able to, let's say, exist at the expense of the state's pension, not to look for a job, because not everyone with disabilities can work. So I'm going to resound: the faction will support this bill, but we need to get back to the face, to the whole state, to the parliament, to the participation of our people with disabilities, to their lives today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u111	Please, Matthews, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u112	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! We've touched on a really, really painful subject today. To date, we have a number of legislation that deals with persons with disabilities. But I can say with full responsibility that, unfortunately, the disabled remain behind as a result of the consideration of all these issues. And they are indeed surviving under the most difficult conditions today, but none of these bills or proposals solves the enormous problem. What is the problem, and what is happening today? Let's do a simple arithmetic account. For today, we have about 200 million jobs. 4 per cent of the regulations that exist today are about 800,000 jobs we must create for persons with disabilities. 300,000 disabled people are working. It turns out there's 500,000 where we have to pay fines. For each job that is not created, the average annual wage. The average wage for Ukraine is 600 bracelets. You multiply by 12 months, you multiply by the number of uncreated places, we'll get three billion bracelets by two million people with disabilities. They've practically got 120 million in the fund. I'm asking you, where's the money? Or is someone not paying for this fund? So let's figure out why we have some enterprises: energy, railways, they have some prerogatives, they don't pay for it. Why should metalsmiths consider jobs for a steel manufacturer, why should they consider jobs for a miner? What job is this for people with disabilities? Let us not hide ourselves, so to speak, from the idea of fighting for the disabled, at a time when people with disabilities really do not need them. Why, I ask you, is there a situation today: Ilich's combination of marijuana pays 12 million a year for this fund? When we talk to society. And we say, "Give us an organization where the average wage for a disabled person is immediately 1,200 to 1,300. They won't let us. Why? It's no use to who? Disability is beneficial. It's no use to management because that's not where the money's going to go, is it? To date, these structures need to be taken seriously. And if we are truly concerned about the problem of persons with disabilities, if we really care about this subject, let us deal with persons with disabilities. That's the first one. And the second. Then let's call it something else. This is not a job creation option if it is not suitable for a disabled person, but a tax. Let's call it a tax, as it's supposed to be, and then let's pay taxes to everyone, and not to some people, they don't pay. To date, therefore, I do not believe that any of the proposed bills is fundamentally addressing the issue. I passed my bill. I was asked to remove the disabled, and they said, "Let's get on with it." We promised to hold a round table with the Cabinet of Ministers, the UTOG Society, UTOTO, and to bring the round table to the country level and deal with the issue. I've been waiting for this round table for a year. I think it's time for us to figure out what's going on there and make a decision in such a way that it actually comes to people with disabilities, not to their leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u113	For reasons, please, the head of the Committee of Cibenko. Then it's Cherniak. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u114	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the discussion of the documents, since all the suggestions that have been made will necessarily be included in the process of processing the documents in preparation for the second reading. I would like to thank Sergey Anatolyevich Matviyenkov. He works very closely with the committee and offers many very reasonable suggestions. The only thing, Sergey Anatolyovich, you can see is that at least one of these bills is already in the middle of three, if he doesn't decide how you say a fundamental problem, it's a step in the right direction, in the right direction to pay everyone really. I would like us to support these bills when we understand that we are moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u115	Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u116	Nigger, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I also want to support the bill. It makes a good suggestion to direct the cost of fines to those enterprises that do not comply with the 4 percent quota for job creation for disabled persons to specialize in disabled enterprises and to use their services. We have to support it, we have to vote, but we have to realize it's a palate. I support the proposal that everyone should pay first, but secondly, it's a problem of creating new jobs, and we need to push for those who don't do the quota. And we need to find some penal mechanisms that are more effective and make sure that we create new jobs. New jobs were actually created for the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u117	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. Registration number 4621. Please vote. [[12:28:36]] For 288 The draft law was passed. The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities is on the vote. [[Registration number Bill 4569]] The author of the bill is National Deputy Kosinov. Please vote. [[12:29:12]] For 292 Decision taken. And there is another bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection for the People with Disabilities of Ukraine (registration number 5059). The drafter of the bill is a national MP, Hara. Please vote. [[12:29:47]] For 177 The bill was rejected. There is a bill amending article 1241 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 5538. [[on the mandatory inheritance percentage of minors]] National deputy of Ukraine, Olujko Vitaly Mikolayovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u118	I'll brief you. Dear National Deputies! There was a terminology error, and a legal error was made. In fact, minors, natural persons who have not reached the age of 14 have been deprived of the right to a compulsory share in inheritance under the will. This flaw needs to be addressed immediately, as is the case with the bill. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is that clear? Nobody insists? Oh, no? Please, then, from the Onitchuk Committee, please. Turn Onischuk's microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the bill at the right time removes the impreciseness, the legal impreciseness that has crept into the Civil Code, which we have recently approved with you. In particular, it's that underage children have the right to an inheritance, but it's children who are 14 to 18 years old, and up to 14 years are minors, under the new Civil Code, so it's natural that we have to recognize this category of children as having the right to an inheritance, whether they are in the will or not. The committee asked for the support of the bill, and it was carefully considered. It can be voted on in the first reading and in general, the observations of the scientific and expert administration do not have to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u121	Thank you, this is where Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak was co-reported by the Committee. Okay. Then I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending article 1241 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on the mandatory proportion of minors in the inheritance, registration number 5548, please vote. Even Carmazin supports this bill, and somathin also [[12:32:32]] For 303 I think it gives us reason to vote him in general as the Law. No objections? I'd like to vote on it as a law. I'm asking you to vote on it. [[12:32:58]] For 327 The law is passed. Thank you. The question is: a draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. And the repeal of the Ukrainian Act on determining the extent of damage caused to an enterprise, institution, organization of theft, destruction, corruption, scarcity, or loss of precious metals, precious stones, and monetary values. Bill number 3570. Reported by the author of the bill, National Deputy Czernovetský Leonid Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u122	Honourable Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies. "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetski. First of all, I take this opportunity to never use this rostrum, and I want to thank 200 with more than 1,000 voters who supported my election to the Ukrainian Presidents. And secondly, to say that my words did not go to the sand. And the fact that I am ahead of Kiev Omelchenka today, the measure of the richest city in Ukraine, which has virtually stopped construction for ordinary people in Kiev and benefits from a full programme with its jackmasters, is a serious call. I believe that he would have to withdraw his candidacy in advance because the Kievers did not support him. As far as my bill is concerned. First of all, he refers to communists because they are ordinary workers of businesses and organizations, workers who, from the time of the totalitarian system, somehow for lack of just gold there or, as before, alcohol and any other crap, have a double responsibility. It's a very strange, very strange rule of law, and it just protects ordinary workers who work in a factory with precious metals and precious stones. Even today, it is still illegal, perhaps in prisons and elsewhere. I believe that this law is 100 per cent correct and is in line with other rules of the Civil Code, because neither gold nor precious metals are any better than other derivatives from which various important things are produced. That's why I'm asking you to support him. Besides. What else can I say? I think whoever didn't understand this law might have asked me questions before. But in principle, he also beats the pockets of many workers because they can simply be destroyed and left homeless and without other means of living. Please support my law, it's very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u123	From the committee, we have a coreporter, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Kirilenko Viacheslav. Isn't that right? Shall we discuss it? Please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u124	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This law of Ukraine has not been in force since 1995. Because no commercial banking structure will work for the state only in terms of paying taxes, as well as in terms of additional costs in terms of generating multiple damages in favour of the state. This is also confirmed in the explanatory note, where the initiator of the bill indicates that the administration is covering up the shortcomings of this kind, because the banking structure is only compensated for direct damage and the variance should go into the revenue of the State budget. But this plurality, according to the above law, is twice the size of the damage. And in practice, it's almost impossible for a worker to make amends. Facts about concealing the shortages, losses and other violations of monetary regulation and regulation of the precious metals market are evidence of improper control by the National Bank of Ukraine and the controlling authorities. On the other hand, scientists speak of the questionable relevance of Ukraine’s legislation. With regard to support for the exclusion from article 135-3 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, the rule on the establishment by legislation of a separate order of determining the extent of damage in multiple calculations proposed by the initiator of the bill is a serious argument. For example, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on standards of reimbursement for shipping costs within Ukraine and abroad, that the employee will not deposit in the register of the enterprise the remaining funds in foreign currency within a three-day period after the return from departure or in the extended term by the manager no later than 20 days from it in the national currency the three-year amount for which the enterprise is compensated for direct damage and the rest is sent to the income of the State. Although the state will never earn much money on this, and the enterprise in this democratic, paws, chaos will hide such facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u125	Yeah, who else? Nobody insists anymore? Sobolen. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u126	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." My fellow Members, I believe that the bill passed by our colleague Leonid Chernewicki is absolutely in line with the spirit of legislation, because it is actually illegal to impose a double responsibility for the commission of an offence, which contradicts the very spirit of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I would think, giving you the characteristics of this bill, that it's ready for adoption. But I would like to make a few specific remarks about this bill. We have already become a practice and tradition for economic misconduct, even for farm crimes, to be held accountable by depriving citizens of their will. I think it's unacceptable, and in this respect the Criminal Code, which we have adopted, is absolutely in keeping with the spirit of time, because the question is not how to punish a person and whether to punish him or not, all the more so because of being deprived of the will. And the key question is whether this person admits his guilt, and is really on the path of re-education. That is why I find the points that emerged during this election campaign, when it is not a secret that all the prisons voted for Yanukovic as their only candidate. True, we found in Zaporozhye an area where we suddenly made a mistake, a polling station that was in prison voted for candidate Yakovenko because the chief of the district confused and set up the graphs. That's why I'd like neither of us to ever make a ridiculous situation where people get caught for any crime and get punished directly in prisons. And the second fundamental point is that it's very important for me to consider this bill to mean that, in fact, establishing a separate order of determining the extent of the damage in no way did it apply to what happened, for example, directly in determining the damage in double or triple terms. That's important, because then, in fact, we put the person who's committed the offence under the responsibility of a double level, and that can't be. That's why I would suggest that this bill be supported, accepted, and this will remove a whole series of contradictions that exist today in this legislation. And the final moment of principle. In fact, determining the extent of the damage involved in establishing a double or triple responsibility is already a punishment in itself in one way or another. That is why I propose to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u127	Please, Karmazin. Melnichuk behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u128	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. The honourable national deputies, in fact, would be called "on the unconstitutionality of the law of part three of article 135, and the Law on the Determination of the Damages caused by the Enterprise, the Institution for the Disruption, Destruction, Disruption, Lack or Loss of Precious Metals, Precious Stones and Currency Values of June 6, 1995". Why Unconstitutionality? It was because this law provided for the definition of double and triple damages caused by legal persons, theft, destruction, or corruption, the lack or loss of precious metals, precious stones, and monetary values. But there was an interesting mechanism. In part, the sums were used to compensate for the damage, and the rest were listed in the State Budget, apparently as provided for by law. I believe that the proposal made by the Czernovetski People's Deputy is absolutely sound and supportive. So what I want to say is that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports these proposals and writes that they meet the general principles of damages that are applied in market economies. True, they make a small observation that, in accordance with article 27, a reduction in the budget may result in a reduction in the revenue of the legislators. But let's see if there were such concessions to the budget. There were no such concessions. So this rule is long since dead. It should be abolished, and it must be repealed immediately, both in the first reading and in the second. The bill that is proposed to change the portion of article 135, part three, with the symbol three of the Labour Code, according to which in public food companies, in the commission trade, the extent of damage caused by the theft or lack of produce and goods is also determined by the prices set for the sale or implementation of this product and goods, is also absolutely correct because the enterprise is carrying transportation, other costs, administrative costs, and, of course, they are already at a price. And that's why it's said at these prices. That's why I'm offering it. Since neither the Scientific Expert has any observations, nor the National MPs have any comments, I'd like to ask, if we take it in the first reading, take it in the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u129	Please, Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u130	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to exclude part 3 of article 135-3 of the Code of Laws on Ukraine’s Work on the Possibility of a separate order for determining the extent of damage, including in multiple calculations, done by enterprises, institutions and so on. Surely the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support, we have determined on this point, the bill given, and we welcome the drafter of the bill in due time. But on this point, I would like to speak in a different direction. Please tell me, who will compensate for the multiple damage caused to Ukraine's agri-industrial complex for the reforms that have been taking place for the past 10 years? That's hundreds of billions of carbs. The villagers expect answers from parliamentarians, from those who started and did not finish the reform in the countryside. Who will return the hundreds of billions of carbs who lost their village? I think it'll be after the election for sure. And this is going to be an offer made in this Parliament Hall, because today's money for those who have reformed enough, they've already stolen hundreds of thousands of hectares into the peasants and the land. Thus, twice the veto was imposed on the extension of the moratorium on market sales. Don't worry, it's done to store the land in the peasants tomorrow, but it's done to me. I am impressed by today's events that this will not happen in Ukraine. I propose to vote and call on all MPs to support this bill, but we will also introduce another bill to which we will oblige those who have caused such damage to the village to return what has been taken from them in these years of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u131	Yes, final word, please. One minute Chernewick and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u132	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to address all the deputies present and say the following. I like what the socialist representative said, and it's great that the left idea is presented this way. And of course, I am ashamed of what the representative of the Communist Party said, because instead of starving because my laws on the elimination of the privileges of officials, including Communists sitting here, and other laws that I have put in place to eliminate VAT, are not enacted. By the way, Adam Ivanovich, you promised me to do this, and that's why you took so few percent because you're sly in front of the people. This is the case for the protection of ordinary swings. What you're missing is that you don't like banks. Let's compare which one of us is more honest and look at the results that will come out, and fight your leader separately in any region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u133	Question completed. Please, just a minute. Motive nigger and Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! The law must be strict but just. Existing laws regarding the punishment of people for damage caused to an enterprise by the lack or loss of precious metals, precious stones, and monetary values are harsh but unfair. It is inappropriate to deprive people of their will for something small, often not their fault, perhaps even their harm. So let's make this law fair. And in order for him to do so, we need to support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u136	First of all, thank you Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I want to say that bankers like the author of this bill, not only Communists, but all honest people, Ukrainian citizens have not supported and will never support the wealth they have accumulated, it is in tears and in the blood of human gain -- first. Secondly, I want to make it clear that this master has won not 200, but only 121 thousand votes, that is, the support of those he has been able to raise, to buy all over Ukraine. And, Adam Ivanovich, I address you as Head, and I ask you to look at article 381, which says in paragraph 4: If the speaker exceeds the time spent for the speech, or if he does not speak from the question under discussion, or if he does not speak for the reason he is given the word, the Head of the session after two warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u137	Yes, the discussion is over, we'll decide with the bill. I am voting on the adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and repealing the Ukrainian Act on the Determination of the Value of Damage to the Enterprise, the Institution, the Organization for the Disruption, the Destruction, the Disruption, the Deficit, or the Loss of Precious Metals, the Precious Stones of Currency Values. Bill number 3570, please identify yourself. [[12:52:53]] For-143 The decision is not made by factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 84, Ukrainian regions, communists, social democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" - zero, National Agrarian Party - 19, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 8, Union, "One Ukraine" - zero. Center - 1, NDPs, industrialists, entrepreneurs -0. Deminiciative -4, non-fractional -7. The bill was rejected. Let's get to it. Please, Matthew
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich. I ask you to do so. You know that the President's election is now taking place, and there are things that we need to react to very quickly. The first round of elections showed a lot of problems with the organization of elections. And first of all, it's that the lists consciously, not consciously, but complicated the voting. And the second problem is that it's a powerful talent that allows abuse, both in the east and in the west. Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, you have received Bills 6298 of Sklar and Kozachenko, 6299 of Klukkowski, Musiyaki, Gladys, Mukrousov, 6298-2 of Zarabin, Shevchuk and Sietina, which deal with the order of resilient vouchers in order not to be abused with strong certificates, I apologize. They're drafted into one Bill 6299. And the second Bill 6298/1 of Shevchuk refers to issues of the right of the district commission to give, to be included in the lists, not to be sent to the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u140	The right of business commissions to be included in lists if there is a passport and there is a pass. I'm asking you, we'd have to vote them out, and we'd have to put them in the agenda. So there's a proposal to put the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of 6299 in exchange for refractory vouchers and 6298/1 in relation to the right of divisional commissions to be included in the lists of people who are assigned to the district. I would ask Adam Ivanovich to put this to a vote and vote after this bill has been passed out. But in order to multiply it, no, substituted, in order to multiply it and not waste time, I ask you to put it into the agenda and in half an hour we will be able to vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed, please, I see there's a matter of procedure. Then please write down three minutes of the procedure. Please point it on the board. Ivancho, behind him Skin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u142	I'm asking you to pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u143	Please, Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u144	Honorable National MPs. These laws really address many of the problems of existing legislation, and they are asked to be supported. But, Adam Ivanovich, I remind you that another bill is passed, he passed the committee. This is about draft Law 6296, which addresses the problem of collecting government duties from civil lawsuits. It's a simple technical law that cancels payment by citizens of state-of-the-art in the case of an appeal to a court for the exercise of their electoral rights. The request to vote on its inclusion in the agenda as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u145	Please, Konovaluk. After him, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u146	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, indeed the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, and we have consciously given the opportunity to develop ideology and to support all proposals in considering this law, have given opportunity to such opposition. I think that now that we have evidence that our Ukrainian citizens have been deprived of the opportunity to elect a President in the Russian Federation, because the way in which the Supreme Court ruled has been overturned, we understand all of this. Now the effort is to cancel the opportunity for those citizens who are already in Ukraine for some reason in other cities to be determined by their right. But, dear fellows, let us then start as in the United States, for two weeks we will vote and choose the President. So I think to win, I see you have a desire, but let's move honestly and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u147	Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. After him, Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u149	Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u150	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, we have a schedule of meetings for today's plenary day with each of the national deputies on our hands. I don't understand what it's like to be ensnared and ask some questions about a deal to someone who wants to make a deal today, which is what they call the election campaign, even an important law, which is the election law of the President of Ukraine. And this is after those violations that were committed on both sides, that is, on two sides of the presidents of one -- and Yushchenka, and Yanukovich, when there were massive violations of this electoral law. Let us follow the schedule of meetings that we have adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u151	Please, Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters! Indeed, it was painful and sad to see thousands of Ukrainian citizens unable to vote on election day. Let me give you an example. I had a reelection to the district council in August. These were checked lists, and everything was properly stacked there. But, nevertheless, there were lists to vote on the President 10 years ago, where people were not introduced, and those who died were on those lists. Therefore, if it is possible today to remedy this situation in order to let people vote, it is necessary to amend the Presidential Election Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u153	Yes, dear fellows, we will vote. I just want to explain. We really got involved here, but we got involved because, you know, you remember those who were at the board meeting, there was such an agreement that when the project was ready and the committee was ready, it would look at them, and everything would be done in accordance with the Rules, then we would be defined in the session room. And now you and I are going to settle this peacefully, don't get nervous. I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion and consideration. to the agenda and consideration of Bills 6299, 6298-1 and 6296. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:01:24]] For-174 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, by the factions. “Our Ukraine” - 97, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 18, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, “Union” - 2, “One Ukraine” - 1, “Centre” - 12, “NDP” - 0, “Deminiciatives” - 0, “Postfaction - 7. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children is being considered. [[about the size of the aid]] Bill registration number is 5638. According to Vladimir Volodymyrovich Skomarowski, a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The need for adoption of this bill is primarily due to the recognition of the existence of a demographic crisis in Ukraine at a state level. I'm just going to give you a few figures: since 1990, birth in Ukraine has dropped by 40 percent and mortality has increased by 25 percent. What is proposed in this bill? The Law on State Aid to Families with Children, in particular Article 12, sets the amount of single - birth assistance as a double legal minimum. I'm proposing a three-fold size instead of a double. And a more substantial supplement for mom -- it's every month child care, reaching three years of age, is provided to the extent of the statutory subsistence minimum. This rule of law has long existed, but it is halted by transitional positions. So I suggest in the Transitional Regulations that the restrictions of article 15 of this law be removed. Today, when a mother gets a baby, it's about 700 bucks a day, and every month she gets about 70 bucks a month. You can imagine, even the diapers don't have those 70 bracelets. So I propose that, given that we are not yet considering the budget for the following year, we adopt this law, it is supported by an appropriate committee, both in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I really don't know why it was Mikoli Efraemovich who passed the bill. Well, help to families continues to be provided by the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, not by the Ministry of Health. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, Childhood, Mikola Eframovich Polishtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children on the Size of Assistance, No. 5638 of 14.06 this year, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Skomarovski. The bill has been proposed since the first of January 2005 to increase one-time assistance to uninsured children from the same size as twice the subsistence minimum, the project for 2005 to 382 bracelets, i.e. 764 bracelets, as set out in the valid Ukrainian Law on State Aid for Families with Children, to a three-time subsistence minimum per person per month, i.e. 1,146 bracelets. It is estimated that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will need an additional 50 million dollars from the Ukrainian State Budget in 2005. It is also envisaged to remove restrictions on the payment of child care until it reaches its three - year - old age, that is, it is envisaged to provide this type of assistance in the size defined in article 15 of this Law with 335 bracelets per month. Today, this kind of aid is 42.5, and for that year, only 54 bracelets are planned. In the Committee's view, today's low levels of state care for a child under the age of 3 cannot compensate parents for even the minimum costs necessary to support a child. We consider it appropriate to support the idea. to increase the provision of one-time state support for the birth of a child and to help care for a child until he reaches the age of three, which should have a positive impact on the level of birth. Taking into account what has been said, the committee proposes a bill that was tabled by the Ukrainian national deputy Skamarovsky to accept as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any objection here that that's exactly what we're going to do. Please, from the Cabinet of Ministers, the position. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The government, after considering the legislative proposals of the national deputy of Skomarovska Volodymyr Vladimirovich, aimed at increasing the size of State aid at the birth of the child, supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of further development of the bill for the second reading. We believe that the introduction of the proposed changes should take place, based on the need to ensure a level playing field. uninsured and insured parents. Once a child’s birth benefit to insured persons under the National Insurance Act is determined by the Fund’s management, based on the double size of the subsistence minimum. The adoption of the law in the proposed edition will result in the payment of this aid to largely uninsured persons. So the person who hasn't worked a day gets more than the one who works and pays taxes. In our view, we need to amend the two laws that regulate these issues at the same time. This is also the conclusion made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. It should also be noted that the adoption of this bill, with changes to the Final Regulations, will require more than 2 billion dollars from the State Budget in 2005. In particular, to pay for one-time assistance -- 50 million and 2.3 billion -- to help care for a child, to reach three-year-old age. The introduction of this law since January 1, 2005, runs counter to the 27th article of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? You should. Okay. Then please, Mironenko gives his word to Novak. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u159	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The question that we are considering today is very important. I'll just get some numbers. According to Ukrainian statistics, there were 9.8 million children in Ukraine last year; 11.8 million in 1998; and 12.3 in 1997. So in seven years, the number of children in Ukraine has dropped by 2.5 million. It's a threat to the nation. If it's a shortcut. The growing generation will continue at such a pace, so the population of Ukraine will shrink almost twice in the next 25 years. A legitimate question arises, Why do young families not want to have children or are put off for later? The answer here lies on the surface. The difficult economic, political and social situation in Ukraine is making its regulatory adjustments to the demographic situation. Despite all the high - sounding statements made by the authorities regarding the support of young families, they remain mere statements. A newly formed young family is left alone on the second day after marriage with all the problems. Good, if there are still parents who can help. And if they are poor or not at all, what can they do? There's a whole set of problems here, but the most important of them is housing and work. Neither for any reason nor for any other reason today’s authority bears any responsibility. This is your problem, solve it yourself. How can they be decided when there is nothing to buy and there is nowhere to work? And this is where our children in the world came in search of a better destiny. Young people leave Ukraine. For no one, it is a secret that of the 7 million Ukrainians who have gone abroad in search of employment, 95 percent are young. These are young people under the age of 40 who are the ones who should be reproducing the population of Ukraine, so it's clear that in some way you're not going to fix this thing, you need the authorities to turn their faces to the problems of young people, to the problems of demographic population growth, you need to do everything you can to make the young person, the young family, be sure, in their tomorrow and in the days of their children, and then in Ukraine there will be children's laughter, then they can look at their future for sure. I understand very well about the project that we're looking at today, and I'm sure it's not going to change the situation. After all, it is clear today that the money that is offered once for a young family to receive as State support for a child is barely enough for a normal child’s wheelchair, and what else can they buy for? But me and my faction colleagues are going to vote in favour of this project. Because this is at least a step toward improving the living conditions of young families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u160	Thank you, Yavorowski, for preparing Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u161	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka's block, 123rd constituency, who voted almost unanimously for Victor Yushchenk. Dear colleagues, once again, for some reason, I thought of a beautiful, sizable man: If it were not for the people, there would be no problems in the government of Viktor Yanukovich. Where am I going with this? Look, we finally succeeded, although a little bit might have an impact on the disastrous situation that took place in the womb, in the environment of the Ukrainian nation in the very center of Europe. When we actually have one district center dying out, I still have one village in Ternopolska in my eyes, in the middle of the summer, where there are only grandparents, grandmothers and children, children who have been robbed, all the rest have left the border, gone to earn money. I'm leading this to the fact that, please, we've offered at least a little bit to the woman who's having a baby, that is, the normal state should encourage women before they have children, if they don't, there's no prospect. So proposed Deputy Skomarowski, at least one of the least, see what the government does, at least his representative. Look at the fierce resistance, it explains to us that it takes 2 billion to see it. And lying about pensioners who need more than 11 billion. Janukovic can be the head of the government, I'm not talking about him as a presidential candidate, he's in charge today, he can do it, he can sell the best factories today, the same "Cruvoristal" for a lousy penny. The government can do that. And they can't find $2 billion to pay for the mothers who give us a continuation of our Ukrainian lineage with you. I'm just asking everyone, my dear colleagues, let's just support this, because this is really, I don't know who can vote against this bill. It's a pitiful piece of money. And the last thing I want to say. The government representative tells us, you see, there's almost equalization between those mothers who work, and those mothers who don't work. So let's split them up again: the mother who gave birth to the baby is still going to split up and work, and she doesn't work. They're all the same, they're all equal in front of their people, because they're giving birth, once again, to our continuation. Because I think we're going to vote and we're going to prove once again that the authorities think that electorate is a people for once.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u162	Please, Karmazin, prepare Frost Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People, and Honourable Officials. I understand that Mr. Professor doesn't know how to count. But can't they count in the Ministry of Economics? I'm proposing to all the Ukrainian citizens who can hear us right now, to do a few arithmetic actions that everyone who's been to fourth grade in school can do. Thus, 350,000 people are born each year in Ukraine. 350, write down the number. Now, 350 do, subtract from 350 70 dollars, that's what you're still giving every month, and you're getting 230. Now 230 times 350. You'll get monthly expenses. They're about 120 million dollars a month. So you get 1.4 billion. Plus instead of the 700 dollars that they're getting right now, Skomarowski is offering to add 200 more dollars. So this is 200 times 350 again. You're going to get 700 million. That's because you don't get 2.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to count these numbers. I would very much ask you to count the numbers that you lost on one of the Creatures, in vain, unconscionablely helped steal the clans. And there are seven billion that they have, which will return very quickly after November 21st, will return to the State Budget. And then it turns out that those who offered Yushchenko 8,432 bracelets at birth. Not the 900 that Skomarowski offers today, which should be taken with certainty, but 900 at birth is not 8432. But they can be provided. So from an economic point of view, it's not critical. From a political point of view, as long as there is no budget, we're telling you, legislators, where the money needs to be channeled. And that's where you'd like to go. Because soon there will be no one left in the state. I'll remind you, since 1990, the birth rate has dropped by 39.4 percent and the mortality rate by 25.4 percent. And you're going to get 64.8. So now there's a minimum allowable level that threatens national security. So let's save the state, let's adopt this law first and second reading. And thank you Skomarowski for having him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to see a fresh speaker. Mokrous, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u165	Dear friends! Wekrousov, 215 district, Kiev. The question that we are looking at today is extremely important for the state, because today's work force is shrinking, it's getting older. Moreover, Ukraine is in a situation of demographic crisis: every year our population continues to decline. Costs to raise social security are not enough. Sooner or later, this will ruin the state social security system. Today, the birth of a child for a Ukrainian family is related to major material problems: payment to doctors, midwives, nurses, and maternity homes is required to carry their own medication. A step in the direction of this dangerous trend can be a comprehensive incentive for young families to give birth to children. This is the point of Bill 5638, which proposes to increase the amount of monthly one - time assistance in connection with the birth of a child and to place it on a three - fold basis to a minimum of one person’s benefits. Of course, this project deserves support. But at the same time, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party believes that before we look at this project, we have to evaluate the real prospects for its execution. Our faction has taken the initiative to increase the amount of monthly assistance when giving birth to a child to a double size and minimum of living, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has supported this project. A year ago, an appropriate law was passed that came into force on January 1, 2004. What's the result? The positions we have proposed are still not fulfilled because of restrictions in the State Budget Act on the size of the subsistence minimum. Yes, in 2004, the subsistence minimum for calculating this aid was 85 dollars, and in the 2005 State Budget, 90 dollars. As a result, the child’s birth will amount to 180 dollars, not 764, but more than 180 dollars. So, dear fellows, you and I can adopt fine laws, as much as we can increase the size of the payments, but they will not be implemented. So let's be consistent, let's first commit the government to comply with the rules of valid regulations, provide them with financial resources, and then increase the amount of payments established by law. Once again, the "One Ukraine" faction fully supports this idea of a project, but we think its acceptance is somewhat premature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children is submitted to the vote. [[about the size of the aid]] Bill with registration number 5638. Please vote. [[13:22:01]] For 263 Decision taken. Is there no objection in general as a law? The "Ukrainen regions" deny it. There is a bill to amend some of Ukraine’s youth employment laws. Bill number 2172, National Deputy Kosinov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u167	Kosinov, electoral district 170, city of Kharkiv, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, young people under the age of 28 are about 35 percent of the number, in fact, of the unemployed Ukrainians and about 20 percent of the officially unemployed. Thus, the proportion of these individuals is large enough. Today, article 5 of the Ukrainian Employment Act states that the State provides additional guarantees for the employment of working-age citizens who need social protection and who are unable to compete in the labour market, including young people who have completed or stopped working in secondary education schools, vocational education establishments, have been released from the military or alternative non-military service and who are provided with the first job, as well as orphans who have been deprived of parental care, as well as persons who have reached the age of 15 and who, with the consent of one of the parents or the person who replaces them, may, as an exception, be admitted to work. Regrettably, in order to employ the listed categories of citizens, local government administrations, the executive authorities of the relevant employment centers have reserved for businesses, institutions and organizations, regardless of ownership of more than 20 people, up to five percent of the total number of jobs in the workplace, including flexible forms of employment. Therefore, the specific size of these quotas has not been determined. Regrettably, the practice established by the local executive authorities requires improvements in employment quotas. In individual regions, they are conditional or not even established at all. There is also no effective monitoring by public authorities of the implementation of the quotas already established. It is therefore appropriate and justifiable to set the only employment standards for young people in a centralized order. To this end, it is appropriate to establish in the current legislation a position whereby, in order to provide employment and vocational training for young people for all businesses, associations, institutions and organizations, regardless of the form of ownership and management of more than 35 people, there are three percent of the total number of jobs in the workplace, including flexible forms of employment. The employment of these categories of persons will enable young people to be involved in the work, to gain professional skills, and to adapt to work. Employment should also help to address a number of additional social challenges, such as prevention of youth offences. The adoption of this law does not require additional costs from this budget, from the State Budget. And I propose to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u168	Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism. Please take the position of committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, there's no secret that this is one of the most painful issues of today's youth problem remains the question of employment and especially further employment. Well, the current employment law does not allow, unfortunately, to fully address this problem. But also the bill of colleague Kosinov doesn't make such a radical change in the situation that it is. But the committee agreed that we need to take steps to resolve the issues of youth unemployment, the employment of the young generation. The executives have expressed objections to the proposed approach to solving the problem. At the same time, according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2003, more than 850,000 young citizens under the age of 28 are employed by the State Employment Service and slightly more than a third are employed. On occasion, among the unemployed, over 130,000 were graduates of all types of teaching institutions, or young people, who need their first job. Of these, only 43,000 are employed, accounting for 32 percent. The situation is even more difficult in the country. According to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, 35,000 young people under 28 were in rural employment centers last year, and only 7,000 were available for farm workers. At the same time, most of them are still free because of their low wages. At the same time, I want to draw your attention to the fact that all of the facts and data are only relevant to that part of the youth who turned to the employment centers officially and registered there. And the number of unregistered unemployed youths can only be counted by means of special methods, and we do not have a definite number of young people in Ukraine. And, of course, that's a question to be settled. And so I would like to express once again the decision of our committee to support the bill in the first reading, but it needs a major revision before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u170	Thank you, Katherine Seed. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to exchange information on this project? Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u171	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Before I go to the discussion of this bill, I will give an example of one survey. 43 per cent of young Ukrainians would like to be born and live in another country, and 50 per cent would like to move to another country as well. Youth employment is now 41.7 per cent, and 29 per cent of young people do not exclude the possibility of becoming unemployed. And the question is, "Would you like to do business?".. 41 per cent of young people respond negatively because they are well aware that in Ukraine, an absolute minority is now making money by exploiting the work of the majority. Unfortunately, many young people survive who can, mostly living by the principle of buying, selling. It's like buying and selling. In the labour market in Kirovograd, an average of 4.1 per cent of the population was vacant during the year. Among job seekers, young people accounted for 31.9 per cent, of whom 48.4 were employed; 37.3 were employed; 14.3 were not qualified; and 1 per cent were unemployed with higher and secondary education. During the past year, 480 university and technical graduates, 120 high school graduates and 168 military seniors graduated from the Kirovograd Employment Service. These terrible figures are behind living people who hope that we will be with you as the main legislative body of the State to help them find their place in life. And this terrible statistics should not leave us indifferent to this problem. Balance on the professionally qualified basis of demand and supply in the regional labour market has led young people, especially graduates of educational institutions, who cannot compete on an equal footing with highly qualified professionals without real support from the State. The current repressive and coercive practices, so-called job reservation for the population, which do not have the opportunity to compete equally in the labour market in new bourgeois economic conditions, do not work, many business leaders, having learned to consider each piece of paper to be employed by professionals with a corresponding job. This bill will not fully address the problem of youthlessness in general, but it will certainly be able to reduce the tense situation in regional labour markets when it is finalized and adequately secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u172	Yes, Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u173	The 5th constituency, the Communist Party faction of Ukraine, the respected compatriots, I support this bill, I believe that it should be adopted on first reading, but I ask the second reading of the relevant Committee and the relevant Ministry to seriously elaborate, take into account what the proposed rule introduces, changes the quota and thus affects the reduction of the quota of other categories of the population, including those of pre-retirement age. I have had to deal with this problem many times, and young people, and middle-generation people, and pre-retirement age, especially when it comes to pre-retirement work and for what reasons. Business leaders do not want to take for two years, there and for many other reasons do not want to take a job. Therefore, I ask you to take this into account and consider carefully to facilitate the employment of young people and, at the same time, to ensure that other categories of the population are not harmed. Naturally, this bill will not be able to solve the problem, as will other bills passed by this Parliament or this Parliament, I am sincerely grateful to my colleague Solomatin, because Yuri Petrovich has consistently stressed the time and understanding of the population, and this Parliament will only adopt laws for the benefit of capitalists. And capitalists are interested in a global market, including the labour market. The labour market generates unemployment. That is, if we continue to have capitalism, there will be unemployment, and capitalism is interested in significant unemployment, or it needs to ensure so-called employment competition, and it explains that we will choose the best personnel there and so forth. Wow, that's a terrible logic, but that logic is terrible about a huge number of people and it doesn't allow them to live properly. Second. Businesses. However we adopt laws, many businesses do not even comply with our laws, and this is where Matvienkov said correctly, for many reasons, because the enterprises themselves are in a difficult position. It is therefore necessary to return to the path of socialist orientation by means of presidential, parliamentary elections, and then the economy will become well, there will be an increase in production, and new jobs will be created. And we're going to fundamentally, really solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u174	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u175	Mikola Tomenko. Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the history of the question so that logic can understand our discussion. We have two basic laws in 1991, 1993 that regulate this problem. And it's quite clear that in a period that has passed since the establishment of an independent country, it's obvious and logical that the social protection of young people in employment is a problem that needs to be addressed and clarified with the realities that have arisen. At the same time, it's obvious that this is part of a general strategy on the issue that most troubles young people, is getting a job, getting a decent salary, and getting a job, not on a temporary basis, but on a permanent basis. Here is the problem with the fact that the law has a limited number of categories, such as, for example, that the law does not involve people who, under certain circumstances, for example, have stopped their education in higher education institutions. It's a vocational facility, it's a secondary education facility. I think that would have to be taken into account. Because that's the kind of people we have. But strategically, once again, I agree with the committee here that the situation is not changing strategically. Strategically, it can change with clear logic and the concept of creating new jobs. If we have a position and a well-thought-out scheme, how does the local self-government system work and the power to create jobs, then we will not manoeuvre to take the benefit categories away from pensioners and pass it on to young people or young people in that category. Obviously, unless the government proposes a strategy for a new job creation system, these issues will only solve the problem. So I'd like to go to both the relevant committees and the government to work on this issue. You know that Victor Yushchenka’s team prepared this project, creating five million jobs over five years. We're ready to hand these ideas over to make them come true. And finally, I want to say. The most frightening thing is when the authorities today form such a consumer principle in young people when they are offered a bottle of beer, 20 bracelets, to change their political beliefs or political choices. I am absolutely convinced that they were organized by the authorities during the electoral campaign of this show's system, when the Russian group "Sustained Fraud" told Ukrainian youths how they needed to live, and they were handing out the Donetsk's "Sarmat" at the same time. This is not the principle on which to raise people. So I hope that in the near future, young people will be brought up, not by "straight fraud" or by power, but by the values on which Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian history are built.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u176	Yes, well-respected colleagues, discussions. New guy's fourth. I'm sorry. Vladimir Novak, the Communist faction has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u177	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. Dear colleagues, I would like to address this issue that is under consideration today and point out that it is extremely important. I'm not going to exaggerately say that this is a question of interest for Ukraine. Around all the stands, from television screens, from the newspapers, powerful men are breaking up, shouting about how life has improved in Ukraine during the years of independence, how state youth policy has taken place at the political, legislative, and organizational levels. And it's not really about that, and what is happening to young people in Ukraine? And reality is. Today, after graduating from school, a young person is left alone in this life with all his problems. If you are very capable but poor, or your parents are unable to pay for your education at a university, higher education remains an unattainable dream for you. It is also extremely difficult to get a job. In the labor market, full of highly qualified professionals who find themselves behind closed-circuit factories, they offer their services, and the entrepreneur, of course, chooses them, not the young person who needs to be taught. This is what fills young people with rows of unemployed ones. The same is true of college graduates. They have diplomas, but without employment, they also have to fill the ranks of the unemployed. Hence both passivity and indifference, and the increase in crime and drug abuse. And look what's going on in the country. If there is any chance of earning a piece of bread in the city, in the dying village, young people are not better off at all. And no enlightenment is being followed for the better. Frankly, this law too, if we accept it, does not solve the problem. After all, a project aimed at promoting youth employment is designed instead of a general job retention quota of up to five percent in enterprises, institutions, and organizations of all forms of property. A certain degree of percentage depends on the number of employees in the enterprise especially for young people. Not bad, on the one hand, because it turns out that the legislative proposal is aimed at protecting the rights to work for young people, but on the other hand, the proposed proposal reduces the employment quota for other categories of citizens, namely women who have children under the age of six, single mothers who have children under the age of 14 or children with disabilities and others. The problem of young people needs to be solved at the national level. I suspect that today’s authorities need young people only for a period of election to vote. She needs to be looked after and cared for, this is the future of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u178	Thank you, your consideration. What? Just a minute. For Karmazin's vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u179	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I want to draw your attention to the fact that this bill reduces the quota for the employment of such categories of citizens as women who have children under the age of six, single mothers who have children under the age of 14 or children with disabilities, pre-pensive persons, men at the age of 58 and women 53, persons who have been released after punishment or forced treatment. Young people remain outside the scope of the project, who have completed or stopped their studies in higher education institutions and who would also need to be given their first job. In this regard, they need to be distributed both to these people and not to the detriment of the categories that I have talked about because we are pushing down categories of disadvantaged people among ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u180	Catherine Samuel, head of the committee, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Indeed, there is a great deal of attention to the bill of Ukrainian MP Kosinov. But what I want to think about is, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you remember, we've adopted with you changes to the Ukrainian Law, which have increased the age of young people to 35 years, so women who have children from the age of six are already in this category. Single mothers under the age of 14 are also included in this category. Those who have been punished, by the way, 70-80 percent are also young people. But really, there are problems, and I think we're going to work together to make it a normal bill. There are problems. But please back up, unlock the question. And along with you, I think we're going to get to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u182	Mikola Oneschuk, please. And we'll vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u183	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs will vote in favour of this law, although it does not systematically address the employment problem of young people, but at least takes the right step to ensure this, today's most vulnerable, by the way, categories that should actually live in the future. Hence, it is suggested that, in particular, the law be voted on in the first reading today. And given what the parliamentary committee has, the profile committee, all the possibilities to weigh all the arguments that are going to be made in the room today, to work on it and to approve it in general, in the second reading, in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. May I have your attention, please? A committee proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on employment insurance for young people, registration number 2172. Please vote. [[13:45:10]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 60, "Regions of Ukraine" - 52, Communists - 58, SDPU - 10, "Trudova Ukraine" - 14, National Agrarian - 20, SPI - 13, Block Timoshenko - 15, "Union - 7, "Only Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 13, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 13, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Afterfraction" - 7. There is a draft regulation on urgent measures to support the International Children's Centre, Artek, and mark the 80th anniversary of its establishment. Reporter to the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u185	Thank you. Having held a field meeting in Artec, the committee considered a draft of the above-mentioned decree by a group of Ukrainian national deputies, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. A few words. Artek today is a health complex that belongs, among other things, to the DUSS, to a year-long action that takes about 27,000 children from Ukraine, SND, and far-off countries. [[It's very bad.]] Unfortunately, only 40 percent of them are children who travel on budget trips. In recent years, however, there has been a wide range of problems that prevent effective development and demand immediate solutions to the wear and tear of buildings, buildings, communications, outdated child - feeding systems, the provision of normal living conditions, a medical base, and the acute social issues of the labor community. Well, the list can go on. Helpful. There are 345 buildings and buildings on Artek's balance sheet, the remaining cost of the core funds is 104.8 million dollars, and the total percentage of them is almost 50 percent, and the proportion of individual sleeping quarters is 86 percent. Engineering communications include 3 boilers, 43 miles [43 km] of highway heat grids. Their endurance is 60 percent. Well, there's a lot more to talk about. Out of 300 transport units, 90 percent of the vehicles and 50 percent of buses have passed the long - term physical wear and their further exploitation is particularly dangerous in the mountain conditions of Crimea. An outdated material and technology base for a seaport, a sea rescue station, sports facilities, medical devices. In a rather difficult state, there's a material-building area, no housing costs, there's half a thousand families in the hostel, and that's almost 30 percent of all the workers. On April 1, 2004, current receivables amounted to 222 million, 213,000 dollars. Including the travel budget's debt to almost a million dollars. The debt for goods and services is also very high. In addition, receivables are increasing. The past management of Artec has taken credit at a commercial bank under such conditions that Artek is practically to be sold and, unfortunately, set up children's travels, which are basically managed by the bank that granted the loan. And so this summer, unfortunately, the state has not been able to send most of those children who need to be healed in our children's center, Artek. For the sake of justice, it should be noted that the management of Artec has changed, and last year, it has made so many debts that will have to be accounted for for for many more years. And the labor team that we've met, they're not sitting around with their hands, but they're trying to implement a series of actions when we get out of a critical state, but the main thing is, they start early in the morning and end up with their feedback from creditors. But today it is clear that the development of the centre requires comprehensive state support. That's why we came out with a Supreme Council decision, and we need a comprehensive state support. And given the exceptional significance of his activities and the fact that since 16 June 2005, Artek is 80 years old, and that there is no such children's centre anywhere in the world, we ask that we support the proposed draft decision, take it as a basis and as a whole with such an amendment, as we have not been able to consider in the summer, the time has not been enough: to replace the deadline for the submission of the programme from 1 October to 1 January, i.e. by 1 January to submit the program and I considered it necessary to consider the day of the Government the issue and it is planned in a decision that reviewed the situation of Artek in the complex and still to do so that he worked primarily on the children of Ukraine for various categories, for the poor, for orphans, for the creative children and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, since this is a reduced procedure, it's one minute. Well, with a motive you can take second, with a motive, please, Chubarov. Dear colleagues, let's make a decision right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u187	Dear Catherine Semenovna, it becomes a rule when, you know, state funds are invested in the reconstruction of one or the other tenants and sanatoriums and so on, and then after a while the most attractive shells, or areas of land, are put outside the single complex. I want to ask you, we're going to take this decision, I'm going to support it, but where is the guarantee that tomorrow, after tomorrow, Artek won't be shredded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u188	We have done everything we can to establish that Artek is not to be privatized, refers to objects that are not to be privatized, but why I proposed to spend the day of the government, because what you're talking about has happened where, while the Soviet Union has been, the VIP facilities and the alienation has already passed, it's already privatized, why I'm underlining, it needs to be decided, it's the government's day and it needs to be done in such a way that Artek, with the kind of education that is available today, is to leave it and vice versa, it needs to be made richer, but we've got to make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, how convincing. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u190	Now let's take it as a base, then we'll complete it. On the basis of this, dear colleagues. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Change the vote. Please let's talk. Mironenko, please come in. Well, if they insist, I won't break the rules. Please. Mironenko, will you please perform? Yavorowski, please. We continue our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u191	I didn't want to speak, but with respectable colleagues coming here, I'll say a few words. 5 constituency of Ukraine, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, Artek International Center, has been the legitimate pride of Ukraine since its creation since 1925. The crime against Ukraine will be brought before the people of Ukraine by a conscious position of the legislative, executive authority that condemns the destruction of this centre, which, by the way, is known throughout the world, and we can be proud of it. He is known for his fine works. If this decree is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and implemented by the executive branch, it will not only preserve Ukraine's prestigious positions in this area in the world, but also provide an opportunity to provide both education and the rehabilitation of children, which our children certainly need. Respectable compatriots. I would like to refer to the members of all factions, of course, to speak, but I would like even those speakers to point out that it is still an island of health and kindness, a universally recognized humanism. And this island of goodness and humanism, if we are to think of our children, children of Ukraine, of the health and upbringing of our nation, we must support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u192	Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u193	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, 123 legendary constituency. Dear colleagues, we will indeed take note of this moment that Ukraine was brought about by the collapse of the empire by an amazing pearl that is, in fact, nowhere in the world. It's a unique place, well known to the whole world. Period. It's perfectly clear here. And I am convinced that no one today will vote against giving him some help. But I'm a little surprised, I have deep respect for Mrs. Catherine, but the fact that her performance was so you know something so loyal, so soft. I think the question here should be quite different. What's going on with Artek today? In fact, it's already on the verge that we're going to give him money, which is actually going to be managed by the Duchy, and more specifically by Igor Bakay. You heard it yourself, it was already said, the committee head said that a loan was taken to quietly release the "Artek" and we'll forget it once and for all. Because of this, I am absolutely convinced that we should return to this issue as a representative body on behalf of the people, come back, do a thorough analysis, maybe even create a commission on this issue. And that day of government, I support it, must be carried out. But we need to find out what's going on underneath this. Because in fact, if we're blindly-into-the-visited today, I know where this money is, in which pockets they're going to come out. That's what today is all about. You should think about it. We did that today. It's paid for travel, and we're still paying from the budget. Maybe I don't have to impose anything on anyone, but I want to say, maybe this version that it would actually be, let's say, free, and every area would have, let's say, some quota of its own and keep it. There could be an option. In time, he will likely be able to make some money. That is, we need to think about it and preserve it. Because, by my definition, I'm convinced that Artek is less than Creebrisstal, it's no less than Clayland's Santa Claus and so on. Let us put this politically in one row, support this decision today, and make sure that we return to that question. It's a matter of our honor. And at the end of the day, because we're running out of work, I mean. What the C.V.C.A. has been stifling and hasn't told us anything for a few days now, I have to tell you. All the reserves Janukovic had are in fact exhausted today. Only the voices of Yushchenk remain. They simply remain silent in order not to acknowledge his victory for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u194	Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u195	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! It is imperative that this decision be made, but it is necessary to write a commission headed by the Honourable Seminyuk that it should be checked because I have. I've been asking questions here twice about what the land is. Every year. There's the President sitting there all the time, there's all the government officials, there's the country's mother-in-law, there's all the credit, there's all the credit, there's all the work that's needed. And we showed that the land had already been brought out. We had people texting us from Crimea, signaling. And that's it. There are my references, there are answers. There are criminal cases. Korniakov arrived, then some criminal cases were violated, and the Attorney General was changed -- everything! Donkey's got it covered! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to stop doing what you're doing right now! We all know what's going on in Donetsk. Today, the students of the colleges are telling you that you will have strong gifts, and the entire university, which has a bearing on law, will leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u196	Let's do it on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u197	What are we doing? It's really a shame, I agree with the Regions. And so on. It's a very rich camp now. We haven't been told what a travel ticket is worth. 600 U.S. dollars. 600 U.S. dollars! That's over three thousand dollars. Ladies and gentlemen! Who Can Buy Today? It's a camp for very rich people, for very rich people. And so let's do it again for the state. In order to do so, he must be expelled from the State Administration, which has been compromised by mass thefts. We don't see any reaction. There is no criminal case against the Attorney General's Office regarding the referral of the Court of Auditors. I'm surprised at Valentine Simone. You wrote. But that's not something to write. You were supposed to come to the Supreme Council, speak here from the rostrum. You can take your word and say it at any time. I showed you how hundreds of millions have been stolen from the State Budget. Why is there no crime involved? So we have to write down an exclusion clause from State administration on this, which is what we consider to be the Supreme Council, what we need to do. Still, debt. What debt may be when travel is not limited to the property that is in place today? I agree that it's in its own sense, it's, in fact, like "Criminal." And therefore, honourable national MPs, I ask. I suggest you take it up with the committee. The two committees and the Stretovich committee were further tested together with the committee that reported today. That is, all of these three subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u198	Yes, thank you, Your Honor, the discussion is over. From Oneschuk and Semenyuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u199	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. My dear colleagues, in fact, the question today is whether the Supreme Council is staying away from the problems that exist today in the Artetica, or whether we are trying to provide something like a higher legislative body with certain means that are in the Supreme Council to make the situation in Artecza a better place. It seems that the bill, the Supreme Council's decree, which was introduced by the people's deputies, including Oleg Petrov, who represents the faction of the industrialists and entrepreneurs and the People's Democratic Party, allows this to happen. Having spent Government Day, at least we will be able to assess the situation in more detail and consider what recommendations we will make to the government to improve the situation in this unique centre. So the faction's position is today to support the draft decision, to take action there at the right time, and in this way to respond to the situation in Artech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u200	Valentina Seminouk, please. Let's vote now, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u201	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. I fully support the draft decree, and our faction will vote for it. But I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, would like us to give a protocol commission. The Special Supervisory Commission, after finding out the major violations, we have asked the Attorney General's Office to provide information on how 9.5 hectares of land from Artek's territory was dedicated to the construction of Russian companies. So far, no answer. So I would like the Attorney General's Office to report on the day of the Office on the address that I gave and the facts that were presented to the Special Supervisory Board. And he was also invited to the meeting by the head of the Constitutional Court. When's the end of the day when the decision on the DUI will be made? Because the soul is not going to be the only one that's going to be around. " Artek" and will continue to sell those objects that are not allowed to be privatized. And I'm going to ask you to take this as a protocol assignment. The decision must be made immediately, for soon there will be no place to direct the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-03-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I ask that the secretariat prepare appropriate instructions for the questions raised in the speech of the Head of the Special Auditor. I would also like to say to Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, that he said that Ukraine had received a unique pearl. Everything on Ukrainian soil is Ukrainian. We didn't get anything, it was in Ukraine. Then, dear fellows. I'm putting forward a proposal for a committee on the adoption as a whole as a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on urgent measures in support of the International Children's Centre "Artec" and the celebration of the 80th anniversary of its establishment. Registration number 5736. Please vote. [[14:04:30]] For-286 It's been decided. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 62, "Regions of Ukraine" - 50, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 9, "Trudova Ukraine" - 8, National agrarian - 19, SPO - 19, Block Timoshenko - 14, "Union" - 11, "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 14, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 10, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Afterfraction" - 7. [[I'm reading - for]] Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that were scheduled to be considered today on Wednesday are all considered. Thank you for your work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since the 15th hour of committee meetings and factions and parliamentary groups. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday.
