ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Invite the deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:19]] There were 247 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. For your consideration, honourable members of the people, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property is being introduced. [[on aid to privatised enterprises]] Author of the project, National Deputy Komar. And from the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Administration, Property and Investment, who will be speaking? Please, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy, the management of the national economy, and the ownership of the investment are invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u2	People's MP Gurenco. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of People's Agriculture, Property and Investments at its meeting considered the draft Law on Change of the Law on Privatisation of State Property by Ukrainian National Deputies Komar, Korsakovic and others, supported it and invited the Supreme Council to adopt it as a basis. [[on the benefit of privatised workers]] The proposed bill is aimed at eliminating the benefits granted by the current Ukrainian law on the privatization of state property to the administrative apparatus of the enterprise, the managers, their substitutes, the chief specialists, the managers of structural units, dispatchers and other categories concerning the additional acquisition of shares of open stock companies created in the process of privatizing and corporateizing those enterprises for a total of 5 per cent of the statutory fund of the company. The bill also proposes to remove the provisions of the law, which determine the specific price at which the company’s employees are subject to an indemnification of shares that are privatized. The price of one share is set at half the nominal value of the share. In support of the deletion of part of the fourth 25th article of the law, the members of the committee note that such changes will enable the level of the rights of every employee of the enterprise whose property is privatized to remove the conflict situations that are currently taking place during the implementation of the specified provisions of the law, and these conflicts arise between the administrations and the labour groups of the companies listed. With regard to the deletion of the first part of article 25, the committee did not support the proposed proposal and considered it to be of no use, since the positions that determine the special price were not met. Thus, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted on the basis of paragraph 1 of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of article 25, which should be deleted. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus notes that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State. [[it's added]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u3	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u4	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u5	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. They signed up for Mironenko, Yavorowski, Cherniak. Who insists on the performance? Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Vladimir Cherniak. Javorovski microphone, please. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u6	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. It's a very good law, it needs a law. I think we shouldn't even waste a lot of time discussing it. It must be supported and voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u7	Mironenko, please. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u8	5 constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Dear compatriots, the faction will not vote in favour of the bill. There are serious reasons for that. In this case, the bill, if I, unfortunately, am late, is about privatizing the benefits. This bill provides benefits for the management of enterprises. And, of course, it would be socially unfair. Communists cannot support such a law and ask why it was necessary to submit the bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Well, perhaps the first thing that's asked is for someone to get hurt again from the vast majority of the labour force. Second. In order to divide the workers by. Huh? Cancelling. Well, if it's a cancellation, I'm in favour. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u9	Who else insists on the performance, dear colleagues? Dear colleagues. Rudkov microphone, please. Please prepare for the vote. Yes, in the first reading. Rudzkowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, in fact, the situation of privatization cannot match normal processes in this area. Why? Because you can't divide people who work in one company into black and white people. It takes everyone who works to have the same rights. But first of all, whether we adopt such laws on the characteristics of privatization, we need to adopt appropriate laws prohibiting the privatization of strategic enterprises. The socialists insisted and insisted. And if energy and telephone systems are sold, we're going to have a liberal state with high prices for everything and an inefficient economy. We believe that these questions should be put to the vote first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Mr. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please head of the committee. Prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u12	For reasons of vote. I want to be absolutely clear about supporting my colleague Rudzkowski. And what he says is right, as is often the case. But today we have this case where I would ask both Rudzkowski and members of his faction to support this bill in the first reading and will continue to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u13	There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property on the Benefits of Privatized Enterprises Workers. Registration number 3428. Please vote. [[16:12:25]] For 223 We didn't make it. Please mobilize. Please mobilize. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. [[on aid to privatised enterprises]] Registration number 3428. Please vote. There's a vote coming. Please vote faster. [[16:13:07]] For 219 The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 87, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 57, SDPU - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian - 20, SPO - 20, Timoshenko - 18, "Soyuz" - 0, "Urban" - 0, "Centre" - 4, NDP, industrials, entrepreneurs - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 9. For the reasons of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, please. Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko's microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I think we should consider the situation that has now taken place in the hall: it is, firstly, that the break has just ended, secondly, the turbulent debates that took place during the break and now, after the break, they inspire us to believe that we are voting for this bill. And I would ask all of our colleagues who are in favour of that idea to step up a piece of regulation, a part of the state in regulating the economy, to vote and vote. I think we're going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u15	The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. [[on aid to privatised enterprises]] Registration number 3428. Please vote, please vote. [[16:15:06]] For 225 Yeah, well, they didn't vote, did they? Well, it didn't work, I see. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, registration number 3428. [[on aid to privatised enterprises]] Please vote. [[16:16:02]] For 228 Decision taken. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on quality and product safety certificates is under consideration. Registration number 5054, reporter Victor Pinzenik, prepare Yuri Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In the fairly uncomplicated wording that contains this bill, I would just like to talk about the essence of this decision. In October 2003, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree stipulating that every piece of paper should be glued to a hologram every year. The price of this decision, i.e. every batch of goods we have is certified in accordance with legislation. The requirement of certification or the existence of a document of conformity is a rule of law, but the government thinks that's not enough. The government believes that each batch delivered to the store on copies of documents should be a certificate of conformity. This certificate, a copy of the certificate, must have a hologram on it. I can make up what it costs for Ukrainian citizens. The price of this question is about 1 billion dollars. This decision will lead to what some people know about business, a known corrupt scheme: a billion dollars of printing holograms. This decision will result in an increase in prices for Ukrainian goods. In this regard, it is suggested that a decision be taken that does not allow for an increase in production, a loss of budget, and a decision that has no quality control because quality control is to be provided by the manufacturer. People's deputies' request to support a decision that blocks the possibility of creating a billion dollars for some businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u17	Thank you. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The project proposes to amend several Ukrainian legislation on the order of certification of types of products, which will help to remove obstacles to entrepreneurial activities. I want to remind you that the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers was signed accordingly, but several thousand people who cared for both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers forced the Cabinet of Ministers to postpone the implementation of the certificates. At the same time, we know that millions of these certificates have been printed, and the corresponding lobbyist forces are now trying to re-enter these documents as soon as the relevant period ends. We have considered this paper carefully in the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, discussed it with representatives of business associations, and asked the Supreme Council, our committee to support the bill, registration number 5054. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u19	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. We enrolled five national deputies, although we need four. Vladimir Yavorowski, please microphone. She's refusing, isn't she? All right, then the school will be followed by Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block, Yavorowski and Jovkovsky regions, Lvivščina, Majorate. Dear colleagues, the fact that we are considering this bill today is another proof that we have a completely adventurous government today for which victory in elections is the most fundamental. Because of that parade of totally baseless dilettarian and adventurous promises we have. I want to mention before this bill around here in the early 1990s we looked at it the same way, we were still a little bit experienced and, I remember, we voted to put on rear bumpers of cars, if you remember, these tapes, so these red ones there and so on. Then it was discovered that someone had printed these tapes and made huge billions of dollars, and then it turned out to be an absolute nonsense that no one needed. Today what we have, what we've prepared for the government, is another adventure about what's made up, and this money is going to be pulled out. The government would like to get them out of the national pocket. And this is at a time when we know how many uncontrollable counterfeits today are both alcoholic beverages and food itself, but in this country, you see, everything is normal. When you can poison a candidate to the president, what you can talk about is an ordinary uncle or an aunt who can be given, which means a totally surrogate vodka there or a stinking sausage from a former toilet paper and all that. Because of this, I am absolutely convinced that we are today. It's an MP's bill and he's putting a stop to this adventure -- it's very good, and I'm sure we'll have our hands and our willpower to stop this adventure of today's government. Thank you. I think we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u21	Andrew School, please. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski. Then it's Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You know, I would also like to support this high-quality bill, because it puts emphasis on the abuse of the concept of product certification, because product certification itself is necessary and absolutely necessary, because it gives Ukraine the right to travel around certain goods. Therefore, it is not worth hindering or hindering the activities of certification authorities, but in this situation it is said that it is not worth conducting, so - called, double certification, that is, raising additional funds. Therefore, we should vote in the first reading and in general. It's going to be my proposal and the proposal of the faction that I'm presenting here with us getting out of this colossal, government and certification body. But I'd like to stop at some more details. I would like to look at the concept of "certified" and "certified products" in general, because certified products are not only vodka, they are not only cigarettes, but also cultural products, they are also certified, they are given the right to trade in those or other tapes in Ukraine, the goods to be translated into national languages, and they are not. Each of the national MPs present has a mobile phone. We open it and watch it. Only a few companies comply with Ukrainian legislation, and certified products are sold in Ukrainian. This totally nihilistic attitude towards Ukrainian is distinguished by the company Samsung. Never and nowhere are the two languages traded in Ukraine, which are Russian and English in any Samsung phone. I'd like to say that at least out of patriotic sentiment, these phones don't buy to the Ukrainians because they despise the Ukrainian state and disrespect the state language. And I don't understand why these phones are certified in Ukraine. The same is true of movies. Why is it not duplicated in the national language when a fully legal certified film is being sold in Ukraine? I mean, you and me, as consumers. I realize that in Ukraine, not 100 percent of the population speaks Ukrainian, not even 75 percent of the population, but this billingism should not prevent Ukraine from demanding that the certified product be only the product to which it is given in the national language. If it is a film, there must be an extra national language. And all the other language products have to be provided in the national language, then everything will be fine. If necessary, let the Russian, Polish, Arabic, all the rest of the languages, but we must ensure that Ukrainians are allowed to receive information about the availability of certification in this product in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u23	Yes. Mikola Rudzkowski, please. Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u24	Vladimir Cherniak, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear colleagues! One of the functions of Parliament is to amend the laws that we have adopted to bring them into line with adopted new laws or to create more favourable conditions for their operation. That's exactly what this bill is about. The project proposes to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the order of certification of certain types of products. If we adopt this law, it will help to remove obstacles to entrepreneurship. So the bill is aimed at removing obstacles to entrepreneurship, which will result in creating a competitive environment in Ukraine's economy, which will have a positive impact on the quality of production, the efficiency of businesses. This connection is established, and the logical connection is laid down in this law. What is specifically proposed? It is proposed that the supplier be released, which is subject to confirmation of compliance with the obligation to have a copy of the certificate of conformity, a declaration of conformity or a copy of the certificate of conformity. Instead, it is suggested that the documents allow for the transfer of the product from the manufacturer to the supplier, the registration numbers of the certificates of conformity, not the documents themselves, but the numbers, i.e. the removal of bureaucratic barriers to entrepreneurial activity. In this regard, in my view, Parliament has the necessary and sufficient conditions to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for your registration as we discuss the project. to the vote, sorry, as the discussion of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine has been completed. [[on quality and product safety certificates]] I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the bill, registration number 5054, to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on. [[on quality and product safety certificates]] Please vote. [[16:28:20]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing that this document be accepted as a whole. Is there no objection? I then put to the vote due to the absence of objections by deputies to the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 5054. [[on quality and product safety certificates]] Please vote. Here comes the vote. Please vote. [[16:29:05]] For 247 The law is passed. A draft law on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian Act on the mandatory State Pension Insurance is being published, registration numbers 4600, 4600-1, 4600-2, 5271. Reporters: Turkish National Deputies, Culczynski, Cibenko, Ostas Is there a Turk named Alexander Valentinovich? Please. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u26	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. I want to start with the nice news of my speech. Ten days to victory over the antinational regime. Now for the bill. I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 46 of the Constitution of the Ukraine of Pensions, other types of social benefits and assistance, which are the main sources of existence, should ensure the standard of living is not lower, I stress, not lower than the subsistence minimum established by law. At the same time, there has been less retirement in Ukraine for decades than there is. So we put our pensioners beyond survival. It contradicts the laws, it contradicts the Constitution, it contradicts the moral standards of society. At the same time, honourable colleagues, when I passed this bill early in 2004, that is, in January, we received the conclusion of our Cabinet of Ministers, which is headed by Mr. Janukovic, that we have neither the budget nor the Pension Fund. And the Cabinet of Ministers was not recommending the adoption of such a law. At the same time, during the last month, all television channels, all media outlets, tell society that Yanukovic is taking his own initiative to raise pensions to a minimum of living. And every pensioner, along with the bracelets that are added to the pension, gets a ticket or a ticket, or a paper that says hello to Yanukovic, who cares about pensioners. I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, when the government was telling the truth? At the beginning of the year when I proposed this bill, is it now that he sends his ad greetings to our pensioners? I want to surprise you, he's both then and now he's lying, and he's still lying. Now he's lying about raising his pension. Don't believe it, respectable citizens, it's not an increase in pensions. These are election grants, one-time, two-time grants that will stop immediately after you vote for Mr. Yanukovich. On the other hand, the government lied early in the year when it said that there was no pension money in the state. There's money in the state. This requires legalizing the shadow sector of the economy. To do that, we just have to stop stealing from the budget, and we provide our pensioners with no less than a minimum of living, no less than the Constitution requires. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to vote in the Supreme Council and to support the requirement of the Constitution and to state the responsibility of pensions that should be no less than.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u27	Thank you. Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz, please. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! What is the purpose of the bill? Of course, it is caused by the astonishing injustice of article 28 of the Law on State Pension Insurance. This article does not take into account an internship that does not take into account the longevity of pensioners and refers to only 20 percent of the average income in the field. This is the minimum pension. I absolutely agree with the Turkish that the Constitution should be enforced, and the minimum pensions should be at least a subsistence minimum for the disabled. I also filed this bill early in March, and the government also told me that there was no funds, that it needed a substantial increase in funds. But as you can see, today's funds are in two months' worth of relief, and in the budget, as we've all heard yesterday, there's no line to ensure that pensions are recalculated to a minimum, to a minimum of living minimum. But you can agree with the bill, and they all raise the same subject, which is the subject of the 28th article. So this once again emphasizes that it needs to be changed. And you can agree with the Turkinov bill and the law of Peter Stepanovich Cybenk and Ostasha, and make four bills one law, but I will still insist that my position remains that every year more than 20 and 25 years of insurance was 1 percent of the average salary of the previous year, but not more than 75 percent, and that's fair, because thousands of letters go when people worked 35-40 and more years, and that doesn't affect their pension insurance in any way. So all the projects that are currently being reviewed, I'm going to propose to merge them into one and move them on the other, thus ensuring justice and from the working time. From the length of work and from the average wage. And it's not true that the Analytical Authority says that my bill doesn't count or match the logic of the law. It takes into account both the length of work and the average wage, for it refers to the percentage of the average wage and describes the length of work. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u29	Thank you, Mikolo Georgievich. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko is invited to speak. Prepare Igor Ostrash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I must admit that I was forced to submit my bill by the populist steps of the government. This is about the fact that the Constitution, the legislation of Ukraine, provides that the only normative instrument to regulate the issue of pension insurance should be laws. No regulation, no other normative instrument can regulate the level of pension insurance. This is the first time. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Constitution of Ukraine requires that a minimum pension, in any council for that part of Ukrainian citizens whose pension is the only source of existence, should be at a level that provides a minimum of living. That's why you introduced the bill, unfortunately, there are no government representatives today who might or might object, but they're obviously busy with other things, and they're obviously not very keen on this problem. So he introduced this bill, which provides for the minimum pension to be set at the minimum of living. What gives the adoption of this law? First of all, the adoption of this law allows the situation to be reversed at the level of legality in the state, i.e. when the level of pension insurance should be regulated only by laws and only. This is the first time. Secondly, we have to understand that when the amount of pension is established by law, that all other pension payments go beyond the minimum size, that is, by the minimum of living. And that's very important. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to support this bill. And one more thing, and one more thought of his support. The point is that no matter who treats this government, its term of office ends because the President has the right to appoint a government after his election. And that's why I would like our Ukrainian citizens to have guarantees of a state of pension insurance at the level of the law, not the regulations for which no one will be responsible tomorrow and all of them will be baptized. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u31	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Igor Ostrash, please, your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u32	Igor Ostrash, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! We should be responsible politicians with you and do everything we can to avoid working on the principle of a deluge after us, that is, after the election at least a deluge. And to do everything possible not to tear down the economy, not to trigger the process of inflation, the sharp spike in prices that we're already seeing, unfortunately, with you. So when I showed up in Ukraine as a supporter of Janukovic's power, I thought there would be another promise: that every "man, quoted in the original language, will be given by grandmother, and every grandmother by man, and of course every other bottle of vodka." Well, I'm waiting for this to happen. As for my bill. I would like to tell you that article 25 of the Act of Action refers to the insurance system and evaluates one year of insurance as 1 percent of the salary. So for as much insurance as possible in men from 20 to 60 years of age, you can get a 40 percent pension from a salary, which is, say, a step backwards compared to the previous law, since it was possible in 25 years. The internship was possible for 55 percent of the pension. The same is true of women. You know that women who retire at the age of 55 can practically reach retirement rates of only 35 percent of their salary. So we have serious discrimination between men and women. So on the basis of this, we have proposed that before reaching retirement age, we set one year's rate for men - 1.8, and for women - 2 percent and, as a result, men will be able to get 72 percent of their salary, and women will get 70 percent. I think that's a fair standard. Because even today, government officials at 25 years of age can get 80 percent of their salary. One more thing is very important. You know, we have a serious gap between the largest and the smallest pensions, and it's almost 10 times. So I propose in my bill that you limit the maximum pension size of four living minimums. And finally. Article 32 sets out a minimum of insurance for persons with disabilities, but it is not appropriate to apply this standard to persons with disabilities from childhood who are not always able to earn even a minimum of insurance, so it is suggested that disabled persons do not apply this standard from childhood. I support the idea of adopting our drafts in the first reading, and by the second reading, we will normally be working on a single joint project. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u33	Yes, from the committee position. Peter Stepanovich. Seeing the committee on these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! First. In fact, the bill and the committee's attitude towards the proposed bills. The committee supported the idea of adoption in the first reading of all four of these bills. The mechanisms should be slightly different to our eyes, or three first drafts, which are the main subject of knowledge and have a minimum pension. At the stage of preparation for second reading, they can be united into one law. And the fourth bill, the author of which is Igor Ostas, because the subject-matter regulation is a little bit different, and we're going to be preparing it for a second reading with a separate document, but we're basically supporting all four bills because they're meant to benefit Ukrainian citizens. And one more principle that I have to say today. The point is that after the adoption of the last three decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I'm referring to decree 1783, which reduced the average wage for 2002 from 376 actual to 306; after the adoption of Decree 943, which introduced a 30-year pension allowance for those citizens who had a pension. less subsistence minimum; and especially the last 1215, which introduced a targeted allowance to a subsistence minimum, in fact, these three decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine created a situation where pension insurance was reintroduced into manual management, which cannot be allowed. The committee therefore insists, in principle, on the support of all four bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! They enrolled in the speech by Yavorowski, Mironenko, School, Rudzikowski, Cherniak. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u36	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Your Honor, our Presidency! The citizens of Ukraine who elected us to this legislative body! I'm, you know, respected colleagues. More and more I think that these are kind of the inconspicuous days that we're having here in Parliament. Believe me, for God's sake, this is going to be one of the best pages of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, because in these conditions, working as we do is not going to be possible for anyone else in this room. Those people who might prevent us from working, they don't, they don't sit around today, I don't believe that they're in the election campaign, and they're out there somewhere, and those people who really want something to change in their lives, in their poor lives, they're sitting here and they're sitting here day after day, we're actually adopting almost all the laws that I believe we would never have adopted if in this room Janukovich was sitting, sitting in Azarov, they'd be coming out and painfully bypassing the sacred word "mother," they'd be here explaining that there's no money, there's no money, there's no money, there's no money, there's no money, and there's no money. We must and we want our people to know that there is money in the state. If Janukovic gets distracted by them, even though Ratushnjak says it's not from the budget, it's from Janukovich's associate, I understand that, but you understand it for yourself, it's a good joke, but it's a very bitter truth. Because everybody knows today that we have 50 percent of all the capital in the shadow economy. And it's not the poor budget that the authorities are feeding, it's actually living and living today, the executive, just from this shadow budget. Because we today have the courage to do the basic thing, to level the process so that the pension is not lower, what the representatives of the BUT are proposing today, and what other national MPs are offering, I'm convinced that it's really great, and let people know that we're going to adopt these bills today, and we're going to make our people's lives a little bit easier. Never believe that there is no money in the state. I want to remind you of that period, whether someone likes it or not, when Yushchenko came. Actually. The government. In fact, reforms had not yet taken place. But he did what no one did to him. He moved away from the national trough -- from the budget -- the fattest, the boldest pigs. And you saw how much money went into the budget right away. They then resigned Yushchenk and today they crawled into this trough with their feet. That's why I'm convinced, let's vote for these bills. It's a very good thing, and I think it's up to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u37	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u38	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the draft law introduced by the member of our faction, Peter Stepanović Cibenko, and representatives of other factions, because it is indeed imperative for the people. The minimum pension should be at least a subsistence minimum, but more. Of course they'll tell us there's no money in the state. But this is a lie, and this is clearly understood, at least by examining the budgets that were adopted in 1992. Every year, the budget provides funds for the so-called oligarchs, and, more precisely, for the major capitalists, who have engulfed the people through privatization, tariff leave. And the State and people are now paying them all the time every year. It's scary. What a morale when they say that the communists were behind the class. Right, they were in a class position because we had an open mind, the workers had to be in power, the policy had to be for the benefit of the workers. And now? Now, the class position is clear: capitalists, capitalists, and politicians are committed to the benefit of large capitalists. Every year, including this year, and next year, money will be paid to domestic and foreign capitalists. The so-called foreigners, often the same as our natives, who broke in there, hid their money in offshores and so on. But we're also saying let's do it. Don't put that money into the 2005 budget you're going to bet on these big capitalists, so make sure that this money is sent to the people. For the people are in distress now, not the oligarchs, they are not suffering, they are profiting annually. Even you know, Hodorkowski is in prison in Russia, raising his capital. That's exactly what we have. Even if they're in jail, their capital is growing. This is the first thing we can say in this regard. Not give to oligarchs, but give the people a minimum wage, a minimum pension, not less than the subsistence minimum. Second. To stop privatization. Finally, to provide support to the domestic producer of goods and services, which the oligarchs and their servants are often talking about here in the Supreme Council, but do nothing because they benefit from this situation. I therefore stress, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, and proposes to unite our people, to ensure that all sectors of workers and even small and medium-sized entrepreneurs remove the oligarchs from power in these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u39	Andrew School, please. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u40	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I would like first of all to highlight two aspects. Aspect first. See how the propaganda work takes place in these elections. Yanukovich retired. Yeah? I mean, the Yanukovich government. When we're discussing bills that specifically raise pensions and not pay any extras, the fees that are now being distributed before the elections and end exactly one month after the election race is over. There's nothing in the government's bed but water, there's no government officer. No government officer. You can imagine what the situation is in Parliament, when Parliament is itself by its laws, see, three laws of the MPs. I'd like us here, in this room, to take the Turkish bill as a basis, and we'll all work together, we'll vote. I would insist that one of the bills be voted on as a whole. But I think we're going to take it as a basis, we're going to work out what we're going to do as soon as we can for people to get a real pension. On the other hand, I'd like to pay attention to the absence of government factions in this room. That's about 100 people, people who are now totally illegally getting paid. I'm offering a very good way out -- filling up the Retirement Fund. Take their salary, which is the order of a million dollars a month, and count it into the Pension Fund. Similarly, the Pension Fund can be replenished legally, not by illegal tools offered by the Cabinet of Ministers. The other one. If we had a normal prosecutor’s office in Ukraine, we would have had a long history of mismanagement of the State Pension Fund. Without a decision of the Supreme Council, the government can't move a penny, nor a drop in the Pension Fund, nor release it to circulation and profit, because the only public fund manager is the people and their legitimate representatives in Parliament, which is us. And now, sending out a little warning about your retirement being small, but as Prime Minister, I'm adding 30 or 40 bracelets to each postman, and the pensioner, getting this, should be thanking the current Prime Minister by giving him votes. But believe me, you know what's wrong with arithmetic is 11 million. Eight million pensioners live in western Ukraine. And believe me, you won't be able to buy them for this tax. These people have gone through enough serious trials, enough serious obstacles to their lives, and enough fools have come across in their lives to distinguish the wise from the less intelligent. So it was also a mistake for you to take this step. But the mistake of this step may be that if you lie to your own people, you can rob them and the Supreme Council will be on guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u41	Yes, Mikola Rudzkowski, please. Mobilize, we'll finish the discussion, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, the situation we faced with the so - called pension reform stressed that no one was satisfied after this pension reform. On the one hand, a law has been passed that does not give people a chance, even those who have worked for 50 years, to receive a decent salary. And those officials who worked five to seven years in the Tax Inspectorate get one and a half thousand dollars. There is a violent injustice. And so there are bills that raise the minimum wage and in this part a minimum pension to the minimum wage. This is the right approach, because the situation can't be normal in the state when we're paying a pension of 150 dollars, but we're demanding that we pay community services for 300. Both our position and our factions, the socialists, and Alexander Alexander Moroz’s position is not only to establish a minimum pension at the minimum of living, but to eliminate the balance so that people will be paid for their age of work, under the conditions of work, to receive adequate pay and disability, and so on and so forth. You can't compare everyone and make them the same. By adopting this law, the second step is to establish a legal framework for the elimination of the balance. People have to work hard to get a pension, it's the position of socialists and Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. The following question. There's a great danger that that minimum subsistence minimum of 432 that we voted for will be pledged by the President, that's understandable. So I'm addressing you people's deputies: let's still give these laws to us, to usher in 432, and I'm turning to the electorate: and you vote for President Alexander Moroz, Alexander Moroz will never veto the minimum wage, the minimum wage and the minimum pension of 432. There'll be others, I can't say anything for them. And finally, let me talk to my Communist colleagues: let's not look at our different programs, let's unite, let's support the only left candidate, Alexander Alexander Moroz, and together we'll build socialism with a European face and compete with the right people at the level of ideas, because they're competing with each other at the cost of the election race. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u43	Yes, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please, one minute. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u44	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! These bills must no doubt be adopted. They say they're knocking at Parliament's door, and we have to open this door. Parliament is now carrying out its legislative function. In this regard, I would like to pay attention to three points. First. Retirement issues are addressed, not by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, but by the laws of the Supreme Council. The use of state budget funds, the use of pension funds is a matter that falls within the competence of the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers cannot solve them on its own. We are now introducing a solution to pension reform issues in the legislative field. One second. It's not about pension payments, it's about increasing the pension rate to the minimum of living. This is the only correct and correct question that Parliament is now asking: to raise pension insurance to the minimum of living. And the third moment. On the one hand, there is a need to eliminate the balance in pension insurance and, on the other hand, excessive breaks, unjustified pension gaps. And then we're going to ask that question on the right rails. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, discussion and consideration of the matter have been completed. Please prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal, the honourable colleagues, I remind you, to adopt all four bills as a basis. I will put them to the vote in order to come and discuss them. The draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance is put to the vote as part of the establishment of the minimum age pension. Registration number 4600, the author is the national deputy of Turkey. Please vote. [[16:59:44]] For 240 Decision taken. Let's take a vote. Attention, please. - a draft law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". Registration number 4600-1. The author is the national deputy of Kulczynski. Please vote. [[17:00:21]] For 246 Decision taken. It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". Registration number 4600-2. The author is national deputy Cibenko Petar Stepanović. Please vote. [[17:00:58]] For 246 Decision taken. It is on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance. Registration number 5271. The author is National Deputy Igor Ostas. Please vote. [[17:01:32]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider three draft laws in a repetitive first reading. For reasons, please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u46	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I think, given that we accept such important bills by consensus, it might be appropriate to prepare amendments to the Constitution to reduce the exchange of parliament to 250 people, because the last days are 247 people to the Supreme Council. And we're successfully adopting the right laws. And the factions of the majority, let them work outside Parliament forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! Three drafts for re-reading. A draft law on recognition has been announced for consideration in such a way as to lose the validity of the Ukrainian Act on the Introduction of a Moratorium to Forced Realisation of Property. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment, is invited to speak. Dear colleagues! I remind you that this is a rereading of the first reading, we need to briefly discuss this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! National Deputy Gurenco, Communist faction. What is it? The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment at the meeting of 22.09 of the current year has considered the draft Ukrainian Recognition Act, which has lost its validity, and note the Act on the Introduction of Moratoriums introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the question of preparing for the re-reading of the one-named project introduced by the National Bank of Ukraine. These bills are the same as the contents of the proposal to recognize that the Ukrainian Act on the Introduction of a Moratorium on Forced Realisation of Property has become invalid. In doing so, a bill introduced by the National Bank of Ukraine following the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in February 2003 was sent for re-reading. Since the content of the bill is in one sentence, namely, to recognize that the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property has become invalid, it is essentially impossible to redraft. So it's suggested that the committee, to adopt the draft law on recognition in such a way that it became invalid, the Ukrainian Act on the Introduction of a Moratorium on Forced Realization of Property, is number 2216-1 of 22.08.2004. The bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the same vein, it is proposed that the Supreme Council's decision to re-read the draft Ukrainian Law on Recognition be repealed by the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. So the point is that the enforcement of property is proposed to be cancelled Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u49	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss us? Please, Yavorowski, microphone. Dear colleagues, we're following a reduced procedure. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u50	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block Dear colleagues, we are well aware that this short bill is behind us. I'm just going to use a little trim to remind you of what happened in the state before this moratorium was adopted. You know that. They confiscated cars or customs, or they accounted for, let's say, some kind of debt and sold to their people who were terrible abusers around it. Similarly, you know that during the period of inflation huge numbers of people have built, say, their houses there, and so on, which were then sold for nothing. I'm leading this to what I think, and we've talked about this in our faction of Victor Yushchenka, "Our Ukraine," we think that taking off this moratorium, that is, removing this restriction today under this authority is absolutely unacceptable. And we will not vote and we will not support this bill, let no one insult us. We believe that this moratorium can only be removed after the presidential election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u51	Dear colleagues. Boris Bespali Manchulenka. Then Chernewsky will have the word, then the Black. I can see it, I can see it. Manchulenco microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u52	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Head, dear colleagues. The question is serious enough. First, on the one hand, it's as if the introduction of such a moratorium is contrary to the principles of market economy, but it's in normal societies where the laws of the economic market really work. Unfortunately, the situation is quite different. Because power creates this mode of functioning of the economy when the small oligarchs manage virtually all of Ukraine's crude domestic product, while the main mass of the people cannot influence the situation. So we don't have an economic market in the full sense of that word. And so from the realities I've just mentioned, it would be like death for us if we gave up such a moratorium. Authorities force bankruptcy on businesses that are attractive and then buy off such businesses for no price. In other cases, the value of the core funds is underestimated, and once again, these companies are buying up people who need power, and then they share with the government these funds, including allocating money for the election campaign to presidential candidates. Therefore, according to the above arguments, Victor Yushchenka’s Block believes that it would be premature and inappropriate to give up the moratorium on the enforcement of property. In this way, we will be able to preserve at least other objects that have not yet been adopted and that money has not been stolen from our people, and these objects will be able to work for the welfare of a Ukrainian person. So, Your Honor, my fellow Members, I urge you to take this issue seriously and not to give a single vote in order to cancel the moratorium on enforcement. Of course, it is convenient for today’s Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because those populist promises issued by the Prime Minister of Ukraine require two more State budgets to cover in any way the holes that are about to be formed in the government execution and account for the structures that are now giving money to the pre-election campaign. They need to cancel this moratorium. And our business as representatives of the people, as members of parliament, who advocate the interests of the common man, is not to allow this moratorium to be lifted. So Victor Yushchenka's block is against cancelling the moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u53	Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u54	Dear national MPs, the point is. The imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property was necessary. It was Parliament's reaction to the economic situation. In the economy, countless objects were subject to artificial bankruptcy, realization, privatization, and costless theft. And Parliament responded to this situation. In particular, a notorious structure was created in the Ministry of Justice, the Crossbowst, which engaged in entrepreneurial activities and which played on these hands. There were other government structures, there were mechanisms to do this. In particular, the oligarchs planted them on the financial flows of their people and directed them into their pockets. Parliament responded. In my opinion, the question has already been raised with the moratorium. If the situation in the economy were normal, if the authorities had responded adequately, if mechanisms had been put in place to provide for them, they would have made it impossible to steal state property. That's why we could vote, but because it wasn't created and there's still room for looting, so I don't think Parliament can vote today to eliminate the moratorium. I have a hand that's going to vote yes, but I'm still holding it down and I'm not going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u55	Yes, Stepan Cloud, then Valentina Seminyuk. Stephen Cloud's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u56	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! It is not easy that this bill has now appeared in the Supreme Council, it is clearly a lobbyist bill in the interests of the criminal and oligarchic mafia, which I want to use to the advantage of the illegalities that are now being created in the state, so that by the time the new President takes over his powers, it will be Victor Yushchenko, to seize everything that can be captured, to plunder. Such a law could be adopted if we had a legal mechanism in place. In today's conditions, this is absolutely unacceptable, and it's good that today we don't have a problem with the attitude of criminal oligarchs in the Supreme Council, and I hope this bill doesn't come today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u57	Yes, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u58	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners! First of all, I want to say why this document was accepted: it was the reaction of the Parliament of that state property, which is vital in order for us in society to be able to ensure, first of all, the work of those enterprises that still provide jobs, wages and so on. Such a moratorium is necessary today, based on two factors: privatization, more loyally, leading businesses to fictitious bankruptcy. There are strategic targets, objects that are economically important today. And the moratorium allows, first of all, the state itself to raise those strategically appointed enterprises through the appropriate infusion that we sometimes accept here in the session hall. So canceling the moratorium means opening a gateway to privatize the same Turboatum we turned on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u59	The position is clear. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for your attention right now. These bills have been concluded. So I'm going to put it this way: on the adoption of the draft Law, registration number 2216, on the recognition that the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property has become invalid. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:16:02]] For two. Against 72. The rest-- held up. The bill was rejected. I now put to the vote, honourable colleagues: on the adoption as the basis of the draft law on recognition of such that it has become invalid, the Act of Ukraine on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property, registration number 2216-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:16:41]] For-0 Against 79. Bills are rejected. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the right to information is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Mikola Tomenko. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, or more specifically the amendment to the Civil Code, is a requirement of an absolute majority of both journalistic organizations and journalists who are concerned about a whole range of new norms that are being interpreted ambiguously and are now the result of the discovery of court cases. First of all, it is article 277, which introduced a new term for negative information in the Civil Code. Since no legislative act interprets what negative information is, the norm of the Civil Code is negative information about a person, is unreliable, is dangerous and can be used against journalists, and we already have several such lawsuits and are having discussions about how to decipher what "negative information" is. There are a lot of complaints, and so Tomenko, Artemenko, Gmira, Matviyczuk, the author’s team, also drew attention to 302 articles of the Civil Code, as never before, especially during the presidential election campaign. Today, it allows officials to be completely irresponsible in their claims. Today, part 3 of article 302 reads as follows: “It is considered that the information given to the official in the performance of his duties, as well as the information contained there, is reliable.” Imagine the situation. For example, if this rule of law goes away, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, as Prime Minister, said that he would soon introduce dual citizenship into the country. For example, acting President Leonid Kuchma said that this statement was absurd and he did not share it. Former President Leonid Krawchuk said that it was a pre-election campaign and that such a statement should not be believed. I have a question -- what about those people in the eastern areas that are working today in Russia? Who do they trust? Because according to the status of dual citizenship, people who have dual citizenship in Russia will actually be in the territory of, say, Russia will be serving in Russia. They can be trusted by the Prime Minister's official, the President's official or the official of one of the leaders of the SPDU faction. So when we consult with lawyers, we offer a more accurate formulation, which, on the one hand, enables individuals who disseminate information from official sources to be able to verify its authenticity, but on the other hand, the officials themselves who are present. bear greater responsibility and have no such presumption of innocence in publishing information. I'm a few more little things. I think Mr Musiak will report the committee's comments, I'd like to support you in the first reading, and we'll continue to work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u61	Thank you. He is invited to report to Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The committee has considered this bill, and we turn to it for a second time, taking into account our proposals. Remember, there was a discussion here in May, and not all of these suggestions are taken into account, of course, so when we work on them, we will editably adjust them with the authors. But it should be borne in mind that such changes are, in fact, now necessary. It is necessary to make the provisions of the Civil Code and the Information Act consistent with each other and the relevant provisions of the Civil Code, some inaccurate, vague wording in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. But there are situations that, in my view and in the view of the committee, are not sufficiently weighed. When it comes to the fact that, for example, it is necessary to be able to protect a person’s right to share information about the elements of life only in relation to relatives and others to rule out, we believe, narrows down the possibility of protecting the rights of such persons. When speech goes back to being very interesting and, I think, a very timely proposal for a new formulation on article 302 on how to be with information distributed by authorities and local self-government. Whether the person who distributes such information when it is received from these subjects should not answer, indeed. But at the same time, we need to preserve the presumption that such information is reliable, and this person does not respond because it is considered credible until proven otherwise. That's why the Committee proposes to adopt this bill in the first reading and I think we will bring it into line with our vision and with the requirements of existing legislation and the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, let's have a discussion, according to the shorter procedure. Puzakov Vladimir, get ready for Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u64	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Using this rostrum in the preparation and conduct of the electoral campaign, I want to speak to journalists, because in the holding of free and fair elections without your active participation in the electoral process, it is impossible for Ukrainian citizens to have the right to choose the head of state, because none of the candidates are able to meet with 36 million voters and none of the candidates without the help of a journalist can bring their truth to the people. Today, the journalist’s voice depends on the future of the country. At a tense time in the pre-election race, people want to know the true ratings of their candidates, but they won't know, and that's no doubt because manipulation and propaganda is the style of the work of today's Presidential Administration. Sadly, however, journalists today are still unable to bring the truth to people. The policy of suppressing freedom of speech harms the transparency and openness of the Ukrainian authorities, improving their effectiveness among the people. Today’s information protects, not the state, but the personal people who do harm to national interests. The pressure on the media is a strategy of power, it's a consistent position of power, and this pressure is increasing, it's getting more cynical and sharper. With regard to information, the circle is closed in Ukraine. First, we need to implement the principle of not being able to say. Then, when the word was spoken, there was nothing to be heard. And finally, if you did hear it, give the right response. This is the freedom of speech in Ukraine. One way out of this situation, noted Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, is to change power, change the system. If we don't, we're going to have a closed circle every day and every step of the way. Everything that is happening in the country today is convincingly evidence that a company is being implemented in the country, which can be called a controlled crisis. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, speaking to every journalist, says: “Remember, it’s you, not the candidate or the party or the agitators, who make the choice of millions of people on October 31st, because it’s you that journalists listen to and read millions, confide in their decisions, and listen to you by giving their votes. Your voice is the most important, respect yourself, and highly esteem the professional dignity of a journalist, not an orderly pianist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u65	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u66	5th District, Mironenko, Communist faction. The bill clarified certain provisions and helped to ensure that not only a journalist, as was said here, but also any citizen was able to protect honour, dignity, unless claims were made to him because he published or somehow sounded information provided by public or public authorities, official bodies, authorities. I would like to point out that this will also help the courts, which are, in fact, not a separate branch of power, but a powerless, often even a powerless addition to the executive branch and are doing what is necessary for the executive branch. And we need to pay attention to this and adopt appropriate laws to ensure that the judiciary is truly independent. We need to pay attention to the fact that if we had a popular court in socialism. It is clear to all that it is not only a people’s court but even a formal one. The word "people" doesn't ring a bell. For those Democrats and nationalists who called for the elimination of socialism and union sought to establish capitalism, they did not need the people at all. And the word “democracy” is used only to mislead, deceive people. For what democracy can be like when people are now powerless. Democracy is the power of the people. And the people are not dispossessed, and only the oligarchs, the great capitalists and those who follow the so-called rating candidates, are in power. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Communist faction will support the bill in its first reading. But please note that the Ukrainian State has now become, in fact, a powerful formation to protect the interests of the major capitalists, called oligarchs. And the people and the public ideals. And we will do nothing with you in this situation unless we change the power itself, unless we replace capitalist power with socialist power. This can be done only by electing the representative of the people by President Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko, or by providing the majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Communists. Only then will laws be passed for the benefit of the people, only then will the courts decide for the sake of law, justice and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u67	Vladimir Yavorowski. Then Manchulenko instead of Bespalogo. The last speaker will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u68	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, our constituencies. And it seems to me that this bill just happily fits into our attempts to improve this fragile, yet very primitive, but still Ukrainian democracy. This product is in the form of a bill and in the form of amendments to the Civil Code. This is the product of our committee, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. I know him very well and perfectly, and I must say that here both Musiak and my other colleagues have spoken, indeed, all these clarifications are very important and very necessary. And that we change the right to privacy and family life to the right to privacy and family life, as well as other details, is very important, and they make the protection of human rights, the protection of information about our personal lives powerful. I'm very, very pleased with the bill. I just want to say one example, using what's here, is Ivan Fedorovich Durrech -- my friend and my colleague -- I just want to remind you: somewhere in the early 1990s, someone made such a fake, as if Dmitry Pavličko, John Drach and Vladimir Yavorowski were writing some kind of letter to Moscow, someone like that, Andropov or something -- it was all sewn with white threads. We've referred all of this to the courts. The court found very easily and simply that there was never any letter in nature, it was simply fabricated by our political opponents. And the Staroki court has made a very clear statement: The newspaper that published this is sorry, and this is not to be distributed. However, to this day someone is spinning there and so forth. Even the fine speaker of today's Vladimir Mikhailovich used it in his work, in fact, very delicately, how he can do it. As a result, I am absolutely convinced that we should do so today. On the one hand, let's say today we should know all about the presidential candidates. I'm curious to know what kind of gang Janukovic belonged to when he was a young man, and it's very important to me, maybe it's a beautiful gang that supported, let's say, democracy and all that. We need to know everything about these people, and at the same time, we need to be able to protect the absolute protection of our personal life with you. In this bill all these things are, and I ask him to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u69	George Manchulenko. Microphone, please, Manchulenko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u70	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear head, dear fellows! You see what's happening around us today if you take the central channels. It's the total zombie of our citizens, it's the upside-down of what's actually going on in Ukrainian society. To put it bluntly, it's a complete exaggeration of the facts that are now taking place during the presidential election campaign. And people should have reliable information about what is happening in our country. Because the situation is that many of our citizens, unfortunately, cannot subscribe to a newspaper, usually an opposition newspaper, where we can read the truth about what is happening to us, and often use central television channels, thinking that we can hear the right word. And unfortunately, there's virtually no true word there, because the policy of directing these TV channels is not journalists, there's an absolute majority of decent journalists -- the policy of directing these channels is to be in a dance floor in the current power. You will see what is now going on around the Fifth Channel, the repression that is taking place with regard to journalists who are professionally carrying out their duties and bringing the truth to people as it is today. They're trying to block the accounts of this channel, take out the licenses. Thus, millions of citizens who watch this television channel are deprived of the right to receive information, the information is true. And at the same time, the authorities and the President of Ukraine, as a grant of compliance with the Constitution, remain silent, closes their eyes to what is going on, and does not take any steps to stop this vachanal, so that people can get the right information to stop the rocking of the Ukrainian boat, to stop the burning of inter-religious, inter-religious hostility and inter-regional hostility. This is beginning to threaten Ukraine’s national security. But the guarantor is silent because he's probably doing well. But he had not long left to be well - benevolent. Therefore, I believe that the standards offered by my colleague Tomenko in order to order information for our citizens are worthy of respect. If we move in that direction, we can build a normal legal field so that our people, our electorates, our citizens can get the right information -- what they should be provided by the Constitution. And Victor Yushchenka's and Victor Yushchenko's block is in exactly such positions and after his victory, and that's going to happen very quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u71	Yes, thank you. Vitaly Shibko with motive. A nigger with a motive then. And Kirilchuk with motive. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. A fast, socialist faction of Ukraine, Dniproperty. I want to start with an example, my dear colleagues. There was an election campaign in 1999, and you remember well when one lawyer, Sergei Salov, from Donetskina, was stranded before. Five years just because he took the paper, and there was false information in the paper about one of the presidential candidates. And when he took the newspaper into his hands and went to a neighbor, it was a reason to accuse him of false information. I'll tell you that at the time, the Donetsk court just drained the need to accuse a person and give him a proper term. Then we stood up for his abilities and he was not deprived of his will. But it's still behind him. I think this proposal is necessary, it is necessary, and with this help, we will prevent such distress.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u73	Yes, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u74	Vladimir Cherniak, Viktor Yushchenk's faction. Dear colleagues, the bill deserves support. In fact, it has a great novelty and, I think, we will now vote by the newly formed majority present in this room. In Ukraine there is a guided freedom of speech based on misinformation, manipulation, and falsification. And Parliament's task is to put an end to this in order to put legislative obstacles on this path. There's a distorted display of the election campaign. We must also put an end to this. And the adoption of this law will contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u75	Eugene Kirilchuk. Karnauh's last of his motives. Eugene Kirilchuk and Karnauh, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a direct appeal to you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have good practice in the Supreme Council. That national MP who doesn't register or take part in the work of the Supreme Council and the committee, his accountants don't charge him a salary. We've got about a hundred and a half deputies in the last two riots. That's a serious amount of money. I'm proposing that we assign a task to the regulatory committee to prepare for tomorrow's decision to send saved money to orphans in the boarding house. This will be a serious help to them. Because it's a big sin to pay for such sabotage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u77	Mikola Karnauh, please. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Of course, every citizen should have the right to information. So I would like to inform people that in government, in every ministry, and in every committee, there is the first Deputy Minister in liaison with the Supreme Council. Let's ask, what do these darmoids get money for? Why do they have such a bad relationship with the Supreme Council? Vladimir Mikhailovich, make sure you don't come to us, and please contact the head of government to have all these people here tomorrow to work for Ukraine, for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code has been discussed. [[on the right to information]] The committee's proposal is to take the project as a basis. I'm putting this motion to a vote. That is, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine, registration number 3547. [[on the right to information]] Please vote. [[17:40:19]] For 243 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Order of Appointment of the Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine is being announced for consideration and the termination of their powers. [[re-read]] We have already considered this bill in detail. Please, very briefly. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the national MPs during the discussion, the subject is well known, I understand, under certain circumstances, as you know, we didn't get a few votes in the discussion. I'm going to say that the minor, inconsequential legal warnings that we've had, we've corrected on the committee, and I think there are no people here in the session hall and outside the session hall who are convinced that state television and radio should be built on those principles to influence both society and parliament not only to make financial decisions, because today we're taking them. By the way, I'm going to inform you that our committee has responded with understanding about increasing funding and creating copyrighted cultural social programs for state television and radio. All that remains is to work out those controls that would allow both economic and political, political, I mean the parliamentary nature of the plan, to influence information policy in Ukraine, not to promote international hostility, but to promote values that are socially significant and important. I'll bring you one fact. You know that 19 of us worked actively in the Supreme Council, adopted an extremely important document on the establishment of a living minimum, a series of other bills. We analyzed what the National Television said. And as much as I influence it today, I don't blame journalists, because it's influenced by other structures. The official program of the First National Program begins. The cost of living will be 432 dollars next year. The law applicable today is in the Head of the Supreme Council. At the same time, however, Stepan Gavrish stated that the legislative process in the country was blocked, and Parliament could not work constructively. Next, seven references are made to the name Gavrish, four synchronous Havrish, one Shurma, one Zubanov synchron, and taken from the context of the statement of the Supreme Council of Lithuania. This is information about our 19-number work. I think it's not the most important thing in the history of this bill, but it's a subjective moment that also gives us reason to talk about the fact that informational state policy on those channels created by the country, financed by that country from the budget, should lead a policy that does not sow disunity, but also promotes things of unity, solidarity, and illuminated Parliament's work in the way it works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, we discussed this bill in detail. Let's make a decision now. Is there no objection? Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on the order of appointment of heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the termination of their powers, registration number 5459-D. Please vote. [[17:44:26]] For 246 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, with motives, Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u82	I realized that we had voted in the first reading. The Committee's proposal as a whole, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u83	I put to the vote your proposal for acceptance as a basis and generally as a law. It's been voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u84	All right, I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich. No comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u85	Yes, the law has been passed. Dear colleagues, we need to include, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, in the agenda and decide on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act on the term of office of the responsible authorities in the field of communication. These are registration numbers 6193, 6193-1. I'm putting this motion to a vote. About the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. Please vote. About the turn-on. And then, if we include it, we'll make decisions. About getting into the daytime. [[17:45:48]] For 243 Questions are included in the agenda. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act on the term of office of the responsible authorities in the field of communications is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, I represent the position here of two committees - the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. Two national deputies representing this committee, Valérie Desertenko and Yuri Lucenko, under certain circumstances, were unable to speak today and handed this right over to me. What is it? Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly debated the need for order in such a complex area as regulation of the telecommunications market and regulation of the radio market. The Supreme Council, you know, passed the Telecommunications Act and the Radio Frequency Resource. Because of the various circumstances to which I do not return, the law has stolen or coexisted the two standards that today have created chaos in the provision of radio control services. The law provides that licences for telecommunications services and for use of radio frequency should be given to the National Communications Regulation Commission at the same time. At the same time, we have a rule in Transitional Positions that by regulating the radio frequency, and more precisely, the radio broadcast is now carrying out a unified structure called Mintranslink. So it turns out that whoever works today at the same time has to get two permits in two different structures. Our analysis, both our committee and the Desert Woman Committee, shows that there are extremely big problems today with the activities of the relevant business structures of the Mintransvescu, and this creates serious problems in understanding the principles of activity in this market. The proposal of our bill, which is supported, practically, by the deputies signed by all factions, is a technological bill that gives a substantial, qualitative impetus to this market, which means that in this law we from the Transitional Regulations clean up 1 January 2006 and put on 1 January 2005 and thus, the National Communications Regulatory Commission can issue frequencies, regulate markets and telecommunications, and regulate radio frequencies. And operators won't be licensed in two different structures and run between the officials of these two structures. Therefore, the correction of January 1, 2005, we believe, will lead not only to improving the market situation but also to serious budget inflows. So the proposal of both committees is to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mikola Tomenko reported on the position of two committees. True, we have a second project here called Oleg Yuhnowski. Is there an Oleg Yukhnowsky? None. Talk to you. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u88	I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Since there's another similar bill registered, Oleg Yuhnowski -- I forgot to say because I haven't seen it in a long time, a deputy of this, I mean, the position of our two committees is negative, the conclusion of our expert management is just as negative, because it's about, on the contrary, transferring the date to the year ahead and actually monopolizing the activity in this area of the Mintransves, which we think would be even more damaging to the situation in this market. So both committees are proposing to support the bill that I mentioned and not vote down or reject the Yukhnowsky bill, Oleg Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand the suggestions? Who insists on performing? May I have your attention, fellow officers? That's why I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act (for the term of office of the responsible authorities in the field of communication). Registration number 6193, author of the national MP Lucenko. Please vote. [[17:50:55]] For 248 Dear colleagues, one minute! Then we don't vote for the second project anymore. There was a proposal to vote in general. Who has the warning? Then I put to the vote due to the absence of warnings: the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act, as a whole, as a law, registration number 6193. Please vote. [[17:51:38]] For 249 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code is being announced for consideration. From the committee, please. Yeah, we'll keep working for 15 minutes if there's no warning. Dear colleagues, from the committee. Who Is From the Committee? Moisik, please, Volodymyr Romanovich. Well, dear fellows, I can now read out the committee's decision. The Committee decided to approve this bill and to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of its consideration in the first reading, to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend articles 1 and 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What Are the Reasons? You don't? Please, Mikola Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! This is an important law, and you can see that the author is a government, or subject. Therefore, I do not consider the absence of a government, and we do not have the right to consider this law, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please ask the Prime Minister to be present at the meeting of the Supreme Council, because the Cabinet of Ministers is accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, this bill has been in the Supreme Council since January 29, 2004. This is the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if a team doesn't come to the government, we have to help them and show that Parliament works, no matter what. Roast, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that the committee of profile is proposing to us to enact this law in general, taking into account the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u94	In order that there is no basis for the next Presidential veto, I propose that it be accepted in the first reading, because the Scientific and Experimental Authority is not a subject of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u95	I think it's because you have a warning, we can't take it as a whole, we can take it as a basis. It's perfectly logical. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Criminal Enforcement Code. [[Registration number 5049]] Please vote. [[17:54:57]] For 243 Decision taken. The point is, the committee is offering to consider. He suggests that we consider and accept it as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] And he wrote it all down here, it's technically working, Widow of Gennady Josephovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! The government is not really represented in the government’s bed, but the government is keeping a close eye on what is going on in the Supreme Council. And individual government officials come up to us and they're aspiring to adopt or not to adopt this bill. As far as I can tell, the profile committee has ruled out the project. I'm not saying it's the right help, but there's a colossal. The functions that the amendment relies on the Ministry of Internal Affairs now fall under the Department of Execution. It is the employment of those released from prison to provide them with appropriate assistance. So, I think it would be the right decision to make, I kept quiet, I didn't want to influence it, the right decision was to make it as a basis. Let the committees handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u97	Thank you. I think, dear colleagues, we agree with Gennady Josephovich. We took it as a foundation. And as the committee refines it, we will accept it as a whole. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the adaptation of persons who have been punished]] Yes. From the committee. Of course not from the government. The committee considered the bill, the honourable colleagues, and decided to reject the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. But according to the rules, I'm going to put the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law. That's why I'm asking for your attention! A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, registration number 5050. [[on the adaptation of persons who have been punished]] Vote please! [[17:57:55]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Maybe then put to the vote one more time. To save regulations? I am voting on draft Law No. 5050 to amend some Ukrainian legislation for re-reading. [[on the adaptation of persons who have been punished]] Please vote. [[17:58:34]] For 216 Again, huh? All right, fellow Members, I'm once again putting your request to vote for a return to read the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation, registration number 5050. [[on the adaptation of persons who have been punished]] Please vote. [[17:59:11]] For 231 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the Rejection of Bills, which have lost its relevance and the return of draft laws, is being announced for consideration. There is a draft regulation proposed by the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities to reject a number of draft laws that have become obsolete. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decision on the rejection of bills that have lost the relevance and return of draft bills to work. Please vote. [[18:00:07]] For 234 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is being announced for consideration. [[on the right to use the land]] These are the National Deputys of Czernovetský, Turkinov. From the committee, please, what position? Ivan Fedorovich Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Committee position to support Bills 5354, 5354-1. There's a call from church leaders, there's an appeal by the director of the Freedom Institute to support these bills. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u99	Is there no objection to putting it to a vote? Who, who? It's a motive manchulenko, not a procedure. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewecka District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka Block. Dear friends, there is no doubt that the bill is relevant and important, it needs to be supported if we want church communities, people who believe to feel worthy and full-fledged hosts. The only thing that reminds me in this situation is that Janukovic's team is now so divided that it almost forces the clergy and the parishioners to campaign for their unique candidacy, that is, Victor Yanukovic's candidacy. And I'm very sorry in this situation that it's the kind of way that they want to get their followers. And I feel uncomfortably when there is no government bed on the left, no conductor, because, you know, the parliamentary room can't respond adequately, it can't handle its powers if it wants the government. In general, the bill must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal in the order of order of order of the bill. On the adoption of the draft Law, registration number 5354, amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the right to use land. Please vote. [[18:02:57]] For-149 There was no decision. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 87, “Ukraine” - 0, “Communist faction 0, “Urban” - 0, “Urban” - 0, “Urban” - 0, “National Agrarian Party” - 19, “SPU - 2,” - 1, “Timoshenko” - 13, “Soyuz” - 0, “Urban” - 0, “Centre” - 13, “NDP” - 4, “Deminicatives” - 0, “O” - 11. I am voting on a bill, registration number 5354-1, amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the right to use land as a basis. Author of project Alexander Turchinov. [[18:03:54]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Then I am voting for the re-reading of the drafts of these two laws, in accordance with the Rules. Please vote. [[18:04:21]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Dear colleagues, we have two more draft laws here that apply to the Chernobyls. Why don't we take a look at them? Okay. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is being considered. Our reporters are Kosinov, Dragnibok, and Matviyenko. Please. All right, let's have the Dragnibok show, then Kosinov. Please, Oleg Pullibok. Briefly, please, essentially, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u102	Oleg Tuggnibok, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the purpose of Law 4148 is, firstly, a clear recognition of the status of persons born after April 26, 1986, who have the status of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster when they reached adulthood. Second, it is the right of these citizens to establish a causal link between the deterioration of health and disability and the Chernobyl disaster. And thirdly, giving more structure to the Ukrainian law on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. In fact, today, article 27, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, defines the category of persons who have the status of children affected by the accident. However, when these children reach adulthood, their status becomes indeterminate, since they are not subject to any category of victims defined by the law. In general, I would like to address our charitable government and Prime Minister Janukovic, who is now travelling throughout the country and making promises to the right-to-left, arguing that once he becomes president, all these issues will be resolved. Notice the Chernobylites, the poor people who are in fact a state today -- not a state, but this bad government that doesn't want to pay proper attention to them -- is simply rejecting this category. You can imagine these kids that I'm talking about right now, who are 18 years old, making up for schoolchildren today, they're going to have three 30-dollar bracelets. Mr. Yanukovich, three 30-piece bracelets! Seven Helps Need Parents to Get Three bracelets of 30 Money! This is a disgrace! There can be no such thing. And we just don't believe you, either because you're traveling all over Ukraine right now. And that's why I'm going to Parliament today, actually the only government body that's in Ukraine today, an organ that's trying at the state level to identify all these issues and settle all these issues. Lost this category, it's lost somewhere. It is not settled by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so let's right now at the legislative level settle this injustice so it doesn't have to be that a child under the age of 18 -- he has the benefits, he has the status of Chernobyl, and here -- he's 18 years old -- all of it, he's no longer affected by the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill and that will be fair. And to the Yanks and to that government that is not actually coming to the Supreme Council today and yesterday and tomorrow they will not come, it is simply their demonstration and contempt not only for Ukrainian citizens, but especially for the Chernobyls that we have to honor and pay for these benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u103	Please refer to Bill 2373.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u104	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The project provides for changes to only one article of the Ukrainian law, namely, article 26 of the benefit, which is provided for in paragraph 26 of this article, to the underage children of citizens assigned to the 1st category. It should be noted that a valid rule of law confers a right on the minor children of deceased citizens who are assigned to 1, 2 and 3 categories whose death is related to the Chernobyl disaster, as well as to children with disabilities associated with the Chernobyl disaster. [[Part 2 Articles 20, 21, 22]] Dear National Deputies! We propose to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u105	Thank you. Mikola Haritonovich, position of committee. Microphone, please turn it on. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u106	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster has reviewed all three bills and proposes to adopt Bill 2373 as a basis. The Committee on Science and Education, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, also recommends that it be accepted as a basis. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill and proposes to put it into effect on January 1, 2006. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u107	Dear colleagues! They're demanding a statement. Please, who needs to speak? They signed up for the performance. One minute. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko. They signed up for the performance. They'll come out, then there'll be motives. All right, everybody, come on in. Gurenko's microphone, please. Calm down, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u108	Dear colleagues! I want to urge everyone to stop speculating on the Chernobyl issue. Let's vote. I've been a Chernobyl since April of 1986. And here I see a bunch of niggers who didn't even come up into the world. Let's vote, time is coming. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u109	I ask very briefly. Victor Mironenko. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u110	Next, the Government is currently not implementing legislation on Chernobyl. Even the courts decide on the ground for recovery and so on. The trail has to be paid for. On first reading, however, the court takes a decision, but the authorities are doing everything they can to ensure that even the Court of Appeal annuls the decision. We must draw attention to the immoral and frightening policies of the Government. And respectable compatriots, you have to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u111	Thank you. Written by Yavorowski. What can I do? Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, this is our right and Stanislave Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u113	Let's talk essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u114	Nobody likes you here anymore, but it's our right, and it's really a subject that's not out of date, and I definitely disagree with you. I'm just like you, and we worked with you on this committee, and we ran the first drafts, and we made the first announcement about Chernobyl with you. But this topic for Ukraine is not a transit theme, it's a topic that can't be silenced in any way. We all know it's pain, it's disease, it's a blow to the genetic roots of our nation a few decades in advance. Because of what we are doing today, people need to know what we are doing and what we are doing. Because we really are. When we put it in place, I was the chairman of the committee, then it was called the Chernobyl commission, now it's gone, we were preparing these laws and defending them from this rostrum. But of course, today they need some clarifications there and so forth. I certainly want this to sound out of this rostrum and for people to know this: Today we have a huge army of liars who have never smelled this air and never been in this zone. They're all the bosses who had the seals that had the ability to mark their papers and they're doing the right thing today. They come to these Chernobyl committees, they have shipping, they have accounting help -- all of what we put in these bills. And they're getting these documents in a flash. And those people, those really colospovian drivers who were given dozens of eggs and half a year and said, "Go on, and we'll figure it out, they can't get these certificates until today." This is why it is a subject. And I want them to speak from this public rostrum. It is necessary to clean up, since Ukraine will not draw these counterfeiters, more of them than the Chernobyls today, and they receive all the benefits. And this private guy somewhere in the dark, he's already forgotten that he owns these benefits. As a result, I am convinced that we must do so. And today the Chernobylers are standing here, they're here, and they're anxious to see what we can do, we'll improve the law, or we won't improve it. It is possible for these children today who were born in this terrible spring of 1986 to be able to do so, and they deserve this status to continue. It's a good bill. Let's vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u115	Okay. Honorable colleagues, motivated by two men. Semenyuk and Kirilczuk and we will vote. Please mobilize for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u116	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, today at the opening of the plenary, we have included a microphone in those that have approached the Supreme Council so that they can hear exactly what we have brought up today's issue is taken into account in the session hall. The main requirement they gave us today, because I had to take them with the head of the Budget Committee, is the requirement and adoption of this document and full funding of Chernobyl laws, taking into account the 2005 budget. I think the niggers deserve it. And I want to talk to them. In order for the law to work properly, the nuns must also stand up for them under the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I'm asking you to come to the Cabinet of Ministers on October 26th for 15 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u117	Eugene Kirilchuk, please. Let's essentially vote. Eugene Kirilchuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u118	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko I want to make a message. In fact, children are sacred. Look, Janukovic makes promises all over Ukraine. But in the first three quarters of the children in Chernobyl schools, in the Chernobyl area, they were fed 20 copies each. By the fourth quarter, children were reduced to 92 copies in school. This is because there is 15 billion money lying in the treasury of unused ones, reducing, giving gifts, giving political bribes, and children suffering. And while food prices have nearly doubled and children's nutrition has been reduced, it's a crime in front of the children of the Chernobyl area.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u119	Thank you. Honorable fellow workers! Well, we agreed, well, good for God! What's the matter? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal in both order of registration, and in order of the coming of the bill. The first is the draft 2373 bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Please vote. [[18:17:50]] For 246 Decision taken. Well, one minute, I've got other projects to put in, too. And they're there with some different motives. This is where it's supposed to be. The committee proposes to adopt two - 5987. I'm watching if the committee offers. I'm voting on adoption as the basis of draft Law 4148. [[18:18:33]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the adoption of the bill, registration number 5087. [[18:18:56]] For 218. Dear colleagues, we have adopted the bill as the basis for the first. We have a committee to work on taking into account those provisions that were in the other two bills. Is there no objection? Is there any objection to accepting as a law as a whole? That's why I'm voting. Attention, please. - if there is no objection: on the adoption of the draft law, registration number 2373 as a whole as a law. 2373, the first one we voted on. This is the first one we've voted on. Please vote. He was supported by a pro. Please vote. [[18:19:54]] For 231 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have another Chernobyl, last one, if you don't mind. And today we are going to complete the entire schedule of meetings. Let's finish, let's wait. What are you doing? We'll finish now, then I'll give you my word. Let's get this over with. No one's going. Let me finish and give you my word. A draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the status of military veterans and veterans of internal affairs and their social protection is being announced for consideration. [[concerning veterans of the tax service and the criminal enforcement system]] The authors of Osika, Olujko. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. I'm going to read you the committee's decision, and you're going to vote. The committee made this decision: recommending that the Supreme Council accept as a basis both the first draft of the law and the second. What are some warnings? The first is not about the tax service, especially what we are. We're working together, we have to vote. That's why I'm voting for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Veterans and Veterans of Internal Affairs and Their Social Protection. Please vote. It's the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Please vote. [[18:21:42]] For-97 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the basis of draft Law 5747. Victor Oluiko. Please vote. Please vote. [[18:22:09]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Oleg Zarubinsky, go to them, tell them. Please, Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u120	It is obvious that not everyone understood that this was a very responsible category of workers, reform workers, and that they should be given that status. The request of colleagues to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Service and Veterans of Internal Affairs and Their Social Protection for Criminal Enforcement Veterans. Author of the project, National Deputy Oluiko. Please vote. [[18:23:25]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Georgia Korniyovich Kručkov. Now let's ask Georgi Korniovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, this is what we're talking about. Workers who were in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system have moved into a new structure -- the criminal execution system. The same people. They used this status. And we have to pass this status on to them. Because they have virtually no change in their work. I ask the committee to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, let's vote to complete the normal phase. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Military Veterans, Veterans of Internal Affairs and Their Social Protection, registration number 5747, author of the National Deputy Oluyko. [[about the veterans of the criminal execution system]] Please vote. Well, vote! [[18:24:57]] For 206 The solution. Well, wait. What? For one more time? I'm voting on sending draft law registration number 5747 for re-reading. Please vote. [[18:25:33]] For 214 The decision is not taken. For the motives of Chernewetsk, please, and we'll finish. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 81, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 59, SDPU - 0, National Agrarian - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 7, "Soyuz" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 13, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 10. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow we will continue our plenary session at 10 a.m. on Friday. Please be in the session room.
