ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be prepared for registration by your distinguished colleagues. Turn on the "Race" system. Registered - 425 There are 425 people’s deputies’ cards registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the fifth session of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are holding another day of government in Ukraine. To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of March 4th and April 20th this year, the subject of our consideration will be the government's reports on compliance with legislation on the development of scientific and technological potential and innovation activities in Ukraine and on the state of pricing and tariff formation in the residential sector. Help and analysis materials from this subject are given to you. The profile committees have put forward a proposal for a regulation on issues that we need to reconcile, based on the fact that we have three and a half hours of working time to deal with two issues. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that this rule of procedure should be taken up on the first issue: enforcement of legislation on the development of scientific and technological potential and innovation activities. A report from the government - 15 minutes, answers to questions - 15 minutes, a report from the committee - up to 10 minutes, a statement by the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine Boris Evgenovich Patona - 10 minutes, the heads of the Chamber of Auditors Valentino Konstantinovich Simonnka - up to seven minutes, a member of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine's National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Vladimir Petrovich Seminoženka - in five minutes, and then to discuss the matter with such a calculation that at 12 hours, we will complete its consideration. [[without answering a question, because it's not a parliamentary hearing.]] Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, on this issue, there are members of the government headed by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, as well as the governing body of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine led by Boris Eugenovich Patton. Also present is the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Valentin Konstantinovich Simonenko. Let us now consider the matter. The Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Vasil Grigorovich Kremen has the floor for the report. Please, Vasil Grigorovich, in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! A common effort of the Supreme Council and the Government of Ukraine has created the foundation of a legislative system that defines the legal, organisational and financial principles of the functioning and development of scientific and technological potential and innovation. According to article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, budgetary funding for scientific research as a mechanism for state regulation and management in scientific and scientific and technical activities is carried out through a basic and targeted funding programme. Basic budget funding is provided for the conduct of fundamental scientific research, the development of scientific and technological infrastructure, the preservation of scientific objects, and the preparation of scientific personnel. Fundamental research is carried out in a high-priority scientific direction and is supported by promising developments carried out by complex copyright teams of scientists, universities, and academic institutions. The State Foundation for Research supports fundamental research into grants, especially for young scientists. Recently, the president of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, signed a decree on the development of fundamental scientific research that provides for a substantial increase in their funding starting in 2005. Software-based funding is provided on a competitive basis for science and technology programmes that implement the priorities of science and technology and applied scientific and technological developments that are carried out by government procurement. To implement the Ukrainian Laws on Science and Technology and on the Priorities of Science and Technology, a system of state science and science and technology has been set up. There are 29 state-owned science and technology programs, with funding of 5.3 million dollars. The amount of scientific and technical products implemented by such programs increases by about 15 percent annually and reaches 1.3 billion dollars. We are deeply grateful to you, honourable national deputies, for the Ukrainian Act of March 2004 on State Objective Programmes, which greatly improves activities in this direction. An important mechanism for the implementation of state policy in the science and technology field is the formation of state procurement for new technologies. In 2003 alone, new technologies -- 25, 14, new materials -- 2 -- were created, more than 100 other developments. In accordance with article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, the government will strengthen the coordination of scientific activities in the design and execution of government procurement. Competitive selections of fundamental and applied research projects have been launched, based on budgetary funding from higher education institutions and scientific institutions. The combination of educational and scientific activities at universities allows for the preservation of human potential and the use of a material and technical base both for the preparation of experts and for the conduct of scientific research. In 2003, only higher education institutions subordinated to the Ministry of Science and Science engaged nearly 62 million money in scientific and technological activities, which is 11.8 million more than in 2002. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technical Research, a system of scientific and technical expertise has been established and projects of different levels with the necessary information and technology. The system of scientific and technical information, which is regulated by the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Information, works. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2003, the government's budget for science was funded by 100 percent, which was able to be fully accounted for by the executives. However, it is not yet possible to ensure that the legislative rules on the financing of scientific and technical activities are implemented in accordance with article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technological Activities. Budget funding indicators, as you know, are significantly lower than the legislatively defined 1.7 GDP. The government is working in a meaningful way to achieve these indicators because failure to comply with this very rule of law largely prevents science from taking a proper place in the economy of the state. Increasing the financial funding of the science and technology sector is the first mature step, and this step is foreseen by the Government's Action Programme and the Budget Resolution Project. At the same time, the financing of the State Foundation for Fundamental Research needs to be increased in order to further develop fundamental research. The message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine states that these volumes should be six percent of the total expenditure on science. So today, this is only 0.8 percent. There is a need to significantly improve the funding of scientific research in higher education institutions. In accordance with article 62 of the Education Act, the State should allocate to the institutions the budget for financing fundamental research and scientific programmes for at least 10 per cent of the budget allocated to their maintenance. Today, however, we have only about four percent. The problem of updating scientific equipment at universities needs to be addressed. First, in 2005, targeted funding should be made to upgrade scientific equipment in leading universities that have world - level science schools. It is necessary to continue in 2005 and in the coming years to start this year with targeted funding for the updating of scientific equipment in the scientific institutions of NAN Ukraine, which has been made possible by supporting the leadership of the Supreme Council, as far as we know, by extending this experience to the institutions of the industry academy. I would like to highlight the problems that have been noted and the suggestions on how to address them apply to all sectors of science: academic, university, branch. The government has begun work on improving the planning and use of state - budget special funds for scientific development and services. In the near future, proposals should be made for the provision of funds to the authorising officers of the State Budget special fund for greater autonomy, such as budget lending for application development. The government is developing a state programme to predict the scientific and technological innovation of Ukraine, which will be an integral part of the government's programme of activities for 2004. Dear National Deputies! In line with legislation, the government creates the necessary legal and economic conditions for the development of international scientific and technical cooperation. Today, there are more than 70 inter-State, inter-governmental and inter-agency agreements in place in the field of scientific and technical cooperation with foreign countries and international organisations, including the EU and NATO. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed 14 laws on the ratification of agreements with countries of Europe, Asia, Africa and others. Dear National Deputies! In line with current legislation, the government has created a system of state support for science and science and technology subjects. According to valid laws, the scientific institutions incorporated into the State Register of Scientific Institutions, which are supported by the State, have tax benefits. In order to preserve unique scientific objects, the government has created a State Register of Scientific Objects that constitute National Acquisitions. Funding for the maintenance of such facilities is provided annually in the State Budget of Ukraine. I would like to point out that there are now 73 of these objects, and from year to year the number is increasing. According to valid legislation, once every five years there is a national evaluation of the scientific institutions of all forms of property. Taking into account the state status of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Government has developed a government, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine has approved a law on the legal regime of the property complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. We would very much like to ask the National Deputies to consider the possibility of similar legislative acts to be adopted in the field of the State Industrial Academy. The analysis of the work of the higher-skilled scientific and scientific and pedagogical staff system shows a slight increase in the last three years of the total number of protections of candidates and doctoral dissertations, and the government is concerned about the ageing of scientific personnel. With the involvement of national and sectoral academics, the government is developing measures to improve the situation. The social protection of scientific personnel is clearly defined by the relevant laws. However, article 23 of the Law on the establishment of salary rates for scientific workers whose activities are funded by the budget is not being paid at the same level as the twofold wage for industrial workers. To date, the average salary of scientists is 593.1 bracelets and remains at the average wage of industrial workers. In accordance with article 24 of the law, the State defines the mechanism for receiving pensions for scientific workers. Today, the average amount of scientific pensions is over 400 dollars, and the government appreciates this as a significant joint achievement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Deputies! The second group of laws regulates innovation. An example of the innovation model for Ukraine’s economy is the activity of eight technology parks created under the Ukrainian Special Investment and Innovation Act. The creation of seven more technology parks has been envisaged since January 1, 2005, according to a law recently adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the innovation and investment projects of technology parks have more than 32,000 people involved, and a thousand 550 new jobs have been created. The volume of the product was over 2 billion dollars in 3 years. In the last two years, 40 million dollars have been used to carry out research and research and development work on special accounts in technology parks. The government has taken steps to update the regulatory framework for innovation and to improve the state of affairs in the organization of technology parks. This led to an increase in the level of requirements in the consideration of technology park projects, and their monitoring reduced the amount of tax and customs benefits previously paid by 4.4 billion dollars. With the joint efforts of the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted on June 3, 2004 and signed by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Special Investment and Innovation Activities in Technology Parks. The Government has created a legal and regulatory framework for the practical implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Innovation. State registration of innovation projects has been approved and the procedure for the introduction of a state register of such projects has been approved. Training has been started in the field of innovation in a number of higher education institutions. The government will not initiate a moratorium in 2005 on the introduction of articles 21-22 of the Ukrainian Act on Innovation in the area of the introduction of taxation and customs settlement. This will increase participation in the innovation processes of small and medium-sized businesses. The most important mechanism for innovation is the financial support of the state’s innovation actors. In April of this year, the Presidential Decree of Ukraine provides for the development of state budget laws for 2005 and for the coming years to channel not less than 10 per cent of the funds received from the privatization of state property towards financial support for innovative enterprise activities of strategic importance to the economy and security of the state. I would like to ask the people's deputies to support the President's initiative to restore the budget funding for innovation, which has unfortunately not been implemented since 2000. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the increase over the last two years, almost three times, in the amount of non-budgetary lending of innovation activities, and to the increase, almost one and a half times, in the amount of domestic investors involved and innovation. True, the basic indicators are very small and the desired growth should not appease us in any way. The technology transfer is not sufficiently regulated today. Experts estimate that the lack of appropriate legislation results in annual government budget losses of up to 3 billion. That's right. I'd like the national deputies to speed up the draft legislation on state regulation in the field of technology transfer. We have begun to bring into line with the Civil and Economic Codes of Law on Scientific and Technological and Innovative Activities, clarifying the concept of scientific and technological and innovative development in Ukraine. The government will review the Ukrainian Act on Priorities for Innovation, the medium-term priorities that require refinement and narrowing with orientation to the fifth and sixth technological structures. The problem of intellectual property rights remains a very important one. It's a separate topic, but without it, it's practically impossible to move on to the widespread application of science and information technology in our country. In summary, the name is the principal, honorable national MPs. We have the foundation of a legislative system for the development of scientific and technological and innovation activities. The problem is to improve and ensure implementation. That is why we believe that it is essential to take action. First. Further improvements in legislation. The other one. Providing budgetary funding for scientific and technological and innovation activities in the ranges provided for in the laws. Third. Reinforcing the science and research base of universities, the scientific institutions of national and sectoral academics, the new scientific equipment. Four. The transfer of part of the sectoral research institutes to the main universities. Fifth. Increased wages for scientists, comprehensive support for young scientists. Six. A review of state-owned sector and regional science and technology programs. Seven. State support for innovation entities aimed at achieving the fifth and sixth technological arrangements through the introduction of state procurement for innovative products, financial support for innovative enterprise projects that are strategically important for the economy and security of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u3	How much time do you need to finish? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u4	lending priority innovation projects. The decisions of the above-mentioned tasks will be carried out by the government in carrying out its programme of activities "Coherence. Effectiveness. Responsibility." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. If you have any questions, please sign in. On the board, describe the names of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Mikola Joulinsky, please. Let's queue, one from the session room, directly from the national deputies, the other from writing. Mikoli Grigorovovich Joulinsky's microphone, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u6	Mikola Joulinsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Vasil Grigorovitch, I looked closely at these tables because it's better to read them than to listen. And I've pointed out that, for example, according to your data, innovation activities are supported by our population by 0.1 percent. This is an extremely low level of public understanding of the need for innovation change and market transformation in general. How do you think you're doing in this regard, in particular the Ministry of Education and Science, in order to somehow expand the need to support generally scientific activity and research in the consciousness of society and among, above all, the young generation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u7	Thank you, Milo Grigorovitch for asking. Unfortunately, you have to agree. Understanding the need and essence of innovation, the innovative type of development in Ukraine, is not yet sufficient and perhaps part of the political and social forces. What is done by the Ministry of Education and Science? First of all, we think that this is a multifaceted problem that also involves a whole series of work directions. We're looking at the content of education in secondary education, we're already trying to do innovation, we're trying to do innovation in general, we're trying to do innovation in society, we're trying to do innovation in general, and we're trying to do it in the 21st century, and we're trying to do it in a red line because of objects and disciplines that are somehow involved in this issue. Secondly, appropriate courses and courses are being introduced in higher education and, as I said, have also begun to prepare professionals for innovative activities. Thirdly, the Ministry of Education and Science has been actively involved in preparing a series of conferences, seminars on this particular issue. Enough to say, literally in the spring, a conference recently took place with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who had a wide voice. But I am convinced that much work is yet to be done. And maybe we should use both the powers of public organizations and the media more to introduce, I'd say, an understanding of innovative culture in Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u8	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u9	"What are the problems and prospects of training scientific personnel in Ukraine?" Dear friends, I've already said that over the last three years there has been a slight increase in the number of protections of candidates and doctoral dissertations. But there are problems here: there has been an increase in the number of winners who do not work in scientific institutions or higher education institutions during the protection of candidate dissertation, and their share in 2003 has reached almost 40 percent. There is a problem with the quality of science candidates. We often have the training of a candidate for science only to write, to prepare the text, to produce the relevant publications, and to protect them. But if you look at European countries and look at the same Bologna process, a postgraduate course similar to our teaching is a prerequisite for the protection of dissertation, because preparing a candidate, well, is not just a preparation of text, but a course of preparation from other subjects. So in our view, we need to think about making changes in the preparation of science candidates by focusing them entirely or in the vast majority through postgraduate, scientific and educational institutions and institutions. That's how I would answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u10	Yes, Vladimir Yeshchenko, the Communist faction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u11	The Communist faction, Cherkashina. I want to remind the radio audience that there is a continuing strike in the Chercass of the Trolleybusters who are fighting for their rights. But, Vasil Grigorovovich, I also have a question about Cherkas. Mikhail Kuzmich Radionov and I were at a meeting of the Rectors of our district, where Kuzminski, the Rector of the National University in Chercas, raised questions about the reconstruction and capital repair of the residence of the State University in our center of Cherkasa. This is the area where laboratories can be found today, and this is in the center of the city. This is a room that can be used for scientific purposes today. So I already wrote you a letter. You gave me the answer that's going to happen. But I want to be specific when and how?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. I know this problem. The Ministry of Education and Science has also submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Finance for the allocation of funds in the current budget, and we have made such proposals for the budget. If they are supported, these funds can be allocated already this year. If not supported, the Ministry will provide for 2005 funds. So this is a topical problem, and we're going to be contributing to it in every way. Questions. Soccer faction: "How many scientists have left Ukraine in the last five years, including academics, cow members, doctors, candidates? What specific measures are being taken by the government to end this negative trend?" I'm on it. According to the State Committee on Statistics, doctors of science have gone abroad: 1999 - 32 persons, 2000 - 26 persons, 2001 - 23, 2002 - 27, 2003 - 13 persons, including one or two academics or correspondents each year. Science candidates went out: 1999 - 104, 2000 - 125, 2001 - 139, 2002 - 128, 2003 - 79. To help me out, there are 11 000 292 doctors of science and 62,000 705 candidates of science working in the Ukrainian economy today. So going out in recent years is small if you're taking a relative of the number of candidates, the number of doctors of science. But, of course, there is a problem. And the solution, according to the government, and we're trying to do this together with the legislative body, is that the first is to create conditions for the effective work of scientists in Ukraine, i.e. to modernize the science and technology base, and the second is certainly to increase the wages of scientists, especially young scientists. It is thought that this way we will be able to optimize the departure of scientists abroad because, in principle, the exchange of scientists and their return over a period of time has certainly positive characteristics and should not be feared within a reasonable framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u13	Demyochin. Democratic Initiatives, People's Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u14	Dear Vassili Grigoryevich! I would like to ask you about the most important innovation in the training and training of our young people. What, though, do we need to do in order to intensify this process? The way it is delivered depends on intellectual capacities, the future of the country. It's not a secret. And here we have a situation every year where there's not enough textbooks, we can't equip schools, so to speak, with the necessary number of classes. It may be necessary today to accumulate all the resources to use science, technology, to develop remote, distance-sustained learning and to focus on this innovation. What, then, are the most important factors in your study today? What is the main innovation on the part of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u15	Thank you for an interesting and rather serious question and for such a multidimensional character. I absolutely agree that we have to change education and give it an innovative character because. This way only we can form a person capable of understanding and creating innovation. That's what this is all about. the content of education that is being done today in secondary education. That's where the other innovations are headed. But there are definitely problems, and I agree with you that even though in recent years there has been an increase in funding for education, education, but it's not enough. For what should money be set aside? Well, in addition to raising the wages of education students, that's understandable, because otherwise we won't invite the best part of young people to work in education. It's important to strengthen the material and technical base of the learning process. The Ministry of Education and Science has now prepared a program at the direction of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. The State's Learning Equipment Program, which envisions production in Ukraine and placement in educational facilities for different subjects, because we're very far behind from overseas school. And if, as we predict, the following year, 120-130 million can be allocated to this program, and the program is calculated at least for six years with this work being done. Let's go. Manuals. In fact, in recent years, and in God’s sight, in fact, for the first time in recent years, we have received a little over 90 million dollars of money planned. But there are problems. We're 12 years old, and today the fourth grade is going to be 12 years old, next year the fifth year, the sixth year. And we need more money to provide a whole new textbook for these classes. It is therefore necessary to increase the printing of textbooks. Computerization. Thanks to the government’s efforts last year, a thousand 835 computer classes have been placed in rural schools, but so far we have only half of our schools computerized. We need to do everything we can to computerize complete secondary education in this year and for a maximum of half the following year. So I would like to emphasize once again that I am deeply convinced that the way to truly stable innovation is through greater attention to education, to science and to greater investment in the development of the educational sphere. Thank you. The Committee on Environmental Policy on the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. What steps can be taken in reforming the taxation system by investing in technological innovation, reducing energy consumption and other resources, and making effective structural industrial reconstruction? Tax and depreciation benefits are already provided for in articles 21, 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Innovative Activities. Unfortunately, these articles are suspended by the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year. The withdrawal of this moratorium would allow for the expansion of all types of property’s innovation activities and their innovative activity. In addition, we believe that the following has contributed to investment in technological innovation. Giving tax credit to companies that are just starting to create innovative products. Exemption from tax on the part of the income that targets the construction, reconstruction and renovation of the major production funds of the enterprise. The introduction of a regressive tax for functional enterprises aimed at creating innovative products starting with the state registration of an innovative project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u16	John Boki, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u17	Please give the floor to a member of our faction, the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Nikolainka Stanislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u18	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u19	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. Dear Vassil Grigorovich. Today, let's say I know you have a situation, but comment on it. About 0.6 percent of all inventions registered in Ukraine that receive patents are licensed only 0.7 percent. So of all the inventions that we're implementing in Ukraine, out of thousands of just six, we find some kind of manufacturer, we find some kind of entrepreneur, an enterprise. This is suggested in our committee's decision to create the Ukrainian Foundation, the Ukrainian Foundation for the Support of Inventions, in order for the state to contribute to, say, Finland, the promotion of these inventions and that our nation lived richer. How you feel about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u20	Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, I fully support your proposal to create a similar structure, and I would like to say that really, not always the invention finds introduction in manufacturing. I would add, Stanislave Mikolaiovich, you know very well that we have a pressing problem of protecting inventions and intellectual products on international patenting, so we can predict these functions for this foundation. I mean, this idea is totally worth the attention, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Science and Education, and to thank Stanislav Mikolaiovich personally for this growing attention to science and innovation. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u21	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u22	A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. How is the development of technical restocking programmes for mining enterprises recommended in paragraph seven of the Supreme Council's four decrees on compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in relation to drug use in Ukraine since 20 November 2003 and envisaged by the vice-premier? I would like to say that a programme of measures to implement this regulation is to be developed during 2004 to develop the State Programme for the Reform of the Mining and Metallurgical Complex of Ukraine, taking into account mining enterprises with the application of perfect production technologies, full and comprehensive crop development, minimization of waste generation. In doing so, every enterprise has a program of technological restocking of the production fund, the introduction of fleeting technologies to enrich the iron concentration and the Ingulec and Poltava GZC, which allows to increase the quality of the raw material by one and a half percent and technology to enrich the lying sands that minimizes waste generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u23	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, heads of the Temporary Special Commission for the Future. Next is Boris Evgenovich Patton.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished deputies, respected members of the government and invited. The development of science in Ukraine during its period of independence had a number of positive aspects. An age - depressed sphere of humanitarian science is experiencing a real burst of talent. First of all, Ukrainian humanities have become full partners in the world’s scientific process. It is the development of the humanitarian sciences that must take the lead in classical and pedagogical universities that will be the foundation for the growth of the economic society of the state. It is a highly national culture that opens wide doors to contact with the world to Ukrainian society, to business, to politics. The public openness achieved allowed Ukrainian scientists, who belonged to the economic university and the field sciences, to participate in international scientific projects. In addition, the effective work of science in society is determined both by its willingness to accept positive external influences and its activity in the internal life of a state that depends mainly on the role of science. Directly this finds expression in the organization of financing science and innovation. If in 990 the actual cost of science was 2.3 percent of the gross domestic product, and it still fell significantly to 0.39 in 2003, there was some positive increase in foreign orders. Their share in the field of science in 2003 reached 42 percent, and in general, the costs from foreign funds were officially equal to the costs that were allocated from the State budget and exceeded by their effectiveness. To some extent, this contributed to the preservation of scientific personnel, especially of the older generation. The poverty of scientists when the rate of a doctor of science at a state institution for 12 years in a row does not exceed the rate of a petty policeman and comparable to that of a messenger at an average private institution has led to an incredible underestimation of the intellectual property of those works that were sold for competition, particularly abroad. Given that domestic consumption of scientific development is characterized by five percent of the innovation component in the value of Ukrainian production, it turns out that 90 percent of the scientific and innovation product goes abroad. Late with the organization of innovative manufacturing plants in Ukraine, we are driving ourselves into a poor state with unreasonable governance, and the blame lies with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is the main problem, and what should we do? We move on to the main points of the Supreme Council's ruling: the First Foundation for Fundamental Research. A 14-year experience in science, education, culture and production has shown that the decisive factor in the state's willingness to do innovation has been and remains a high level of fundamental science, which needs to be preserved as a pupil of the eye. The competitiveness of fundamental science should be maintained through both basic funding and special attention to the development and support of the fundamental research project. The budget allocations for the fund should be 0.1 percent of GDP per year, or 300 million dollars. Second, it's completely behind the science lab. She had been retarded before, but she had never been reinstated in all her years of independence. Modernization is required. For 2004, the National Academy of Sciences has to allocate 40 million dollars for the purchase of the latest equipment. The committee warns both the government and the National Academy: money must be allocated and used according to the census. For 2005, under strict scientific control. The National Academy of Sciences should continue to modernize laboratories and institutes of the Academy of Sciences and National Universities. Overall funding by estimate should be in order of 200 million dollars, but so far neither NANU nor the National University of Materials have submitted any material. Third, catastrophic and long - term poverty of teachers and scientists. Without education, there is no science, there is no education. After the National University, the teacher gets 260 per month, a professor, a doctor - 560 per month, an industrial worker - 654 per month. To enforce the law, you need to increase existing wages in education and science by 2.5 times. In order to do that, in particular, researchers need to allocate 1 billion and 70 million dollars. By comparison, in Hungary, the average salary of a scientist is $1,000 a month, 10 times more than in Ukraine, in Russia -- 4 times more, in the United States -- 50 more than in Ukraine. We bring these numbers, not for laughs, but to illustrate the harmfulness of government and parliament policies. Fourth, antagonism of science and production in Ukraine. The United States, Europe, Japan, went to an innovative 50-year economic model, in parallel with the modernization of science-based design, technology and production. There's another situation in Ukraine. Competitive production is accompanied by the purchase of new equipment, usually imported. This means a lack of acceptance by Ukrainian production of Ukrainian scientific achievements. Therefore, Ukraine’s main concern is the fundamental renewal of the press park and other equipment of the enterprises, and a corresponding incentive law is needed. Scientific activities are divided into fundamental research, applied research, and development, resulting in production patterns. Costs should be allocated in proportion: 1 to 1.7 to four. In Ukraine we have 1 to 0.9 to 4.4. So applied science doesn't work, which means that science basically copies foreign products. Prime Minister Janukovic, speaking at the National Academy of Sciences, claimed that the government would put 1.7 per cent of GDP in the 2005 budget for science. This means about 5.1 billion dollars at the current rate of about 1.4 billion dollars. So far, there is no reason to think about a political bluff. And in fact, fundamental research needs to be completely funded from the state budget, applied to 50 by 50, and development should be an interesting production. This is true in the EU and the United States. Note that the EU has a task for all its members: to bring the costs of scientific research, based on the example of Ireland, Finland and Sweden, to up to three and a half percent of GDP. For Ukraine, that would mean 10.5 billion dollars a year, and the government budget share is 30 percent, that's 3.2 billion dollars, and business is 70 percent, or 8.4 billion dollars. With the current budget of 1.4 billion dollars, the figure of 3.2 is quite real. To engage in business, the Supreme Council must adopt incentives. For example, the United States, Japan, Britain, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Canada, Australia, Singapore, Russia, introduced a hundred percent write-off on research and development costs in determining the tax base and depreciation of capital deposits. In Hungary, the tax benefit for firms that finance scientific research is 200 percent. Therefore, the Innovation Act has been in force for Ukraine since 2005. The government creates rules for the functioning of the law. Since 2006, we have been following the footsteps of Hungary. Fifth. Where can I get the money? Ukraine needs to move on to the principle of technology parks. The state stimulates projects, not territories and industries. The state fully stimulates the fifth and sixth economic systems: information, bio. Technology, superconductiveness, hydrogen energy, knowledge economy. The state cannot stimulate the second and third economic systems. Now they have billions of dollars a year: metallurgy - 8; car building - one, one billion; machine building - 4; food industry - 5; commercial banks - 5.4, National Bank - 4, trade - 7. A total of 35 billion dollars, and a total of 70 billion dollars. For each of the listed sectors, 30 percent of the benefits in 2005 are reduced so that the benefits are almost eliminated within three years. This adds up to 11 billion dollars each year. Here they are making a contribution to innovative policies, a contribution accompanied by tax benefits. And the sixth. Organisational arrangements. As a technologically retarded country, Ukraine is interested in technology transfer. A law is required to facilitate transfer. Small innovative firms should be promoted, especially at universities. Creation of venture firms, applied research funds and implementation funds. Similarly to the U.S., to release venture funds from paying taxes for 10 years, to renew the activities of the Ukrainian Innovation Fund. The innovation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u25	Finish up Igor Raphailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u26	Ukraine’s innovative development should affect virtually all economic arrangements from mining to information and knowledge. For each of them, it is appropriate to have contact with advanced technologies and relevant educational organizations. This is already one of the main tasks of the Interim Special Commission from the future. In general, the situation is not hopeless. The base for action is, requires a clear and systematic expansion. At the same time, the most important task in the Supreme Council is to build a democratic country with a socio-political and economic system based on the overwhelming power of the middle class of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u27	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Have a seat, please. I would like to invite the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Boris Evgenovich Patton. Please, Boris Evgenovich, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! The report by Minister of Education and Science Vasil Grigorovich Kremen has carried out a detailed analysis of the legislative framework for the development of scientific and technological potential and innovation activities in Ukraine. So let us stop at just a few points of principle. First of all, the transition to an innovative model of economic development is really necessary for Ukraine today, but it has to be remembered that real innovation, or the creation of the principle of new production or technology, is impossible without a new idea and only fundamental science is capable of producing such ideas. In our view, therefore, the legislative provision of the pre-eminent development of fundamental sciences in Ukraine is very important. In this regard, I would like to point out that the National Academy of Sciences has come out of crisis, including at the legislative level. The beginning and mid-1990s last century, preserved as a whole and, you could say, a fairly active system. In recent times, the Supreme Council has included as a separate priority fundamental research on the most important issues: natural, social and humanitarian sciences in the list of priorities for scientific and technological development up to 2006. As a result, in particular, there has been an increase in the amount of budget funding for the fundamental research of the academy, the introduction of new scientific programmes of fundamental research from current perspectives. Of course, there are still many challenges, including financial security for the fundamental sciences. And this is a matter to be settled. First of all, it is important to increase spending on the State Foundation for Fundamental Research. Now they're not going to be low. As a result, this very important tool still does not play a prominent role in supporting the most up-to-date scientific projects. Maybe it would be appropriate to give the fund, and now it's a state-owned institution, a budget manager's right. Another aspect of innovation is the need for it to be properly provided at the regional level. Along with the Donetsk district administration and the city of Kiev have developed important targeted interesting programs, I would say economic and social development. Recently, when we were in Donetsk, we considered the course of the program. In Lugansk a decision was reached on the development of a new program in the Donetsk region. We believe that the work in Kiev is coming successfully. But in fact, the local authorities are now deprived of the ability to have a significant impact on scientific and technical activities in the region. We believe that it is necessary to introduce the relevant expenditure articles into the local budgets, and the Academy has already made a proposal on the relevance of such changes in the Codex Budgets, but the issue remains unresolved. A few words about technology parks. The implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks, which was prepared and accepted by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, allowed the necessary conditions for their real work to be created. There have been some misunderstandings, attempts to impose moratoriums on the creation of new technology parks, on the implementation of new innovation projects. And it's a good thing that didn't happen. Of course, the technology needs to be improved. But in general, it is a strong, positive factor in innovation and needs further support. An important issue is also the improvement of legislation in the area of the creation, use and protection of intellectual property. In particular, incentives must be put in place to create inventions and other intellectual property. To this end, taking into account the experience of foreign countries and the previous order in Ukraine, it would be appropriate to introduce additional provisions on the order and extent of payment of the reward to the creators, taking into account the experience of foreign countries and the existing order in Ukraine. This is what they do all over the world. A solution is needed and a problem is to shorten the duration of the expertise to issue patents for inventions. In our view, we need to take into account Russia’s experience where this is done within one year and to determine the legal terms for the processing of applications for invention. It is clear that the innovative development of the state is impossible without the development and integration of important components such as education and science. Therefore, the further integration of these spheres of activity is extremely relevant. There is much going on in this regard. But it should be noted that the internal resources of the National Academy of Sciences and the Ministry of Education and Science from the joint training of qualified personnel, including through joint science and teaching structures, are virtually exhausted. These questions need to be resolved at a national level. In our view, it would be appropriate to develop a national programme for the integration of education and science and to approve it by decision of the Supreme Council. And one of the measures of this program should be the legislative extension of the National Academy of Sciences to the law of educational activity. It's very important now and wisely to solve the question of what's called the Bologna process. You can join it without losing your own frame preparation and attestation system. We are confident that you have become a member of the Bologna process, that Ukraine must preserve the academics of the candidate and doctor of science and must preserve the One State, I stress, the Higher Authenticity Commission. At the end of my speech, I would like to stress that science and education are the most important priorities of all that can ensure Ukraine's further development, its future. And they should really be the priorities of state policy in all branches of government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u29	Thank you, Boris Eugeneovich. Have a seat, please. The word is given to a member of the Presidium of the National Academy of Sciences of the Academy of Sciences, Seminozhenko Volodymyr Petrovich. Five minutes, please. The point is, while the reporter is coming, I'm making a note to the committee secretariat that he wasn't preparing the government day, he was preparing the parliamentary hearings in the regime. Let them read the government’s Day and prepare for the government’s Day. This is similar to our parliamentary hearing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! On a large scale, there are two questions today: How is our existing legislation being implemented, and why are many parts not being carried out? And is it modern legislation if you measure it from the point of view of what is being done now in the world? Let us take a look at what examples have been discussed in previous presentations? The requirements of the State Budget are the Ukrainian Law, 1.7 percent. The 2003 fact is only 0.34. The moratorium on the law on innovation, the moratorium on investment projects in technology parks, has already been mentioned. The concept is our main document that we come up with, the concept of science and technology and innovation dates back to 98 today, and for the ideas that we've put into this law, into this concept, it's the middle of the 1990s. I mean, from a big point of view, this is the last century. If, for example, we can imagine right now, we have 1.7 percent, which is GDP, if we get out of GDP next year, from estimates, that's five billion dollars. What are the priorities, let's say, for example, if we now think about the Innovation Priorities Act, it's fresh enough in 2003, Notice, it's mostly about the third to fourth technological systems, the fifth rareness. The sixth is hardly the case. At the same time, let us take these priorities to heart with those existing in the European community. Please, all seven points, even such an interesting point that Mikola Grigorovich Zhulinsky pointed to innovative ideology. See the problems of governance in a knowledge - based society. Even such a priority really speaks of its super-modernity. And the fact that we don't have the priorities that lie in the surface of high technology, and, in large accounts, the lack of public values, leads to the fact that the drinking weight of the fifth and sixth technological system in recent years does not increase in our overall production volumes, but decreases. What's more, the volume of high-tech production beyond the different estimates of about 3-4 percent, well, maybe five percent, and investment in high-tech development is just four percent, that's not ahead. That's 7 to 10 times less than what the world's leading countries are showing today. Let me look at why they're showing it. For example, France: the corporate income tax of all without exception is going down by 50 percent of the increase in their costs of scientific research, and it's been going on since about the 1980s. Next example: 100 percent of the write-off of research costs in determining the tax base is in countries that need to be commented on. Our Russian neighbors introduced this in 2000 as well. We don't do this, just for tech parks. And this is what Boris Eugenovich Patton mentioned vividly, examples of the flaws that make it impossible to build a technology park. A fresh example, Hungary, from May 1st, is the following law: the drinking of the weight of the budget in total innovative funding is more than 50 percent, that is, the state is also funding innovation from the state budget. The already introduced tax on innovation is differentiated, which is also in operation this year. And now the number of innovation structures. We say we had three tech parks first, then 8, now, after Leonid Danilovich signed the law, we have 15 tech parks, 15 innovation structures. See, in countries: in Poland - 700, in the Czech Republic - 831, well, we have 15. Already in Russia, look at how many different structures there are already science centers, state science centers, innovation centers, and so on and so forth. So the benefits that work for tech parks, we only have three. In this example, which is now mentioned, see: about ten different projects, including direct state funding for beautiful projects. We don't have any examples of external financing in law at all, which is the basis for innovative development.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u31	Your time is up. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u32	And I don't have to finish because these tasks that we all have to do together exist in this painting. We need a new doctrine today, and a code of scientific and technological innovation, and modern laws that really stimulate, and new priorities that provide higher technology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Petrovich. I invite you to speak to the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Valentina Konstantinovich Simonenka. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and colleagues! Today, the walls of Parliament discuss an issue on which the future of Ukraine depends. The current sources of economic growth in the country have almost exhausted themselves. For decades, the scientific factor has been virtually excluded from strategic State priorities, from the process of economic reform, and no scientific gains have been made to overcome technological backlogs from developed foreign countries. Under these conditions, only a model of innovative economic development, the main objective of which is not to attract investment, not an abstract structural adjustment, which is so much written in various regulations, but to create and implement qualitatively new technologies, can guarantee sustained growth in the Ukrainian economy and overcome its deep imbalances. As if the recent lack of attention of the authorities had increased dramatically. A series of round tables, conferences, a draft for strategic innovation, issued a number of Presidential decrees, numerous Cabinet of Ministers decrees. However, there are simply no concrete results from this activity. It seems that the most important issue for the State has simply been raised. It's all going through the scenario of our recent national struggle under the slogan "The economy must be economical!".. In 2003, the total expenditures of the State budget for scientific activities amount to one billion 400 million bracelets. There's a lot of money. The total budget expenditure is 2.5 per cent. All intellectual property created for these funds belongs to the State, which is about 1 billion bracelets. And the Government must, in the context of market relations, decide how to use the scientific potential to ensure that it is necessary. But that is not the question that has been resolved. The innovations that have been made lie on the shelves, are not implemented, and are eventually written off. Auditors of the Court of Auditors found that only 6 per cent of the existing total number of intellectual property under licence contracts was used in the National Academy of Sciences system, and that percentage ranged from 1 to 2. As a result of 2003, only 9 per cent of industrial enterprises were innovatively active, producing the total output of 2.1 per cent of total industrial production. In addition, this sum includes all innovations that have any signs of innovation. Undoubtedly, all these volumes cannot be critical, which could guarantee the pace of economic development required for Ukraine. But I would like to emphasize that the essence of the problem is not as much budget funding as it is in the management system of this process as it is in the mechanism for implementing the main challenges of the model of innovative development. Although there are nine laws in force today, a number of Presidential decrees, Supreme Council decrees, thirty-one Government decrees regulating innovation and science and technology, conditions for the introduction of a model for innovative economic development in the country have never been established. Forty-five major budget managers are involved in research. However, there is no coordination of research, no structure of marketing, no real buyers and no demand for intellectual property in the internal market, no approved legal level of cost, assessment and accounting of intellectual property. And we're writing it off as low value. Over the past five years, the Cabinet of Ministers has not defined a single strategy and a core area of fundamental research. Sectoral sciences and central executives, within the framework of their budgetary appointment, independently determine and approve the direction and extent of funding for fundamental research for their scientific institutions by an essential method of scrutinizing which solves their narrow-sector tasks or does nothing at all. In these circumstances, effective action by the Government is needed to open the gap between pride and innovation. A system is needed primarily to address the role of the budget and other factors in the formulation of innovation policies. There is no doubt that the most priority innovative projects should have public support in the form of budgetary funding and should be awarded on a competitive basis. In addition to basic research, budget funding should be supported through State procurements in the cross-cutting chain, applied research on day-to-day technical support, practical implementation and replication. It is not that science has not now reached 1.7 per cent of GDP, as stipulated by law. At the current stage, it is necessary to determine whether science is ready for innovation in its current structure, organization and management. The mechanism for managing research and implementing scientific development needs to be changed. This is where they talked about our tech parks. Yes, our technology parks today can be seen as being overwhelmed by the press with the multi-level harmonization of projects. Each project should be reviewed at least in eight ministries, in several committees, at the Academy of Sciences, four times, and then approved by the Ministry of Education and Science. Finally, after all the proceedings, the Cabinet Commissions under the leadership of Dmitry Vladimirović Tobacco are under review. Technopolis has been a major factor in the phenomenon of leap-starting development of known countries and regions. I will not list them, but only one thing I can tell you is that there is virtually no technopolis in the structure of the domestic economy. And the last. I am convinced that without taking concrete action on today. Turning to the innovative model of economic development, we will not simply move into the fifth technological system, but forever. We will not be forgiven for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u35	Thank you, Valentin Costinovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Please take a look at your monitors, and I'll give you, first of all, a word from the factions, and we'll be having a discussion by 12:00 straight. Please, from the faction of the Proscuratov Social Democrats, prepare Kurasa. Proscuratova, are you ready to perform? Please give me your word. On Government Day, we have a five-minute deadline. But if anyone saves, I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u36	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. The development of scientific and technological potential and innovation activities in Ukraine is regulated by the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Innovation. In addition, the benefits for innovative activities are provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation. These benefits apply to tax and customs matters, they do not have reverse effects in time, they cannot be repealed. But their action was suspended by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004. The amount of work carried out in the first quarter of 2004 is only 2.8 million dollars, according to state, scientific and technical and targeted programmes. At 84.1 percent of jobs are funded by the budget. Which means this amount of funding of 2.8 million dollars for the entire quarter. Clearly, it makes no sense to say anything about innovative priorities for economic development at such levels of funding. And that's basically the whole amount of funding 84.1. This situation proves that, first of all, non-state investors are not interested in selected research directions because of their low employability in manufacturing. Secondly, existing models of co-financing domestic scientific and technical development by the State Budget and private investors certainly need substantial work. As evidenced by the experience and not only the developed countries, just applying effective models of developing their own science and technology base allows for the formation of, in fact, an innovative orientation for economic development. To do that, you have to solve a lot of complex issues: developing patent law, a system of tax benefits for investments that focus on research and development. The second set of issues is the high level of dispersal between research objects. 92 organizations and businesses in Ukraine are involved in the development of state-owned scientific and technical programmes. So with the general funding fund, 2.8 million dollars is less than 30,000 dollars for each of these organizations. For each of the 122 themes, there are less than 25,000 dollars. It is clear that only a few of these subjects will be able to bring any benefit to the industry and not soon. All the above figures confirm that innovative activity in Ukraine really needs all the support of the state, which is now complete. That's enough. And the main directions for such tax support, customs regulation, fast-track depreciation, credit system, targeted budget allocation. All of these importance of state regulation through accelerated introduction into the production of modern technology and innovation are already legally solidified. The temporary elimination of these benefits in Ukraine is indeed taking place because taxes and tax benefits are specified annually by the Ukrainian State Budget Act. At that time, even a temporary distinction between the benefits guaranteed by legislation hinders the introduction of innovative technologies, as it destroys the economic subsoil of such processes. As a result, the transition to strong economic factors, stimulating investment and innovation is very slow. As a result of the above faction, the SDPI(o) proposes. Taking into account the need to strengthen the legislative protection of innovation technologies, we consider it necessary to reinvigorate the benefits for innovation, which have been suspended by the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers and the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine review within the framework of the 2004 budget the composition and funding of state-priority scientific and technical programmes. The government develop proposals for effective financing models for priority scientific and research and development programs that would provide real incentives for investors in all forms of ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u37	Thank you. The word from the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" comes from Ivan Fedorovich Kuras. Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u38	Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies. There is the idea that scientific and technological and especially innovative activities are mainly in the field of natural and technical sciences, the interest of the relevant sectors of the national economy. However, the world's experience and our own convinces us that without a social humanitarian component, it is impossible to successfully implement problems and, in fact, scientific and technological development. That's where we think we're developing new trends like the knowledge economy, social innovation in general. Moreover, it is at the very end of these spheres that new problems arise, sometimes acute coalitions that need their solution, including considering the subject of our discussion - legal settlement. I wanted to make a few suggestions in this regard, especially since much and interesting experience has been accumulated in recent years, including at the National Academy of Sciences. I wanted to inform you, dear colleagues, that in the Institute of States and Law, our academy has created and successfully functioning new centres of scientific banking law and intellectual property, energy and nuclear law, theoretical and legal problems in general, and comparative law is the only International Centre for Space Law in the SND countries. And they're mostly financed from outside budget sources. In our view, it is time to extend the state order to these areas of legal provision of those areas on which scientific and technological progress and innovation depends largely, if not decisively. It also addresses the development of problems of improving the social policy of our state, ensuring the stability of Ukrainian society, reducing the level of social tension and political opposition, neutralizing the sources of inter-ethnic, inter-faith and inter-regional conflicts. In our view, the issue that needs to be addressed at the national level is the issue of granting the National Academy of Sciences to Ukraine the right to legislative initiative. This question has been asked repeatedly. It remains unsolved. Another offer. It seems to me that perhaps today, the Ministry of Education, the National Academy of Sciences, along with the government and the Supreme Council, should initiate an important project, which could be called, "the computer university of middle and older people." The growth of computerization, the transformation of the computer into a basic tool for learning, culture, and information without computer education can lead to a kind of digital divide between generations, the massive illiteracy of middle - and older people, which will affect production, employment, the levels of mass education and culture, the social moods of the population, and possibly cause widespread tensions between social levels of the population and power. There's another important question in this connection, and I'm conditionally calling it "the issue of computerization," namely, the software product in Ukrainian. Without this, young generations will learn to communicate with the computer, not with the state, but with others, usually in English, languages. It's a very important problem today, it's already been broken in both the reports and the presentations, it's a problem with the operation of technology parks. We have the first, in our opinion, to talk about some conclusions early, but the first experience of creating the only technology in Ukraine that combines scientists in the field of natural, technical and humanitarian sciences, and it's called "intellectual information technology." We very much hope that this will be a successful form of combining the integration of scientists in different fields. And finally, the question has come to light -- and we would ask him to be very careful -- about creating a fund of humanitarian research, which also has to be of a state-wide nature from every point of view. These and other questions deserve careful legal protection. And I think that all colleagues from different factions could unite in solving these very issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u39	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. From the faction of the Agrarian Party, Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich, has to prepare for Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished members of the government, revered Boris Eugenovich! The consideration of this issue on Government Day is, in our view, driven by the fact that in Ukraine, it is practically exhausting from the critical factors of economic growth, and the shift to intensive factors of economic development, the promotion of the investment process and innovation is being carried out too slowly, although a number of important laws have been adopted at the legislative level to improve state science and technology and innovation policies, whose main orientations have been defined by the concept of scientific and technological and innovation development of Ukraine, as endorsed by the Supreme Council's decision of 13 July 1999. I mean, once again, the right legal field is, and the laws, and they were now called, will allow it to be done with both its own and its foreign capital. However, despite this, the development of scientific and technological potential and innovation processes in the state not only do they not meet the current requirements in individual fields, but they also have very small prospects for the future. The reason is that at a low level, there is funding for the science and technology sector, with a substantial reduction in the share of software and targeted funding. In the last 10 years, the material and technical base of scientific institutions and organizations has virtually not been updated, and almost 2.5 times the number of people employed in science has been reduced. What is more, the most promising scientists who carry new ideas, young people, first of all, go abroad. And this is not just a loss today, this is the future of science. And without adequate financial incentives from the State, this process cannot be stopped. The limited budget capacity does not allow sufficient support for agro-industrial production at the level of developed countries, where it varies between 25 and 40 percent to the cost of production. In Ukraine, the cost of agriculture in the State Budget was 34 percent, and today, unfortunately, only 2 percent. Despite some disruptions over the last two years, it has not yet been possible to initiate funding for the programmes defined by law, to prevent and eliminate disease, for example: large cattle for spongelike encephalopathies and others. Infections. This is also a world problem in Ukraine. The development of plant protection products, based on modern technology, the development of fish farming, the construction of fishing vessels, and the development of irrigation. But it is especially unfortunate that strategic trends such as the development of agricultural machinery and the provision of technology, mineral fertilizers, and plant protection products are not ensured. We need to realize that failure to comply with valid laws, lack of effective innovation infrastructure, not only hinders the development of the economy of the state, but also negatively affects the innovative activity of society as a whole. This infrastructure, I think, will be the agrotechnological parks that are so active in our policies, first of all, Igor Raffailovich Yukhnovsky. The Ukrainian Agrarian Party's deputy faction insists that in the years to come, the budget support for agro-industry will be greatly expanded, with new and more progressive schemes. We think it's also innovation. Especially with regard to the technical rearming of agriculture. In general, the village is now provided with only 55 percent of the technology needed. 90 percent of tractors, combiners, and other vehicles have virtually exhausted their technical resources. Therefore, long - term investments in the necessary amounts should focus primarily on supporting enterprises that produce agricultural techniques. We, too, believe that the relevant authorities in the center and in places should be more thoroughly scrutinized about all the investment trends, including international aid. That's a lot of money. They have to improve relationships with different projects, through expansion, ongoing consultations, reports, expert evaluations, conduct scientific and practical conferences, ensure the development of regional investment programmes in the agro-industrial complex. The development of scientific and technological potential must play a major role in the transition of the economy to the innovative path of development, the solution of social problems, the rise in education and culture in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u41	Thank you. The word from the faction of the Socialist Party has Nicholas. Get ready for Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dearly beloved! I'm going to say right now that the theme of today's Government Day, in our opinion -- the Socialist faction -- is crucial for Ukraine's future, because the innovative triad -- science, education, production -- is exactly the kind of chain that we have to pull our Ukraine out of the abyss. We must put an end to the extensive development of the state, to the exploitation of the natural monopolies that are, unfortunately, currently in the hands of the vast majority of the oligaric structures of our vast natural resources. Why is our state today, our economy, our science? Why is the production produced by our industry only 0.7 percent high-tech, high-tech, scientific output? Why our science and education is being degraded, and the successes that we have today are indeed the merit of the personalities that we have seen today and, above all, they are not always in the logic of events, in the logic of government decisions, let's say, the Supreme Council. What is the reason for this condition? First of all, the state has recently refused to support science and education. And this is happening, by the way, back to the loud talk about the importance of science in the state. For almost a few years, the laws on innovation have been halted. I wonder how this year, let's say, maybe the Ministry of Education and Science is actually doing that, and they're doing it. The Statenofon doesn't work. Entrepreneurs are not interested in innovative activities. Why are they and businesses, including, and not even state-owned enterprises, running NTPs? This is a major issue today because they are more advantageous than introducing new technologies, scientific achievements to take on a few hundred workers, pay them a meager salary, and at the expense of this to have some cheap production. And if you add that raw material to the left and to the right that we have today, by the way, very little, it makes sense from here why it's not an interested business in implementing NTPs. See, today the cost of education in the production cost structure of enterprises is 0.3 percent of all labour costs. The Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that at the time of the amendments to the Laws on the Taxation of Business Income, the Added Cost Tax Act, reduced import duties on scientific devices, the full functioning of technology parks, the restoration of state funds, and so on. [[By the way, they've already made these changes, they're under consideration by the Supreme Council.]] Such proposals have to be supported. The Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine should have a common policy on the support of science. We need to meet not only in the session room when we consider this important issue, but this is not enough. [[I believe that, indeed, an important question, and the Minister's report, and the report by Igor Rafailovich, were very true and interesting.]] Yesterday I had to talk to the minister of finance. We agreed that the support of the Academy of Sciences, the acquisition of new equipment, the increase in wages for all academics, educators, teachers, and so forth would continue. But I am also concerned about university science today. This situation that happened there is even worse than in our branch schools. 50-60 million dollars spent on university science are tears. And what can we talk about in the Bologna process, if a student, a teacher, is cut off from fundamental research, from science? In the next year’s budget, we should necessarily increase it by at least three times, or four times, to support university science, which is fundamental first of all. We need to support the idea of creating Ukrainian inventions so that we can accompany all the patent inventions, and they found their manufacturer and go into industry. The socialists think we should adopt a program of technical restocking of the university's material base. It's about that we can go different ways, different ways: to define a few dozen colleges or a few centers, and where you can set up, say, a National Academy of Sciences joint equipment centers so that scientists, students, postgraduates can put research into and prepare and implement scientific development. Without that, I don't think we're going to move forward. And in general, I think Adam Ivanovich needs us to ask the Voice of Ukraine, if you don't mind, I think they're going to support everyone to publish this in the paper to make it happen for all of Ukraine, so that people know about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u43	Thank you. From the faction of the People's Democratic Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of the People's Deputies of Majko. To prepare Matvienkov, "Centre" gives him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u44	It is a pleasure to hear the government seriously for the first time today. But I would like to say that there is also the problem and the very big fault of the Supreme Council when so many people are present today. This right-hand side and the trade unions talk a lot about what should be a high level of minimum wage. But the minimum wage is not going to be great when they're asking and doing demonstrations, but when all of us and the unions are thinking about productivity. And there's only one way out of this position of making more money and making more money, not taking more pay and looking where it's gone. And that leads to today, when wages, inflation rates, the level of wage increases. Only the productivity of the work. I can give you an example like this. As the director, I made the product myself. One and a half thousand products were made in a month. Turkey, with its deposit of money, makes about a half a thousand in time, an hour. That's where you have to pay. And I want to tell you, we're talking about science today, look what we have. The most powerful science can be in all of Europe, it was in Ukraine. I can bring you our research institutes of the military industrial complex. Almost everyone's closing today. And look at Quant Institute, the first ultrasonic apparatus in the world of Quanta, the first laser knives our Quanta is still operating today. I could bring one of these, I don't talk about radiolocation anymore. What are we doing? Who is involved in these serious institutions. The first thing I ask the government is to ban the destruction of the scientific institutions of Ukraine. To ban them from fully privatizing. Put the inventory of all the research institutes in Ukraine under control and see what tasks they're doing. Today, the most powerful institution of the Soviet Union, the Quantum Institute, is being destroyed. There was no institute on the radio. Boris Evgeniovich, when the question was not only in radiolocation, but also in measuring devices, for the quality of welding submarines, when no one could decide, you remember, this is the task when you and our minister made Brezhnev. Only the Quantum Institute performed this instrument, then it did. There are hundreds of such institutions today. What's going on? From the center of the city, this institution is being destroyed. I could give hundreds of examples like this. There are many such examples. The other one. We never had any institute in Ukraine, no production was good if it wasn't in the new technology. Curly was such a director. He said, "Don't look for these coins in these productivity gains, look for new technology, new technology." So there was always a high level of production, not in the old ones, something like patching the old ones. Today, I can set such an example. There is such a scientist as Beh. It's only after the power economy that it offers such development that it can halve electricity costs. Boris Eugeniovich, a modern - day weld transformer that can be carried into a suitcase. And it's already doing this transformer. And there are so many decisions. I think we need to look at how we've preserved the electronic industry, how we're doing the nanotechnologies that we've got so far, what we've got in the program is eight million a year, and we need to include them. Look at the destruction of a microelectronic base in Chernobyl! It was a U.S. ziminka! And university, dozens of factories! I'm asking for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u45	Tell me, you have exactly half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u46	I would like all of us to understand that we must guard what is and multiply! You're saying no new technology is in place. First of all, why patents, why should an inventor pay for an invention? He needs to be paid by the state to register him! Not everyone has the opportunity to register it now. And the second. The introduction of any new technology is a risk. And we need to help. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u47	Thank you, your time is up. Please, Matvienkov, the "Centre" Group. Get ready for Player.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u48	Respectable colleagues, the metal industry, near the fuel and energy complex, largely determines Ukraine's viability and effectiveness. Having taken fifth place in the world in production capacity and providing 40 per cent of currency revenue, Ukraine's metallurgical complex needs serious reconstruction and renewal. We have inherited a conglomerate of unbalanced and, in some cases, excessive and inefficient capacities. For example, 70 per cent of production is mildly competitive. 60 per cent of it is made on worn-out old technology equipment with significant energy and raw materials. The industry is characterized by overcapacity to produce inefficient martenov steel. Re-increased steel pipe production capacity has been inherited. With this potential, we are now taking part in world markets and providing 9.5 per cent of its needs. Do we have enough time to address the issue of restructuring of production and what opportunities do we have to maintain our positions? Trends in world markets are made up in such a way that steel production increases from year to year. For example, 2003 is characterized by an increase in its own production of 6.7 per cent. China's main metal consumer will reduce its imports of finished products by 43 million in 2004. Tonnes up to 34.5 million At the same time, it increased its own production by 21 per cent and reached a record value of 220 million. tons. It is increasing its own production of Taiwan, India, South-East Asian countries, which are introducing rather high import duties for metals. If the share that we do not have in the EEA markets awaits us at all, hope remains only in the countries of the Middle East. As oil prices rise, they are able to invest in economic development. That is, if summed up, it can be concluded that without improving production, improving quality and improving competitiveness, we have nothing to do in external markets. At the same time, the development of the internal market also requires a vehicle sheet and high-quality metal. To date, the steel industry has been able to overwhelm some $15-20 billion in investment, but experience has shown that, as a result of the dispersion of ownership in various financial and industrial groups, the absence of a clear regulatory policy by the State, all development programmes are a set of mutually unbalanced, unbalanced measures. As a result, programmes for the introduction of virtually all new aggregates are planned in factories producing low-efficiency grading products. States without a specialized institution have an obligation to predict the situation and direct investment activities, but we have anarchy and a Brown movement in this regard. Only increased demand for wholesale rental, as in the Alcev combination significant funds are invested in increasing production of these products, with sufficient capacity in Ukraine. What did they do with the pipelines, who would value the money that was spent in vain? There must be a public policy in this direction so that enterprise funds do not die and enterprises do not drown each other. Also important is the source of funding. It is expected that 67 per cent of the costs will be borne by enterprises, but our price policy, the commodity management mechanism, is not about development, but about the survival of the steel industry. The reserve in all countries is the depreciation fund, but our standards do not even stop the ageing process, let alone development. Reproduction of the core funds is 0.8 per cent instead of 3.5, which are planned. At rates ranging from 15 to 30 per cent, the financial and credit sector does not use more than five per cent of the investment. Finally, attracting foreign capital. There is also a need to deal with their nature. One of the largest investors since the United States, 16 per cent, is non-resident Cyprus, 11 per cent. These are mostly money-laundering, from which Ukraine's budget, virtually, did not receive taxes, are being reimbursed in the form of investments. Thus, regulating the relations between owners is the most complex issue of government action. As you can see, there are a lot of omissions on this issue. The Cabinet of Ministers is required to create and implement civilized, perspective-based methods of State influence on industrial and scientific and technological capacity development. Only in this case can we have the right impact, only in this case can we build a normal economy of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u49	Thank you. There's a bit of noise here, they say, going around the country. I repeat: the "Centre" Group passed on Matthew's word, and he was in the "Regions of Ukraine" and he stayed in the "Regions of Ukraine," and he didn't go anywhere. Yes, a word from the Communist faction has been given to Grachev. Get ready for Toothpick.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Boris Evgenjevic, respected colleagues and members of the government! I will say immediately that, in our view, the Government's implementation of its legislation on scientific and technological capacity development and innovation in Ukraine is clearly unsatisfactory. And I'm going to explain this in just two, in our view, of the most important examples of this kind of assessment. The first is the funding of the scientific field. I recall that, as early as December 1998, the Supreme Council adopted the Law on Science and Science and Technology. Vladimir Petrovich remembers this because he was the chair of the committee, where the funding of the scientific field was clearly established - 1.7 per cent of gross domestic product, beginning in 2001, that is to say, a transitional period. By the way, in response to a question by the President of the Court of Auditors about whether science can acquire and strengthen this amount of funding and produce the necessary product, I can answer with certainty: of course, there will be no doubt that this will be the case today with Boris Evgenjevic Patton and many other presentations by scientists at the National Academy of Sciences. Thus, we have a funding of 0.35 from gross domestic product for this year, and all previous years have been at about the same level. Speaking at the annual general meeting of the National Academy of Sciences, the Prime Minister promised that funding would be in line with legislation, i.e. 1.7 GDP, next year. I would very much like to believe that this phrase was not predicated on any conjunctural considerations. But is it possible to raise the funding of science five times in one year now? By next year, unfortunately, the respectable Vassili Grigoryevich had failed to answer this question today. And the second. This is the implementation of the Innovation Act. The materials that we've been given are very correctly written in the Prime Minister's signature: "One of the factors that inhibits the development of innovation is the lack of a well-established system of effective financing of innovation activities, such as stagnation. The Ukrainian law on innovation in the introduction of taxation and customs regulation of innovative activities has been suspended." But this is done by the Cabinet of Ministers itself and is done in a second year in a row. "In order to solve the problem mentioned here, it is necessary to implement articles 21, 22 of the Ukrainian Act on Innovative Activities. To this end, the Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2004 initiated by the Ukrainian National Deputy Gracheva." [[Registration number 4477 of 9 December 2003]] I am very grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers that such an evaluation is here. However, this bill, 4477, considered by the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council, and on the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers, is submitted to a session with a recommendation to be rejected. So where does the Cabinet of Ministers honestly say, here in this material that we are given today, or when this law is being considered on the budget committee? By the way, he was considered in the absence of the author, why he did not find the necessary committee to invite me. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate my hope that both the Science and Science and Technology Act and the Innovation Act will be fully implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u51	Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. You don't have to worry, the Cabinet of Ministers is a complex structure, the Ministry of Profiles will support your law, and the Ministry of Finance won't. Let's work with the Ministry of Finance. From the Soyuz Group, the people's deputy Zubec has the word. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! The current nature of today's agenda and its consideration in the session room can be attributed to the committee headed by Nikolayenko, as well as to the national deputies, the academics of the National Academy, and the members of this committee are Yukhnovsky and Sitnik. The well - known innovation of production has recently become increasingly important. Its relevance is particularly increasing for our country, for it builds a market - based society and enters into close productive and state relations with the world’s society. If we constantly declare that Ukraine is an agrarian state, in the agricultural economy agrarian science is a leader of innovative transformations, systematically and consistently implementing them. This is evidenced by the fact that the Institute of Intellectual Property and Innovation has been working in the academy system for several years now, which can be consulted in today's issue of the parliamentary newspaper Voice of Ukraine. In turn, I'd like to take this opportunity to explain a few things. questions that most concern agrarian science. First question block, our priorities. In this question, I would define four ways of doing things. First, the structural reconstruction of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences systems, the creation of an integrated scientific and research network of the Academy of Innovation Infrastructure and the corporateization of scientific and innovation relations. It's different. Moving to a software-based method of financing fundamental and applied research, increasing the value of fundamental research in the overall scope of research and implementation of applied research. Third. Creating an innovative portfolio of orders for science and technology products, creating conditions to enhance their consumer properties, competitiveness and profitability, stimulating venture venture investment processes for science-intensive businesses. And finally, fourth. The creation of systems for capitalization and commercialization of intellectual property rights of scientific research institutions, authors of scientific and investment achievements. A few words about the legislative base. Is the current legislation in place to adapt agrarian science to market conditions? Let us note that during the years of independence, Ukraine has created favourable conditions at the legislative level regarding the acquisition and use of intellectual property rights. The basic laws of Ukraine have been adopted in the area of innovation, innovation, the priority directions for innovation in Ukraine, and the special regime for investment and innovation in technology parks. Ukraine's Innovation Act defines mechanisms for stimulating and financing innovation activities, both for state and non-state entities, creates conditions for inclusion in the scientific and technological and innovation sphere of any financial resource of any origin, facilitates the introduction of modern environmental, safe energy and resource-efficient technologies, production and implementation of new types of competitive production. However, these mechanisms remained declared, as the State Budget Act of 2003 suspended the operation of the rules on the characteristics and taxation and customs regulation of innovation. So it is now necessary to improve it in the area of innovation project expertise, tax and customs optimization for innovation subjects, and the conditions for the enterprise to be given innovative status. To this end, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Innovation Act accordingly. The Ukrainian Act on Priorities for Innovation in Ukraine promotes the concentration of the State's resources on the leading scientific and technical development of production. At the same time, securing the internal market with competitive scientific output and exit to the world market should take into account the opportunities and needs of domestic business that have not been reflected in this law. To date, only Ukraine’s Special Investment and Innovation Regime Act has set up a number of tax and customs benefits for investors and innovation projects in technological parks that will allow for an increase in the amount of innovation that has been made. But only these innovation structures for Ukraine are very few. In summary, the application of Ukrainian legislation in the field of innovation, unfortunately, is not yet fully in line with the real conditions of the country's transition to innovative ways out of this, has been said here by many speakers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u53	Thank you. The word comes from the Faction BUT National Deputy School. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u54	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to state the faction's position on the point that science has to be funded. That's all that matters. So we can talk a lot about what needs to be done in one area or another, here as a spell, we repeat this phrase that Ukraine is an agrarian state. I don't know how agrarian she is or how much she can provide herself with bread. Remember this crisis. Did you get me bread? No, it's not. So far, we have exported grain and not yet imported. So here with the agrarians, you don't have to rush with Ukraine's agrarian future. And this is the country that builds its own planes, it's true. A country that has its own space industry is also true. But in order for this to stop being the thing that only we believe in, we have to finance, let science develop. This is the most important precedent. And what do the West say? Corporations have to prepare their own footage. Ukrainian corporations, Ukrainian companies have to prepare their own personnel, and they need to know that their government is encouraging them to invest in science. If they invest money in science, they pay less taxes. And the examples of Western countries in this are completely objective. Because the level of scientific development that we had ten years ago did not yield much. Now it's coming down seriously enough because it's lost, very large areas of scientific lost, very many scientific research institutions have been the victim of capture processes because they've been located in good places either in the city center or in shadowy parks and alleys, which have become the object of the desires of many unclean people at the hands of entrepreneurs. And because of what should be done in principle? There is a need to regulate tax dependence on the introduction of money into science. The more he invested, the less he paid the State for the things for which the wages are, in principle, very little understood and little motivated. For example, such a thing as a tax on added value. And this is where you can regulate the budget's filling, not by depriving it of its ability to fill, but at the same time, to fill in science. Because science is a budgetary sphere. If an enterprise invests money in the development of science, in the development of the budget, why there should still be an intermediary here, an intermediary who takes money out of one pocket, holds a little bit in his hands, leaves a percentage and translates it into another. There is a need for direct funding of science. The next one is patenting. You know, the famous story is that the first laser disk, the first recording and reading system was offered by Ukraine, in Ukraine. This has never been used by the Soviet Union, as has often been the case, nor has Ukraine. And I didn't hear from the Minister of Education here, I didn't hear the answer to that question, how much good statistics did I get, how many doctors of science and candidates go out, but how many patents come from invention to introduction -- first and second -- how many patents are patented in Ukraine, and how many patents are exported abroad and patented there? Why should the man who made the invention pay for all the expenses? Why does this material, very often insurmountable obligation depend on it? I think each of the national MPs here has met with local inventors: let them not invent a time machine, they didn't invent an eternal engine, but development, innovation technology is being offered. And they say, finance, I want this invention to stay in Ukraine, find the funds. And if the state can't do that, that's to encourage innovation, well, I have some questions here, because patenting is the direct interest of the state. What's a patent? This is the right of the state to invent. So the inventor does not have or should not pay for the services that the state should pay. Privatization of scientific research institutions. Look, it's already been said. But look what's happening is just with higher education institutions, what fate has encountered trainee students who have had to come to the walls of the Supreme Council to protect themselves in order to protect their right to learn, because their school is located in a very prestigious area of Kiev. Then we can say that the Academy of Sciences in the prestigious region of Kiev is also located. And so many others. And the Supreme Council, in which the prestigious district of Kiev is located! Maybe we're privatizing it too?Oh, my God! I don't know what we can get into in these privatization processes, I'd say, "receptive" processes. This should not affect the development of science. It's a semi-empty audience today, but tomorrow they'll be filled with new students to save the institute's area.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u55	The word from the faction "Democratic Initiatives. The people's government has a national deputy named Gurov. Get ready for Joulinsky and we'll be done with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs, respected Boris Evgenyevich! Let's have a little dream. You know, it's all about money, money, money. Here you go, 1.7 percent. Why? What are we so thirsty for? Let's give you five percent. What will change in our country? Well, science will flourish, new ideas will emerge. Furthermore, our young people will not go abroad. Keep dreaming. It'll be all right. Next, they'll invent so much know-how that the world hasn't invented so much! And I said, "Well, what happens next?" And when we answer that question, further, if we answer those questions, then perhaps we should ask the fundamental question that we are talking about for two hours. Why we, Ukraine, with the invention of the century -- a continuous spill of steel, a sizable spill, a dust-and-coal inhalation -- we've already done this in Soviet times and we're doing it now. But the more serious question is, why are the Japanese, or are they more accommodating than we are or are more talented, how did they get out of their deadlock? They started buying all the know-how, not afraid to spend money. As a result, they made a leap. What are we doing now? The continuous spill has been invented in our country, and it has been introduced into Japan, China, virtually the whole world is working on a continuous cast of steel, and in Ukraine only 18 per cent. And we want to invent something else. Coal dust. The same thing is: our compatriots invented this way, where it replaces the coked coal site, about 200 kilograms of dust, the usual coal dust, and the first plant, the Donetsk metal mill, is already using about 100 kilograms. But why is it that the rest of them remain silent, why are the masters who privatized them, and why are they not moving this science? What do we have to invent another bike when it's ready? The third example, the spherical spill, this revolution was in a spilly business, and we invented it too. Why does the whole world work on this technology and we don't work? So I want to tell you, dreamers, that's our tragedy. Yeah, we'll do everything -- just then, what's intellectual about this work, what's to be done next? And so if we don't find a way, how do we make our industry and who's in charge of this industry, we're not going to succeed: we're going to work with a lot of enthusiasm for the basket, which is what we're doing now very and very successfully. That's my deep conviction. Because even if we implement those things that I said, we're going to lose the coke problem right now, we're going to have a metal waste problem because we're going to lose 15 percent of the pure metal. So why don't we? That is the question that must be answered by this governmental and parliamentary or hearing, or the Government Day. So far, I have not heard the answer to that question. And the second question. I refer specifically to the Minister of Education. You all said how well 12 years to learn how to provide books like that, but there's no question of technical schools. It's a proletariat to the bone brain. It's our future. You see, 11,000 children are in technical schools in the Horn of Curve. And you're going to ask, are there computer classes in technical schools? We're all here for agriculture. The proletariat is prepared in the accounts, there are no computer classes. But this is the foundation, the foundation. Without solving the problem, Pete, Vanya, Masha, she will come, and she will not be Peter Ivanovich and Mary. That's where we're going, and science, too. And money is just to see where we use it properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u57	Thank you. From the faction "Our Ukraine" is Mikola Grigorovich Zulinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u58	Mikola Joulinsky, Victor Yushchenka faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, revered Boris Eugenovich, distinguished members of the government, colleagues! Today, American philosopher Francis Fukoyama in his work "The End of History." The last man" mentions Plato's state, and there he is. I think it's a very interesting episode. Philosopher Socrates leads a dialogue with young Greek aristocrats Glaucoma and Ademitis, and they teach the concept of a "just city." And they consider the most important factor to be the guard, the protection that this city must provide against the enemy outside. Socrates tells them it's all right, but they have to own this -- this guard -- one particular thing -- Timos. In Greek, it's "spirituality, spirituality." Why does Francis Fucoyama mention this mysterious factor in the human soul called the "timos"? He thinks it's a very important factor that has a major impact today on the mood of society and especially those societies that are moving into a new stage -- the stage of the market economy. We in Ukraine see traditional policies as a determining factor in economic reforms, while policies are necessary, but not a decisive prerequisite for achieving high growth rates. Fucoyama states -- quote: "Irrational forms of Timos -- religion, nationalism, the ability of crafts and professions to support work standards and pride from work -- all of this continues to affect economic behaviour in many ways that contribute to the country's wealth or poverty." Obviously, there is a truth today that international relations are not shaping ideologies that are still competing with each other, they are not determining the temperature of the planetary political climate. Competition in international life has gone to the level of culture, to the level of intelligence, to the level of education and science that, in the process of industrialization and the society of globalization, remains or is not the only forpost that protects one nation or another, the people from assimilational corrosion. Modern science deters industrialization, stimulates the emergence of an information society, and thus inevitably stimulates the formation of a knowledge society. Obviously, the national education and scientific sphere should be the most important target of long-term investment, and it's not an economic problem, it's a barometer of the moral sense of society. Not by chance did William von Humboldt, a prominent reformer of the Prussian school system, claim that higher scientific institutions are not only the tip of the educational system but also the tip of the nation’s moral culture. Why is modern - day Ukrainian society rather skeptical and unsuspecting about science? Why is education not at the forefront of the average Ukrainian person? According to sociological research conducted by the Razumkova Centre, among the 33 problems faced by Ukrainian citizens, the failure of the family to give a child a special or higher education has 15th place, and the failure of the family to give a child a quality education at school has 21st place. What support for innovation especially in the scientific field of Ukrainian society can be discussed when the proportion of people living outside the poverty line is 26 percent and in rural areas is over 31 percent. And, of course, the spiritual and moral tone of the nation depends on the people’s understanding, their awareness of the prospects for society. We need to give people hope and understanding that this is an inevitable and necessary process. I also wanted to say two words about the fact that the national doctrine of the development of education introduced today by the Ministry of Culture is in line with these interests, meeting this strategic goal of the Ukrainian people, but unfortunately funding does not meet the needs that it needs. And the foundation of human knowledge is fundamental science, and we need to remember both the authorities and society. Its development should be provided exclusively from government funds. The state has to pay dearly to ensure that freedom of education and freedom of scientific research can be properly organized and ensured. Universities and the Academy of Sciences are counting on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u59	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u60	interests are beyond the everyday interests of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u61	Thank you. Representatives of all the factions who wanted to participate took part, and we had eight national deputies enrolled and required at least one to give the people a word. Then, please, Rodionov, or Mironenko? Please, Mironenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u62	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Regrettably, the distinguished compatriots, these words, the beautiful words, the clever, the kind words spoken from this rostrum, can only remain declarative, without adequate financial support, and it, of course, this reinforcement can take place very soon because all the same privatization processes have contributed to the fact that the income portion of the budget has fallen somewhat over the socialist period, and it has not been seen that this part is growing. I'm going to give you one terrible example of the destruction of science. The Southern Research Institute for the Development of Fisheries and Oceanography is in fact being destroyed, although it is needed by Ukraine for the development of science and economy. In one and a half years, the Institute's staff decreased by one and a half years, the number of employees decreased by two and a half years, one hundred staff members were dismissed and wages were still outstanding. Undoubtedly, we take into account the need to invest in science for the future, because scientists, real scientists, have been preparing decades. Unfortunately, we have scientists leaving science and this is linked to our reality. Undoubtedly, it is necessary to create, finally and from words to words, to create a bank for reconstruction and development, and it is always said, but nothing is done; tax benefits, real tax benefits must be provided, and we often hear that this is difficult for the State. Well, and I will certainly repeat once again, the privatization of the general must be completed, and the nationalization of the strategic sectors of the budgeting industry must be ensured. From here, there will be resources for the development of science. Without it, nothing good will happen in science. And I'm asking the rest of the time to hand it over to Rodion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u63	Thank you. You don't have time left. Dear colleagues, we're going to beat you up. Dear colleagues, I repeat, you and I have agreed that the discussion will take up to 12 hours, please take a look at the monitors. That's the first one. The other one. Calm down. The other one. Then, when you make a decision about Government Day, think about what you are voting for. We voted that we are considering two issues today, which means that two of us are not going to consider matters at the expense of each other, because the other is no less important than the first question. And so, please, the claims are not before the person who is leading the session, the claims against yourself when you make decisions about the days of the government. Dear colleagues, the procedure has been completed. There will be a procedure on the second issue. In fact, the question is quite important, and that's what they're talking about. I don't think there's a lot of claims to the Supreme Council about the legislative provision of the problem that we talked about. The problem is different. And here Boris Evgenovich made it clear and said it right. The ancients remember that somewhere in 1998-1999 we in the Supreme Council did a lot of legislative work with you to keep our Academy of Sciences on its feet. And thanks to these legislative acts and our efforts together, it's back on track. The problem now, as we can see, is another, that we really have at least the minimum legislative base that we already have, to ensure that it is implemented 100 percent in terms of such a priority area that we are speaking about today, and we hope that every year we will pick up pace in this very important matter. We need to make a decision with you respectable colleagues. Well, given the situation in the hall, let's do it, let's have a committee. What? Let the committee work, bring in the project, and we'll be in on a session day. Although I repeat, we are having a session today, but during the session we are discussing the issue of Government Day. For this I thank all who took part in the first question. Break to 12:30 is announced. At 12:30, we're going to consider the next issue of Government Day, which is the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the residential sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, we will continue our meeting. We have one more question today that we have to discuss on Government Day: The State and Formation of Prices and Tariffs in the Housing and Utilities Sector. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Alohin Volodymyr Illich. There is a family tragedy in the head of the committee, so the first deputy will report. Yes, 15 minutes and 30 minutes per question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government, are invited! The Government's day-to-day "About the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the residential sector" is extremely relevant because tariff policy is the key to determining further developments in the sector, improving the quality of housing services and ensuring their accessibility to the general population. Established in the early 1990s, government policies in this area are aimed at paying full housing and utility services directly to their consumers, and subsidies to housing companies from the State Budget are replaced by housing subsidies for the population. According to the 2003 work, housing and utilities were given to the population, to other consumers of services in a cost-effective statement of eight billion dollars. However, nearly one and a half billion dollars of money are not compensated for by incomes earned, resulting in a reduction in the amount of payment obligations to the budget, inefficient use of depreciation deductions, an increase in credit debt for energy, and payment of wages. The level of housing costs varies from 100 percent in Kiev, Volinsky, Sumski, to 63 percent in Hmelnicki. The utility companies -- from 100 percent in the Chernigiv region to 59th in the Hersonian region. Water and sanitation -- from 97 percent in Zaporzik, to 50 percent in Crimea. To date, accounts receivable and payable amounted to nearly nine billion dollars. Dear National Deputies! The main factors in reducing the level of cost-recovery of services by operating tariffs and increasing the cost-effectiveness of residential and utility enterprises are the rise in prices for energy costs of materials and minimum wage levels, the deterioration of the technical state of the core funds. It is estimated that the project of the National Programme for the Development and Development of Housing and Utilities only requires more than 34 billion dollars to implement the priority measures for reforming the sector. Clearly, this problem cannot be solved by mechanically increasing tariffs, it can lead to lower levels of collection of payments, the refusal of some consumers to use centralized water-, heat and water-conducting systems. The main task of the government today is to form such a public tariff policy that would allow for a balance of the social interests of producers, suppliers and consumers of residential services. Municipal hearings, housing reform of the local and regional development priorities, joint meetings of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, joint meetings of the Committee of the High Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, joint colleges of the State and Regional Governments, round tables at public participation to allow the identification of problems that cannot be addressed without funding, the recovery of the sector, taking into account the real needs of all population groups for housing services and available financial resources. The first problem is that the system of valid legal acts is not stimulating and encouraging to reduce costs and improve the efficiency of businesses, because tariff formation is mainly based on actual costs over the past years. Administrative, commercial, other operating costs, particularly during the past year, have increased the cost of water and sanitation services by only 7 percent and other operating costs by 86 percent. The second problem is that industry depends largely on price policy in a fuel-energy complex in relation to a large share of energy-intensive energy in the structure of self-sustainment. In particular, it is about 60 percent in heat supply, 30 percent in water supply. The current practice of the monthly change in electricity tariffs for housing-communal companies has a very negative impact on their financial situation. The third problem is that there's a significant differentiation in the income of the population, both in the region and at each of the locations. According to the State Department, the average monthly household expenses in the Zakartat region amount to 390 dollars, 959 dollars in the city. The national average expenditure on residential services is 10.3 percent of the total cost of the family. However, given the uneven level of material security in the population, almost a third of families are already spending up to 18 percent of their own income on housing services. If tariffs rise to 20 percent, about half of the citizens will need social assistance from the state. Cross-subsidisation practices in individual regions increase the burden on industrial consumers and reduce the competitiveness of their products. Yes, in Crimea the tariff for water services is 15-20 times higher than the tariff for the population. The fourth problem is that the Local Self-Government Act in Ukraine and the local government administrations have been given authority to approve and regulate individual housing and utilities tariffs for both local government and government administrations. This has led to some misunderstandings about the distribution of powers, especially in the area of housing and innuendo. Local government authorities are not interested in involving private enterprises in housing and utility services, although they work more effectively than utilities because they lose tariff approval rights while reducing revenues to local budgets. In addition, the absence of standard tariff procedures leads to subjectivity in the relationship between enterprises and authorized authorities in part of the tariff review process. In order to improve the regulatory base for pricing and tariff formation in the residential sector, the government has done the following. First: a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and on Local Government Administrations, which provides for rural, rural and urban administrations to authorize the establishment of housing and utility tariffs, which are provided by enterprises of all forms of property other than those held jointly by territorial communities. For the latest tariffs, local government administrations should set up. They also have the function of providing methodological assistance to local governments and monitoring the enforcement of effective pricing legislation. The other one. In accordance with article 191 of the Code of Masters for the Compensation of Loss of Income from Housing and Utilities Enterprises, a draft law of Ukraine amending article 9 of the Law on Prices and Prices has been developed to amend the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. Third. New tariffs are being introduced for residential services, which reinforce the requirements for the restriction of individual component tariffs. In particular, when calculating tariffs for other operating expenses, it is not possible to include the amount of hopeless receivables, the cost of maintaining social infrastructure, fines, pennies, the amount of sponsorship and charity, and a number of nonproductive expenses. At the same time, an investment component is included in the composition of the tariff on the basis of the company’s development program approved by the local council. The left share of the investment component should consist of income from industrial consumers and budget organizations. The government is now working on the President's mandate to develop and implement country-wide approaches to housing tariffs. The most complaints come from citizens about the inadequacy of housing tariffs, the quality of services, housing and maintenance organizations and the absence of tariff differentiation, depending on the location of the technical condition and the engineering of the buildings. Pilot projects on housing maintenance reform are being implemented to prepare appropriate legal acts in various cities in Ukraine. In the cities of Lutsk and Equine, differentiated tariffs have been set for each house and work lists have been approved within the existing tariff. In the Dnipropetrov region, income and expenditure cards are introduced for each individual building. On the basis of the experience already gained, a new order is being drawn up to determine how to pay for the maintenance of housing and accommodating areas with mandatory allocations of all components of expenses, so that everyone knows what he is paying for. In our view, we need to determine the minimum number of services provided by the housing and maintenance organizations needed to maintain sanitary requirements and to operate the safety of houses and to set the minimum size of the apartment's salary, which must be paid to all residents regardless of their place of residence. The second important policy in this area is to reduce the cost of services, reduce non-productive costs, and lose all stages of production, and provide services. As instructed by the President of Ukraine in order to strengthen the monitoring of price and tariff discipline during the past year, two thousand 377 households of housing and utilities were checked by experts from the General Audit Office, Mine Economics, the State Price Control Inspectorate, the Anti-Monopoly Committee and the State Tax Administration. In this regard, virtually all basic heating and plumbing companies have been involved. As a result of the checks on the budget of 107.9 million dollars in revenue, it is in line with the requirements of legislation of a thousand 74 tariffs, warning consumers to calculate almost 14.5 million dollars. An administrative fine of 47.2 thousand dollars has been imposed on 542 officials whose guilt has been violated. Control over the correct design and application of housing and utility tariffs will continue to be carried out on a permanent basis. A major factor in reducing the cost of services is the severe adjustment of all costs. First of all, it's about monopolists. The relevant document has been prepared by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and is now under consideration by the Government. However, in order to better address resource conservation problems, in addition to regulation, a method of stimulating or encouraging regulation should be added, using economic values, competition, media publishing the main indicators of business activity. Another component of the government's work is the social protection of the population, both on the part of the State through housing subsidies and local self-government, as well as support for housing and utility development. Last year, population payments for residential services were reduced by 772 million dollars at the expense of granting subsidies. The largest proportion of recipients of subsidies is pensioners -- over 61 percent and children under 16 years of age -- up to 14 percent. It should be noted that between 2000 and 2003, the number of families applying for grants fell from 5.4 million and 3 million families. At the same time, the average monthly amount of subsidies per family decreased. This is evidence that local governments do not make full use of housing subsidies available to protect the underprivileged population. As an effective example of support from local authorities, the experience of the city of Odessa is illustrated. In 2003, $14,000 was paid and paid off for housing and utilities. The city's population is 2.9 million dollars. However, the budgets of small population areas because of a large deficit of funds cannot provide additional assistance to citizens and maintain housing facilities at the right level. Thus, only three percent of the budget remains in the town of Wüszar of Donetské region for the second basket, which is used in residential and utility farming. In order to address this problem, proposals have been prepared to amend the Budget Code to increase the income of local budgets, which are not included in the determination of the amount of inter-budget transfers. According to a meeting on housing and utility development held in Odessa in March this year, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovič, Prime Minister of Ukraine, commissioned: to provide a subsidy to local budgets to finance the work of the phased housing programme, housing and water and thermal energy management. And also, the cost of holding the Komongosp is 200 million dollars. A bracelet for the acquisition of domestic tram cars and trolleybuses on the condition of 50 percent co-financing from local budgets. Finally, I would like to point out that the implementation of the State tariff policy, which is to be transparent, clear, stimulating, predictable, based on the principles of economic justification, production costs and fair compensation, is impossible without the consolidation of the efforts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the local executive authorities and local self-government. Honourable national deputies will, after first reading the draft National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing for the period 2004-2010, take into account all comments and proposals made regarding the development of regulatory mechanisms, national and regional standards, the marginal cost of housing and utility services, investment policies in this area, mechanisms for coordinating the activities of government regulators and local self-government bodies in the process of setting prices and tariffs on adjacent housing and utility markets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Illich. Yes, we have 30 minutes to ask. Please sign up. Lighten up. Please, Karmazin. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u67	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Illich, I listened carefully to your speech and got acquainted with the material, but I did not see the answer to one question. Now the whole of Ukraine is groaning over 60 percent of fuel prices. You probably know that. And even those government declaration statements that they're going to lower prices there and so on, they show that the government doesn't control the situation and doesn't run the country. How will the increase in fuel prices be reflected in the rise in housing and utility prices? And how and what can be prevented, including the use of energy - efficient technologies? Because that's something the people of Ukraine can't do. I'd like to hear your reasonable answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u68	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Indeed, the government is now developing a set of measures to stabilize oil prices. And they're being developed, they're already being implemented. But whether or not it affects tariffs and pricing in housing and utilities. It can't help, because if you take out the garbage, you usually have to load the car, if you're handling the water line, you also have to run the car. However, a meeting with the district authorities has been held today. And now there's work to reduce the use of road transport as much as possible to reduce the exact burden on tariff policy. But today we want you to understand, both the committee and the government, and we want you to understand. Of course, tariff regulations are needed according to situations that sometimes arise as a major force. In this case, there's an increase in energy prices. Questions Are Written?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u69	Yes, please, Volodymyr Illihu, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u70	Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. As we know, the housing-communal stock ratio exceeds 90 percent. And it takes about 40 billion dollars to recover it from the Sustainable Komongosp information. By what means will these measures be financed? First of all, according to the People's Deputies, about 60 percent of the population needs to be updated. And the amount in the state programme is. But what sources? First of all, of course, the committee is carrying out an appropriate work to reduce irrational costs and the cost of manufacturing services. The consumption of the value of the services received will allow more than 2.8 billion dollars to be involved in the collection of payments. And today, the committee's work is designed to primarily reduce the cost of production. What are the sources of funding? First of all, it's private equity, local government budgets according to the Budget Code. But, of course, government support, as set out in the first, was accepted in the first reading of the national program. A set of measures and cost reductions and allocations will enable housing and utilities to be brought to normal conditions and to provide quality services.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u71	Please, the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u72	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Droguncs. And I have such questions for you. Dear reporter, compared to the Soviet period, we'll take as many as 90 years, and the tariffs and prices for housing and utilities have increased 10-20 times! What happened with the income and the salary, you know, it's the same ratio that it's gotten smaller. And I know you're under pressure from both the Monetary Fund and the International Bank, and whoever's not pushing you to raise tariffs to the world level. At the same time, when they did, did they say once that, honourable communists, would you ask the question of raising wages to the world level so that these prices could be balanced with the appropriate population capacity? I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u73	I see. In the report, you heard that your material had as much income as now the difference had grown, and the city of Kiev and Sappa were cited as an example. At the same time, of course, prices and tariffs in some regions have not been reviewed for quite some time. In 2000, housing and utility tariffs were largely revised and, as a result, almost a hundred percent of those were compensations. You're talking about the International Monetary Fund. But let's put ourselves in the position of the head of the residential-communal business. Today it's a calculated enterprise. Can it work if the tariff, the cost does not correspond to that tariff, and the compensation does not correspond to 100 percent? Can they not provide services properly if there is no circulation and there is nothing to depreciate the business and provide quality services? Today, the government and the committee are doing an appropriate job to reduce the cost of service delivery, attract additional funds at the expense of investment, at the expense of private equity, and thereby improve the quality of service delivery. I realize there might be another reaction today, but even in the city of Odessa, if the price of water for the second category of consumption was raised last year and Odessa received 12 million dollars, which made it possible to improve the water supply system itself. As a result, we can now say that the investor has gone to Odessa. Of course, these are unique examples, but it is much better if there were more examples.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u74	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u75	Social Policy and Labour Committee: "Is there an active State control mechanism and a state-wide coordination of the actions of public authorities, executive authorities and local self-government, involving public control in the formation of housing and utility tariffs. What are the results of this work?" Dear national deputies, the issue of tariff justification is under constant control by the government and the central and local authorities. The Ministry of Economics, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Statecommunosp, the State Consumer, the State Price Control Inspectorate on a permanent basis are being tested for compliance with State price discipline and antimonopoly legislation at the stage of setting and applying tariffs. With regard to public price control in the housing sector and the Mineconomy initiative, a draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Law on Natural Monopolies, which provides for enhanced control of monopolistic practices of operators when setting prices and tariffs by means of public participation in this process, has been developed. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen open hearings and tariffs for monopolies with all executive authorities. And in addition to this, a public council has been set up at Derjkomongop, which is now working to make more specific comments and suggestions on the legal instruments that have been developed and at the same time to bring to consumers the services that are being done by the government and the Committee to improve the situation in housing and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u76	Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u77	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Please tell the population debt for residential services has reached, practically, 8 billion. The Supreme Council had adopted a bill on debt restructuring, which allowed the population to extend its debt by several years. Is there a shift in the introduction of this law? That's one question. And the second. In 2002, the united Social Democrats in the elections raised the subject: the 2005 crisis. We warned that in 2005 we would see that the demolition of the core funds would reach a critical limit. Today we're talking about 70 percent of the main funds in the sector. What awaits us in the future? Sooner or later we'll get to the critical limit. What's next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. In line with the adopted Civil Debt Restructuring Act, this gave some impetus -- and increased payments, concluded by 10 percent of contracts, and payments increased. This has also enabled the current housing and utility bills to be raised. But there is a problem today. Housing and utility companies have no ability to restructure their debt to power-generating enterprises before the budget. And that's why the Government's draft Amendments Act, the restructuring of housing and utility enterprises in front of energy-efficient organizations and in front of the budget, is now under preparation. As far as the fund is concerned. Indeed, there is a problem. And this has been stated repeatedly. And I'm convinced that the vast majority of the people's deputies, who are in the constituencies, know the state of the housing sector today in the vast majority, because there are examples today where the housing system works and functions normally. The city of Lutsk and the city of Kryvý Rig of Dnipropetrovsk, other regions, can be brought in. But in the vast majority, indeed, there is a problem. And here, first of all, on the one hand, when we say that tariffs don't go up, we make it dependent on the local population and the consumers. On the other hand, it's almost impossible to raise tariffs today because they're already at a certain limit: 18 percent, we said that by the time you raise 20, you're going to have to give everyone subsidies. But today the government and the committee are doing, first of all, energy conservation measures, and this government, I've already said, provides for some funds in the 2005 budget. If you and I are considering a reform and development national programme and today it is being developed by the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Transport, and Communications, there may be some of these issues and your suggestions may be included in the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u79	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u80	Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. "Can rising prices and tariffs on residential services be seen as the only way to ensure the profitability of residential-communal enterprises?".. Of course, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We've already talked to you about the profitability of residential-communal enterprises, primarily due to tariffs. But today the government is doing an appropriate job for each enterprise to develop an energy conservation programme, to implement energy-saving technologies and regional programs in the design and development of such measures. Such measures are also provided for in the National Program. So the joint actions, when the energy consumption is down, of course the tariffs will be down, because in the materials you're given, you saw that the main part of the energy supply is the energy supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u81	Please, Bagger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u82	Mikhailo Bager, Chernovets region, electoral district 204, Trudova Ukraine faction. Dear Vladimir Illich, two practical questions, pragmatic. First. Of course, the tariffs depend on the supply of heat, depending on many factors. Who owns them? Is there a program for transferring school cemeteries to your office, and when will this work be completed? Second question. It's clear that we've long since given up on the great feats of monsters that we still have, and it's clear that many are losing their way to heat. Please tell me. Before, they've moved on to building mini-wrecks in the house. Whether such a program exists in Ukraine and how it is planned to move on to this economically advantageous one. A convenient form of work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! As far as school cemeteries are concerned. This is probably a little bit broader, because according to the functions of the State Committee on Housing and Social Affairs and the commission of both the President and the government, there is definitely a requirement that the rural utility should be in the single housing and utility system. And on this point, there have been numerous meetings in the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, and now this work is being done, but the relevant issues are not yet resolved. But now the housing and utility industry is working to develop the rural network. And for example, a seminar at the end of June to show what can be done is being planned on the basis of the Biological Region of the Hersonian region. And there are these examples in the Donetsk region, some of them are in the Hmelnick and some of them. As for the heat-energy monsters. Indeed, it is a natural monopoly, and today the question is clear, both the preservation of centralized heat supply and the demonopolization of this system. Saving, of course, if it's a big city, and you have to save it. But demonopolization, if over 500 meters, is needed to pull the net to heat up one house, it is better to install an autonomous heating system. Today the committee is working on what can be saved: the setting up of roofed boilers, in some regions individual heating, but not individual apartments, but a stand or a house, then it makes sense. These measures are under control today, and they have room. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u84	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u85	The Committee on Environmental Policy, the Environment and the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. What is planned by the government to continue to set up the rent transparently and clearly for the population? Dear National Deputies! With a view to improving the regulatory base and creating tariffs for maintenance of buildings and trailers, work has been started to change the order for the determination of standard costs in residential and operational organizations related to the maintenance of houses and trailers approved by the Order of the State in 1999, the establishment of housing and utility tariffs prior to their publication and discussion with the public. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a clear question: before we do any action or tariff change or business change, we have to tell people everything in order to understand what is going on, what is going on, what is going to be done to foster housing or local authorities in order to improve the situation in housing and utilities. When a seminar with media was held in April, it was pointed out that by working together we should objectively say the positive that is and the negatives that are in place today. After all, the report showed how many negative examples of more than 2.5 thousand enterprises were found during the test. I don't want to translate everything into local self-government today, but according to the Local Self-Government Act, it is the local authorities who are responsible for the rational use of municipal property and the development of the area. And this State Committee is working together on what needs to be done to improve the legal framework and which needs to be implemented in future joint action and action.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u86	Please, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u87	Dear Vladimir Ilic, two questions. First, do we have an area today, an area, or a city that we could define as an asset in housing and utilities and where we could learn from it? And the second. With regard to the investment attractiveness of housing and utilities as a whole, it is not possible to achieve attractiveness without cost-effective work. So, what's your estimate on how profitable this is going to be? Because it will require both fiscally appropriate inflows and allocations and work to improve self-sufficiency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. As far as best experience is concerned. Today, 13 pilot projects on the development of industries are being launched on the State Committee, together with local self - government authorities. This applies to housing, and the development of the water supply sector, and the development of heat, and the integration of rural utilities into a single system based on the Bachchisarai district of Crimea and other measures. Thus, we can today be used as single examples. I've already called the example of the Dnipropetrov area of the utility card. After they're introduced, people know where the money goes in the house. But there is another question that it is difficult to concentrate these costs on the current repairs, such as the entire house. Today, there are isolated examples in the city of Lutsk, which has already been done, and each house has a house - to - house tariff. But to say that a complex approach to all the indicators at a particular place is still difficult. We are now working to explain and explain to the population where this work is done better, according to the criteria for assessing the work of cities and population. But today there is no complex approach. As far as cost-effective work is concerned. Indeed, housing-communal enterprises are ordinary businesses of market relations and have to work with profitability. We're not talking about the profitability of these enterprises today, because businesses work for damages. If the tariff is cost-effective by 70 to 80 percent, and in some regions by 50 percent, the company has to work manually. There are companies that pay for energy in one month, pay salaries in the second month, pay taxes in the third month, because they're first-line payments. And, of course, it's missing, there's absolutely no funding for the current implementation and development of the enterprise. And this is primarily a focus on energy reduction. In line with the order in which tariffs are introduced in water supply, where they are already introduced there is an investment element and there is a positive. And the government is now working on the order of tariffs for heat and other forms of tariff formation for other services.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u89	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u90	Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Is there a reduction in prices and tariffs in the housing and utilities of the most vulnerable population category — pensioners, war veterans and workers? Respectable national MPs, the social protection of underprivileged citizens is provided through a housing grant program. Government funds are usually directed to vulnerable populations. Especially if only pensioners and other incapacitated citizens are registered, or if underage children are enrolled, the first and second group disabled, and the average monthly total income per resident does not exceed 50 percent of the subsistence minimum. And now, you know, in certain regions, targeted social assistance is being introduced. And the discount for a particular category today according to the existing legal and regulatory framework for all is known that almost 17 billion are already granted to all categories of citizens of the benefits, including housing and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u91	Please, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Shibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u93	Shibka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u94	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovsk. Vladimir Ilić, you know, here's every mayor at his own risk and at his own risk he can raise the tariffs, especially when it's indicative of what went wrong in. Dnepropetrov area, where the mayor simply decided to increase tariffs by 2.8. Please tell me, despite the opinion of the inhabitants, do you know about this to your committee, do you have a method of accounting, and be prepared that in time we will come to a common approach to determining these tariffs precisely from your application, with your method that you should develop? And I have recourse to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. So far, there's been another abuse of what's going on around the Chrysalis. Today a case is referred, an invitation from Semenyuk, who handed over, from the Doleski court to Pechersky. From Glossievsky to Pechersky. Of course, this court is under the authority. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u95	Dear Vitalia Yakovich, regarding the only method, I've already said that right now, according to the mandate of the President, the government and the committee are working specifically on this. As far as the city of Pritrovensk is concerned. Given that housing and utility companies were directly subordinated to the First Graduation Dnipropetrov region of Pavlogradwoglu and were financed and supported by the subsidies of the Pavlogradwogul company itself, after they had been handed over to local governments according to the legislation, of course they had to set tariffs that were self-sustainment, which was done by local authorities. So for the population, of course, it wasn't clear at first. And here's another confirmation that the authorities of local self-government need to explain everything to the population before they take certain steps. But you asked, is that true legislation? Legislation is in line with that. And today, as far as I know, there's no conflict there anymore, because the local authorities are a little bit supplanting housing enterprises for a given period.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u96	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u97	Special Privatization Monitoring Commission: "How much is the monthly cost of cold, hot water per person? Moreover, the quality of these services does not always meet the standards. Do they fit real consumption and how are tariffs calculated?" Dear National Deputies, the position of the government and the committee to set up the counters, and I spoke about this in a report that is the mandate of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to carry out this work actively. And there's a software for setting up accounting devices. That's the first thing that's going to be accurate that's going to correspond to the number of services provided. But even where they've installed it, there are times when they've installed counters and they're using the counter more than normal. These water consumption standards are being developed according to the NICU, taking into account the local and climate conditions mentioned in paragraph 11.7 of the above mentioned NICU and according to the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations and the Ukrainian Law on Local Administrations, are approved by the local authorities. [[internal water pipelines, sewerage]] Water and water tariffs are calculated according to the order of production and central water supply. And as for the quality of the service, of course, there's nothing to appeal about here, because the example of Sujolsk last year showed that if you don't invest in the development of the housing and utility system, it should eventually come out of order. But I'm convinced that in the last term the government has done a great deal to support the housing and utility system, and that's what it's going to cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u98	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u99	Thank you. Now, I would like to ask the honourable reporter a simple question, I think it's understandable to everyone, because here I don't want to do any very specific narrow examples. So you believe, personally, in the profitability of the community service, you believe that it will be profitable, that neither the state nor the city nor the local authority should be subsidized or, at least, promoted? Because you, well, believe that ever a population of even a very rich country, the richest country, can provide public services, doesn't have to. You see how the utility works: it always wants to make itself profitable. For example, the circumcision of trees. Take it, cut it under the root, hand over the wood. You've seen it happen in Kiev. Also, community services are not allowed to be allowed to be kept on farm in this area. There has to be execution control, because it's very serious. So I would like you to give a clear answer, you believe it, and if you do, what is your faith based on?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. Of course I do. And the entire community of the State Committee believes in what can and must be done, otherwise it would not have been submitted to the Supreme Council of the National Housing Reform Programme, otherwise we would not have come to you with proposals for consideration and the Housing Code, although it is both imperfect and other legislative acts. Today, according to the legal and regulatory plan, we need to do more than 70, and this year we just need to work out the legal and regulatory documents. So this work is possible, and we can give an example today: the city of Lutsk, a specific example where tariffs are set at almost 100 percent to self-sustainment, where compensation goes to almost 100 percent of the users of services. And today, there are no problems in providing services in this region, since the city’s head is constantly concerned about the development of its territory. They may be, but today, I say, they're less likely to be right, much less so than in other regions. And it is in the case of the city of Lucca that we can tell how to work. If we say that today in Crimea tariffs have not been reviewed for six years, and the price for the water supply population is 24 copies, and in Lutsk 98 copies, there are only one approaches, but according to the current legislation we cannot manage today from the center. And the last. You said whether to centralize or not. As far as I know, as a third party MP, each Supreme Council must accept the principles of internal and external politics. If such principles are accepted, we must follow them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u101	Please, in writing. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u102	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine: "What measures are being taken by the government to stop local officials from adopting prices and tariffs for residential services? Who among the brave has been responsible for nothing for a well-founded increase in prices and tariffs over the past five years?" Dear national deputies, tariffs cannot be frozen for a certain period of time. We now see that both energy prices, and, according to the decision, every year of the Supreme Council on the minimum wage fund, are changing. And accordingly, of course, prices and tariffs should go up. We're not going anywhere. But they have to grow on a well-founded basis, economically based tariffs. And to do that, there's got to be a specific calculation in every inhabited area. And as for responsibility, I was giving you an example of how many companies have been tested and how many officials have been punished administratively.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u103	Thank you, Vladimir Illich. Have a seat, please. Yeah, we've got a lot going on. I continue for 15 minutes, until 14.15. Let's get away from the factions. From the Soyuz Group, the People's Deputy Nadrag has the floor. Get ready, Buttercup. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! The account. POB: First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, Demöhohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Of course, the time has long come for fundamental housing and utility reform. Also in the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 14 February 2002 on the approval of the Housing Reform and Development Programme for 2002-2005 and for the period to 2010, it was determined that housing and utilities is the most technically viable sector of the economy. Prices and tariffs in housing and utilities should be clearly analysed. I take first place in the energy industry. These figures range from 10 per cent of the housing content of 1 meter to 58 per cent of the cost of heat hygacalories. And the Government's monthly change in electricity tariffs is unacceptable, as these changes have occurred since the Cabinet itself. Second. Costs range from 13 per cent to 36 per cent. Disgusting that the minimum wage increases the minimum wage also raises the cost of services, which is one of the main tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers and the general economic policy of our State. It consists of “other expenses”. Their share is 7 to 16 percent. Think about it! That's what the reserve is, "other expenses." Up to 16 percent. Social participations range from 5 to 11 per cent. This is largely the case with subsidies from the population. Depreciation from 2 to 14. It is in the defined cost components that there is a hidden potential to reduce tariffs and prices. The system of existing legislation is not encouraging and encouraging to reduce losses and improve the efficiency of enterprises in all housing and utilities, as tariff formation is mainly based on actual costs. The outcome is obvious. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, should focus on building, developing and adopting a regulatory framework that would encourage investment and innovation in the reform of the industry, particularly those aimed at energy saving, reducing water consumption, thermal energy and technological losses. There is a need to accelerate the development and approval of regulatory instruments to standard electricity costs for the technological needs of utilities, tariffs for thermal energy and central heating services, heat and hot water supply regulations. There is also a need to strengthen the monitoring of price disciplines and tariffs for the financial and economic activities of housing and utility enterprises. At the legislative level, at least the budget code of Ukraine needs to be amended to cover housing subsidies for low-income citizens. Solve the division of authority between local authorities and public administrations regarding the authority to approve housing and utility tariffs. In order to address this issue, it is necessary to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government and on Local Government Administrations. In the housing and utilities sector, changes are needed to increase the industry's profitability on the basis of an investment and innovation approach. There is a need to create conditions for attracting foreign investors, as well as for entering the sector of domestic investment structures. The next activity is to increase the collection rate for consumers of housing and utility services. In some regions, consumer payments are already sufficient to attract investors. It is between 90 and 100 per cent. However, we must bear in mind the social protection of our fellow countrymen. In this regard, the definition and implementation of the economically sound cost of housing and utility services is seen as an immediate and priority task for the Cabinet of Ministers. Without components such as lacks and loss of values, the allocation of funds to trade union organizations for cultural and sporting work, sponsorship and charity. The entire set of measures mentioned above was reflected in the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for: information by the Cabinet of Ministers on the situation and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere to be taken into account; the work of the government in conducting pricing policies in the housing and utility sphere is not considered sufficient. Thank you for your attention. Please support this draft order in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, from the "Soyuz" group, dear, get ready for Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u106	Respected colleagues, the housing and communal sphere of Ukraine, are currently in a state where, most often, they try not to say anything bad about it as if it were dead. Here are just a few major problems: First. Currently, 30 per cent of the Ukrainian housing fund requires major and ongoing repairs. Second. 50 per cent of the heat consumed by Ukrainian apartments is lost due to insufficient thermal insulation of the windows and walls of the houses. Third. More than 10,000 elevators in Ukraine have spent more than 25 years and require urgent replacement to avoid tragedies. Fourth. There are more than 200,000 people living in emergency homes and buildings in Ukraine. Fifth. 85 per cent of multi-storey houses in Ukraine are not equipped with a fire safety regulatory system. Sixth. More than half of Ukrainian cities with a population of 100,000 are no longer provided with water 24 hours or even on schedule. Seven. The amount of water is constantly deteriorating due to the so-called secondary pollution occurring in the water-intensive system. The reasons for this housing crisis are considered underfunding. However, that is not the case. Experts believe that the problem of underfunding is due to the low level of payment of services to consumers, not only because of this, but because of the abuse of service providers. In addition, it is worth noting that there are a number of problems that also require immediate solutions. First. The practice of contractual relations between consumers of public services and their providers is now virtually lacking. Secondly, with the periodic restructuring of public utility debt, those who paid on time were in a discriminatory position. This stimulates the overall increase in debt. Thirdly, there are no universal criteria for assessing the efficiency of enterprises that provide utilities. In many publications and television programmes, the view is very often expressed that competition is needed in the housing and utility market. However, local authorities simply do not organize open tenders for the selection of service enterprises. Another important problem is that housing is in fact not a full-fledged consumer of utilities, since the apartments are not equipped with heat and water counters. In my view, all these problems require immediate solutions. First of all, this is the adaptation of housing and utility legislation to international standards. This legislation provides for a clear contractual relationship between sellers and consumers of utilities, including sanctions for non-compliance by public service providers, which, unfortunately, is not in our legislation. The responsibility of the lodger under the full programme, the responsibility of the public service provider, depends on the air. Secondly, licensing of housing and utility enterprises was necessary, and the State should not interfere with the relationship between market actors. At the same time, the industry's State Committee should monitor, i.e. survey, compliance of license requirements by the service providers of JCX. We need to understand who is serving and how he is able to fulfil his function of housing service. Thirdly, in the event of poor housing and utility services, local authorities should have the right to tender for a corresponding licence. We must move away from the monopolies in this market not only on the supply of services, but also on who does. It is also worth noting that legislation should clearly indicate the powers of local self-government authorities and local executive authorities in the area of housing and utility regulation to avoid conflict situations. Fourthly, the Government should provide a credit programme for the population with a view to achieving 100 per cent of public utilities by means of water, heat and other means, so to speak, of services that the population receives. Unfortunately, today's large claims are answered by the population: "Put the counters in place, and then we'll talk to you differently." I believe that the State should do so. As a matter of fact. Deeply convinced that if the elevator doesn't go, it's bad. But if the house goes down or the house goes down, it's a tragedy. Therefore, we are deeply convinced that both the legislative power and the executive power must do everything to ensure that, not the human sacrifice, but even the human torment of our negligence in housing and utilities, is as low as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u107	Please, Masenko, he won't make it. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u108	Thank you. But, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure provide even for me. And it should be given if I ask. And what do I mean by that, you see where the factions from which the representatives are speaking today? If a faction sits here and hears what her representative says, maybe it should be done, I don't deny it. But the faction’s half-deputy is present, and you give them five minutes, and they express, not the faction’s opinion, but the faction’s opinion. Where this is provided under the Rules, tell me. I propose, and I'm supported by this group of deputies, so let's cut down on the faction and not at all. The application also states that if it is a performance by a faction or a committee, there should also be a manager to sign. Show me where on one application are the factions of the faction manager, how are the leaders not here? I'm asking for this bad practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u109	Alexander Mikolaiovich, you're absolutely right, but we have a position if. I can put it to a vote right now. I understand your offer, don't take any chances. So Lechchenko, from the Communist faction, prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u110	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. The issue of the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere is being addressed today by the initiative of the Ukrainian Company and its leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenk. Communists can no longer tolerate the abuse of people as a result of the radical market reforms imposed on Ukraine by the International Monetary Fund. We have a private-capital political system that protects interests, secures the profits of power plants, metallurgical combinations, machinery factories, chemical enterprises, or bourgeoisies. The fate of the workers doesn't bother anyone. Communists have always made demands for valid authority, firstly that prices and tariffs match the quality of goods and services, secondly, that they be combined with wages, pensions and other incomes of workers. We have already proposed several times to impose a moratorium on price increases and tariffs until the minimum pension and salary reach a minimum of living. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Presidential majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and part of other national deputies who faithfully serve as domestic and foreign capital against it. They find it convenient to take the last penny from the poor for the sake of fat bourgeoisie. Now it's about housing services. Their quality is very low, and the water to the apartments is often served dirty. Traditionally, water breaks, especially hot water, have been found for a long period of time. Inhabitant air temperatures during the winter period do not meet the standards. Many buildings, driveways, and surrounding areas look plentiful. Engineering networks are worn out, water loss, and heat on their way to the consumer are impressive, and experts say they are already 50 percent. On the one hand, the state has deliberately put in the hands of mediators, monopolists, a strategically important activity: energy supply. And now they're overpriced, destroying our economy and our social sphere. On the other hand, the state is holding back the growth of citizens' incomes, which therefore do not have the capacity to pay excessively high tariffs for residential services, which include, by the way, the loss of water and heat in water and heat. And then there's the foreign benefactors, in paws, they're only paying a hundred percent for residential services. The subsidies discussed here are a disgrace to the state and the humiliation of citizens. So the debt for payment and housing services is already approaching eight billion dollars. In doing so, no one pays attention to the debt on the pay. The new Housing Code provides for those who are in debt for services to be deprived of their homes through the courts. That's unacceptable. Analysis and reference materials on Government Day 1, page 1, indicate that the tariffs on utility services in Ukraine increased by 3.9 percent in the first quarter of this year. It's okay. However, in Chernigov, for example, water and water services increased by 53 percent, and heat supplies by 72 percent. At the initiative of the Communists during January-March 2004, four stages of protests against the use of power took place at the walls of the district government. Similar measures have taken place in other cities and districts. As Ukraine's national deputy, I have repeatedly made inquiries and appeals to the President, the Kabmin, the Supreme Council, the Ukraine's Mineconomy, and the local authorities. At first, the Governor of Chernigiv County canceled his disgraceful order for a sharp increase in heat tariffs, and then the bourgeois-bureaucratic machine put everything in place. The tariffs remained elevated. Here's the correspondence. Shame on the authorities who abuse people! The Ukrainian Company's faction suggests that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on the conduct of pricing and tariff policies in the housing and utility sphere is not satisfactory. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will make a transition from economically sound tariffs for businesses and the population, to the cost of services to the level laid down in the subsistence minimum and to a significant improvement in the quality of these services. In the 2005 State Budget, to provide subsidies to housing and utility enterprises to compensate for the payment of residential services for families where the actual total income does not exceed the subsistence minimum, to develop a debt write-off mechanism for families where at the time of debt formation the actual total income was lower than the subsistence minimum, to provide 100 per cent of the pay-out. And in addition, it's urgent to repair all over the world's engineering networks. Where to take the money, the Communists offer it repeatedly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u111	Thank you. From the faction of the Social Democratic Party, the national deputy of the Shurma. [[united]] Get ready for Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u112	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The population debt for residential services for the 10th of April this year actually accounted for eight billion bracelets. The analysis of the debt structure shows, on the one hand, the objective failure of a large part of the population to pay for residential services at the right time, even under the conditions of the housing-communal subsidies scheme; on the other hand, the existence of a large number of unconscionable payers who, with the ability to pay, simply refuse to do so. So effective housing policy should address both the task of protecting the least vulnerable and of forcing unconscionable payers to pay. We need to understand that rising prices and tariffs in the residential sector in a situation where energy prices are constantly increasing is an objective process, and it is not possible to stop it by artificial methods, as some factions suggest. It would be more logical for the state to improve its leadership more vigorously in order at least to protect the poorer levels of the population from an ever greater or global increase in prices that will be driven by objective oil prices. In view of the reality of Ukraine’s energy balance and in view of the fact that only five months remain until the new heating season, the problem seems to be quite complex, but it is all the more necessary to avoid making any unreasonable decisions. You have to admit, honestly, there are no sufficient funds to stabilize non-energy prices in the budget. The housing-communal budget situation is in a rather critical state. The population debt reached nearly eight billion. The damage to the industry over the last year has reached one billion dollars, increasing the debt of local budgets, subsidies, housing-communal services organizations. The problem is that basic funds, i.e. housing, are already going to reach 70 percent on average throughout the country. Under these circumstances, even more money must be invested in repairs. Obviously, the issue of sector reform is becoming urgent and requires sound economic justification. At the same time, some political forces are simply offering to introduce a moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for services to the population and thus refuse to find really effective solutions. I mean, just close your eyes on all the problems mentioned above, putting a bomb on the Ukrainian economy. The introduction of a moratorium does not eliminate problems, but it introduces new contradictions in existing legislation, making the problem more difficult. A moratorium on tariff increases is essentially a pre-election populist action that does not really have an economic or social basis. The faction of the United Social Democrats believes that it is not the need for a moratorium on tariff increases, but for their differentiation, the wealthy to pay a higher tariff, but the poor to pay a lower one. The moratorium should cover all types of populations, regardless of their property status. Thus, the introduction of a moratorium will unreasonably extend the current low tariffs on those types of population that could and should be paid much more than housing services, because the price of these services has been deliberately established as socially accessible. The United Social Democrats believe that a flexible tariff system should be developed, based on an appropriate system of real social benefits for electricity, gas, heat, and more. At the same time, we need to find a balance between economic and social. It's a problem. On the one hand, the economy needs to accumulate sufficient financial resources to reproduce the energy cycle. Second, poor people should not suffer from this. Of course, making such a system a little more difficult than simply introducing a moratorium, but that is what really requires concern for a poor and stately position. It is not possible to resolve the issue of an effective housing system without the adoption of the Housing Code. The draft Housing Code contained effective judicial mechanisms for dissident payers, which allowed for a radical change in the debt situation for residential services and, accordingly, to create conditions for more socially acceptable tariff policies. It should be recalled that the blockade of the Housing Code was attended by representatives of those political forces who, in controlling the government in March 2000 in the relevant government bill, proposed to confiscate the property of citizens in payment of debts for residential and utility services only on the basis of notarial provisions, i.e. outside court procedures. We have to make an urgent call. Go back to considering the adoption of the Housing Code. Among other things, the Cabinet of Ministers needs to adopt a government programme, to review it in September, and to find new approaches and models for creating new tariff prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u113	Thank you. From the "Centre" group, there is a national MP, Kozachenko. He'll be followed by Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u114	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! In recent years, Ukrainian families have experienced a significant and particularly painful increase in municipal payments. In 1996-2004, the cost of services has increased by more than 100 percent compared to inflation, and today it accounts for more than 30 percent of the average monthly wage. That's the average country. In some cities, rising prices have simply been disastrous for the population. Sadly, my family leader was Odessa. Since early 2003, Odessa’s decision has raised water and water tariffs by 1.5 to 1.7 times, and municipal services tariffs have increased by 2.3 to 2.6 times, with the emphasis being on one moment. The creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council in this regard was somewhat frightening to supporters of the idea of reforming the JCC area at the expense of the citizens' wallet, and the introduction of new tariffs on municipal services was delayed for a year and introduced in May this year by an increase in tariffs in the same 2.6 - 2.6 times. Oedek’s local leadership, I am sure, dared to do so only after the full support of the relevant government structures on this issue was found. The mistreatment of Odessa was well called the "pilot project" of the Statekongosp Ukraine and the Odessa Mesquikonka after a test in Odessa on the calculation of differentiated tariffs for maintenance of houses and adjacent territories. In the absence of time, I will not give a detailed analysis of the material that was produced by the commission of inquiry. I hope that Parliament will find time to listen to the report of the commission of inquiry, whose work continues for the time being. I want to emphasize the following. To my firm conviction, all of the so - called reform of the LHC in Odessa are pursuing two main objectives. First. This is a complete translation of all the problems of financing the housing complex on the shoulders of citizens. So this area has to become an understanding of the reform parents and a completely profitable and completely profitable one. As a result, it is very simple to transfer the entire system into private hands. A great example of this is renting for 49 years, and that actually means privatizing Infox's Odevocanal. I will not stop at the multitude of violations that have occurred and are taking place in this matter, for this will be discussed in the report of the interim commission of inquiry. I want to make an emphasis on the next one. We hear all the time about the fact that the material and technical base of the LHC has largely collapsed, and that's true. Along with rising prices, the quality of utilities has deteriorated. The outdated municipal infrastructure can no longer function properly by ensuring a normal level of quality of services. The absence of funds for the maintenance of housing results in a reduction of the life expectancy of the housing industry by almost threefold. Today, everyone agrees with the need to rebuild municipal infrastructure. However, this brings about the end of unanimity. In the political circles, there has been a dispersal of supporters and opponents, a solution to the problem by raising prices and tariffs for utilities. Public service tariff proponents base their position on the need for large volumes and costs to restore infrastructure. Such projects are really expensive and require millions of dollars worth of investment. However, if the situation is carefully assessed, it can be concluded that tariff hikes do not allow the necessary cost to be concentrated in a short period of time. And so rising prices and tariffs should not be seen as the only source of financing for the municipal economy, especially given the poor situation with the material security of the population. And another argument that's made by the proponents of raising tariffs. Neither local nor state budget has the expense of modernizing the LHK. This raises the question of whether there is an alternative. In my opinion, there is. Let me give you an example of Odessa. The transfer of the Water Channel to the Infox rental was based on the need for investment of about 500 million people. The money is fully, I emphasize, the modernization of the core assets over the course of five years. As this investment happens, this isn't what we're talking about right now. I want to remind you of something else. During the past five years, the property of the Odessa community has been removed and actually stolen about 300 acres [300 ha] of the best land. I'll explain why it was stolen. The market value of these lands exceeds 1 billion dollars, and the city budget has reached less than 10 million. This is the resource that should have been used, including for the reform of the communal sphere. Similar processes are taking place in other regions and in the country as a whole. The conclusion is very simple: As long as it takes place in and out of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the machine shuts off the microphone six seconds after the deadline is over. From the faction of socialists, Lucenko has the word to prepare for Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, distinguished government officials. How many deputies are in the room right now and who's sitting out of the government, the corresponding government beds just show the attitude, the attitude and the fellow MPs, and the government to this extremely painful issue for our population. In fact, there are really no ones in the government bed who should answer the key questions. And yet, when you talk about housing-communal tariff formation, you can talk about over-consuming consumption. And that will be true. We could talk about the failure of the metering program. And that will be true. But the main problem from my point of view is the self-removal of government from tariff formation. Since 1996, this huge problem has been put on local self - control. And from now on, the government doesn't see it as a problem, so it's not exactly here in this government bed. And self - government in places is like self - control at times, and sometimes self - rule. Otherwise, how do you explain that the heat tariff in Kharkiv is 79 dollars per unit, in Dnipropetrovsk it is 63, and in Doneck it is 51. Excuse me, for twenty with extra copies, the bracelet of the difference in the neighborhood -- that means either total anarchy, or corruption. I don't see any other words. No wonder the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine has spent three years recalculating tariffs for services and has returned a billion dollars to people, I stress, for services that were not provided by housing and utilities. I'm asking the government, I'm asking the officials here, who's in prison for stealing a billion people? Yes, they were reimbursed by way of enumeration. But I'm asking, who was responsible? What steps have been taken to ensure that this will no longer occur? Is a billion dollars worth of money in the state, more on our pensions and wages? The question is different. The government and the committee emphasize that people don't pay. Yes, Your Honor, they don't pay, it's true. But they don't pay for two reasons, everyone they know. First. Because they know that to pay the thief's power is to be poor and stupid at the same time. The second reason is they have nothing to pay. I want to remind the government. You're talking about a multi-hundred-million debt to residential services. And I'm going to remind you that people have been robbed of 140 billion dollars in savings, and the government isn't going to give them 50 pennies a year. And there's four billion left in Orant. So when you return these funds or you offer the mechanisms for mutual debt on housing-communal tariffs, which our faction of socialists has been insisting on for the third year, the need for this kind of budgeting, then we'll talk about people who don't want to pay. But I still agree with those who speak of the catastrophic system of the housing and utilities themselves. It's also true. In all the problems with their spending, however, it has to be acknowledged that only by our wishes, words, and pricing will they not survive. So what's the solution for both population and housing? The fifth year in a row, the Socialist Party of Ukraine offers a political and economic solution to this situation. It is one thing, that we should not make a political decision. And in the formation of water and heat tariffs, to take into account the price, the Ukrainian price of gas, I stress not the cost, but the cost of the cost of gas-intensive enterprises, which is $20 per unit, rather than $60 per unit, the price of Russian gas, which is charged to heating tariffs. Explain to me why when we have enough gas to secure our farm, we suddenly place the price of Russian gas on tariffs three times as high as the price of Ukrainian gas. Then, of course, the question becomes that the population cannot pay such tariffs. Another question is why we can't set a water tariff, where 30 percent of the price of electricity is the price of Ukrainian nuclear power, which is, if I'm right now, about eight copies, and we're betting 24 copies of energy. Tell me, what's the point of raising, deliberately raising tariffs so that people don't pay, then out of the same budget pay subsidies, searching for them in a demeaning million-dollar line, and knowing what the damage is? This plan was proposed by the Socialist Party of Ukraine to the government of Yushchenk, the government of Kinakh, the government of Yanukovic -- none of them want to do so. You'll say that there are MPs -- they're introducing a bill. No, the Constitutional Court has forbidden us to interfere with tariff and price regulation. This is a government matter. And so as long as it doesn't do it and it doesn't do it, and that's true, tariffs are 30 percent for both water supply and heat supply, and it's not enough to do it, it's not enough for a government that doesn't want to do it in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u117	From the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" the word is given by the national deputy Kirichenko. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u118	Thank you. Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, modern relations in housing and utilities are not easy: the administrative system no longer works, however, the power of inertity in this area is even greater. The losses of Ukrainian housing and utilities in 2003 amounted to almost one billion grevens. As mentioned here today, the total debt of GECS, both receivables and creditors, is more than eight billion. The population is required by GECS, and utilities, in turn, are required for gas, electricity and heat. Consumers and municipal workers understand that no longer can live like this. In many cities of Ukraine, mechanisms for market relations are being developed. Several trends can be identified today: the first, administration or creation of single client services, the home administration institution and the formation of contract organizations based on GECO. The second, self-organization or involvement of residents in the management and retention of housing through the establishment of home committees, associations of homeowners and the like. The third trend is an attempt to bring together administration and self-organization. In my view, these trends are most optimal. The Government also understands the need for fundamental change. At the Ninth All-Ukrainian Municipal Hearings, housing and municipal reform, the primary objective of local regional development was to conduct an expert review of the draft State-wide programme for reform and development of housing and utilities for 2004-2010. One of the main ideas of the programme is that there is no alternative to the market for housing and utilities. This will provide an opportunity to attract investment and credit to address the problems of upgrading housing and engineering communications. What must be done to make declarations and projects a working mechanism? The reform of Ukraine's housing and utilities should include the creation of competition and conditions for attracting investors. First of all, there is a need to change the governance of this sector. In addition, investment in tariffs is required to attract investors. Secondly, implement financial and credit mechanisms with low credit rates. The following, weighted and differentiated tariff policies. The level of tariffs, virtually in all regions, does not provide cost-recovery. The tariff policy needs to be improved through the setting of ceilings. Most importantly, their level should be consistent with the quality of the services provided and should be developed in a targeted manner. Local authorities should deal with this issue in a substantive way: either to set tariffs that would reimburse the actual cost of services or to reimburse enterprises for differences in tariffs if they were declared below their cost. There is also a need to develop tariffs in different segments of housing and utilities. The paradox of tariff policy decision-making should be as transparent as possible, and the work of the authorities with the population should be systematic. Some experts see a single exit for JCX enterprises as increasing current tariffs by 3-4 times. Many utilities are concerned about the prospect of bankruptcy and are starting to raise prices on their own. It's not an option. Once again, differential tariffs are needed. Given the socially oriented policy pursued by the current Government, it is not appropriate to talk about raising tariffs. The Government has already taken a number of measures to prevent their promotion. On instructions from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine is preparing mechanisms for interaction with the executive authorities on housing and utility tariffs. The State Price Control Inspectorate initiates a restriction on the cost-effectiveness of services provided by monopolies, particularly in housing and utilities. A clear price monitoring mechanism has been established. The Gosinspectorate sets a desirable level of profitability, and accordingly, the AMC forms market tariffs and monitors their implementation. Thus, the Government has developed rather effective ways of curbing rising housing and utility prices. We must take an open and balanced approach to discussing the ways of reforming the housing and utility sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u119	Thank you. From the faction of the Block of Timoshenko he has the word School. Prepare Reznik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u120	Thank you. I would like to express the position of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on the increase in prices, which here, in principle, everyone is oblivious about it, is called differential growth, undifferentiated, but somewhere behind this frequency of words is one thing: that prices are going to go up. There was criticism of a moratorium on rising prices for utilities. That's very true: it was. The question of moratorium. Because until there is a proportional dependence on the growth of utility services on wage and subsistence minimum growth, there is nothing to talk about until then. We can either raise prices, at any rate differentiate, but when a person, a pensioner, is physically unable to pay for these services, he'll pay them to stop. And then it will be the turn of the eviction, which, by the way, is set out in the Housing Codex, which is constantly being emphasized here. Therefore, prices of utilities cannot go up faster than wages. And this is the position of the faction. I would like everyone here, primarily government representatives, national MPs and radio listeners, to know that this position will be consistent because there is a logic to the process. And beyond logic, nothing can be done. As much as we talk about overconsumption, they do not decline, but they try to impose excessive consumption standards. If you don't want to have these over-consuming standards, become counters. Counters, by the way, are also a problem that needs an approach, a normal one, and a real one. Multiple apartment buildings. Or it's easier to put the counters at the entrance of the entire house, so that we can run the water. It's a simple enough way out, but. This is the answer, but basically in this way, no one enters this door either local or local. No organs of local self-government. They talk about it, but they don't, motivated by the lack of funds, motivated by the understatement of utilities. Then a circle is formed. Next. Let's see what's in the utility complex. From this rostrum, when the question of price moratoriums was discussed, it was said that estimates were made that utilities did not perform. There's land-cleaning, antenna. By the way, each one here is a national MP, especially one of the regions, you check whether you pay for the antenna or not. Or if someone would use the services that this company provides, but the point of payment is. Radio. I imagine. The constituency. I don't have half the villages radioed, but people want to pay for the radio, because the wire's wired, so there's no radio. Well, who cares? And the next. We're talking here, we can talk about rising or falling prices for utility services for a long time. It's a gas problem, but it's a bridge problem. Let's see what's going on in the village. The village. From the absence of this gas. There's a community service to talk about when they're not really there. There's a well and wood. But as soon as it appears, as soon as it is brought to the village, there is a pipe. People become consumers of gas, they immediately create problems, because local directors of utilities don't know how to count. They make mistakes, they rule out, because they include this gas, they create serious social tension, which is, by the way, a problem that they don't. I'm not going anywhere. We have to talk about this all the time. Therefore, the government should offer both the people and the higher legislature a clear position. And this position has to be based on a simple formula. Until it's offered to increase the dependency of utilities on wages and subsistence, there's nothing to count here. You can talk about the fact that there's no investment going, they're going. The requirements, by the way, of the International Monetary Fund and all the Western Funds do not mean that we raise prices for utilities, but rather that they don't. And that's the question of government strategies, that's how they're going to get out of this dilemma, because no one's going to ask the population what it is. These services, pay for them. Don't forget that the same IMF requirements are about raising wages and living minimum, that's very few people talk about, but that's because it reduces social tension. Taking away social tension in society is the main task of the government, especially the part of it that deals with social and social pay. So I stress that it is not possible to assess the government's activity in this area in any other way, as insufficiently as it is. And this is the position of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I wanted you to understand what her sequence is. And about utilities and the housing and maintenance office. I'll tell you. The usual thing is, it's a crying state. But these are not their problems, nor do you put them on the side of the local government, and these are the problems of the government as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u121	Thank you. Some factions collect cards and vote? The word from the faction of "Deminitives, People's Landings" has the national deputy Reznik. Get ready, Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Today, one of the most important issues in our country is being addressed. This question determines the political stability of the country and the economic composition of each individual family. I would like us to move here from the level of political dividends to the practical plane and consider what is really going on. What is the analysis of the housing and utility situation? We all know that every third home in the country today needs major repairs. We all know that 38 of the country's 130,000 kilometres of water supply is in an emergency today. We all know that 80 per cent of transport is in an emergency today. We all know that in all cities, with the exception of Kiev, and in all villages, there is no way to cross or cross. Today we are discussing the issue of tariffs and we are saying whether we are raising these tariffs correctly or wrong. But the tariffs are derived from the services actually provided. Over the years, there has been no ongoing renovation of the housing fund, no concept of major, ongoing repairs, no rehabilitation of the transport park, no electricity transport, no road rehabilitation. When the example is given that Odessa has set new water supply tariffs for 67 copies and this has given an investment value of 12 million, let those who have said so answer the other question. When the fare was 67 copies, did 60 percent of the water that fled to the ground? I'm done studying. And who did they hang on to? Of course, they hung on people who receive 600 grams [600 g] of water today and pay for a litre of water. With regard to today's new tariffs in the country or the tariffs imposed today, in particular in Odessa, it has increased by 2.5 times. Is it clear whether it's good or bad? Of course, it is not possible not to consider what services have been raised for which tariffs have been raised. Are there services that people today should pay 2.5 times as much as they did yesterday? Of the 24 services offered, 18 do not exist in nature. All other services have nothing to do with the operation of the housing fund. However, in order to make this problem legitimate, people have explained that they are owners of housing and are forced to sign, force them to sign, otherwise it cannot be called, are forced to sign, so-called treaties that confirm the legitimacy of the efforts of the authorities. What really happened? In due course, the country transferred its responsibility for the operation of the housing fund from public property to utility. When it usually takes place from one property to another, the previous owner always pays compensation for what he has transferred. Did the country hand over this compensation to the communer? No, I didn't. Therefore, she transferred the housing in the emergency situation in which utilities were received today. Are there real resources in cities to put the housing fund in order? Of course they don't exist. Thus, the power did not realize that it was indeed a reform of the housing community, and had seen the only way to raise tariffs, had reduced the responsibility of the people. Today, people must do what the State has never done by handing over the housing fund and everything else, the housing and utility system. Or can a tariff solve this problem at all. Nature does not have a tariff that could solve the problem of restoring the country's housing and utilities today. No such tariffs exist at all. Therefore, the problem of discussing tariffs, it is not correct, it is right to speak of another, that today the country's budget must have the money that the State has not added, transferred to the housing fund from public property to utilities. Realistically, cities must actually move to real-estate homes when they create budgets. Because you're going to ask today, and you're going to ask the tenant for help to manage, and anyone, it could be in the city, it could be in the village. He's told, listen, you privatized the apartment and do what you want, 82 percent of the privatized housing, which is like I own. At the same time, it is not me who enters into a contract, but it is the property of the one who actually owns it, i.e. the city council. Therefore, until we know who the real owner is, until we create conditions for the formation of the real owner and on behalf of the real owner, we will communicate with the service provider, until the market is not at all mentioned, since there are two buyers and sellers in the market. We don't have a buyer in the country, and on behalf of the buyer, he's trying to speak up, which is totally inappropriate and wrong. I believe that when we budget next year, we should take all this into account, and the money should appear in the budget. However, a special commission must be established at Kabmin, which today, if not imposed a moratorium, should be stopped, which is trying to raise tariffs on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u123	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Mike, a faction of the NDP of industrialists and entrepreneurs, to prepare for Kowala.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u124	It seems to me that the issue of tariffs, self-sustainment is a matter for the rest of our lives. But how they're set up and what's done with these tariffs is the question of our session, and the Supreme Council, and the government. And I'd like to pay attention to that kind of thing. That's when someone speaks, they talk about energy conservation, they talk about scientific achievements. Where is it, and who does? I'd like to tell the head of the committee these examples. Let's see. We've got a 30-40-percent energy consumption in Ukraine today. Do you know how many years this proposal has been? And it's almost minimal. 30-40 percent, nothing foreign. I know that when foreign people need things, the question is solved immediately, because there is interest. And here it's all Ukrainian. And 30-40 percent. Please tell me, do you need to spend 100 percent of the electricity in parading houses? Today in Kiev, there is a pattern where 20 percent is spent. Try to make this offer all over Ukraine. I can bring other things. Water supply. Water stations are being repaired endlessly, and there is a great deal of energy needed to maintain the pressure in Kiev, in the Bolossian region. Question solved. 30 percent of the cost of electricity -- 10-20 times the term of service for these stations is increasing. Please tell me what it takes to get it in place. I could be an engineer today who knows what's going on in Kiev and what's going on in science that needs to be taken into account? I'll tell you, the great, terrible reason we have is one thing. One who deals with all aspects of energy conservation is the one who supplies electricity. And he's got a lot of interest in water, too. And there's no interest in that. Why? They buy more, more money, and no one. And housing and utilities accepts these tariffs, and they think that's the question. That's the question today. Please take the authority into your own hands, take the entrepreneurs, show them examples. We have calculated that only up to 20 million elevators can be stored in the city of Kiev. A year's worth of money. Up to 20 million. In a year! Him? No, the elevators will work! The elemental thing is the frequency control of the engines that are in these elevators. There's an elevator and an elevator with frequency control, and they've installed it, and they've brought everyone -- and then, you know, go and see how much a regular elevator costs, and how much it's modernized. Same elevator. The change in engine and control is set at 40 percent of the economy. Please tell me, who needs it, where to look? In the United States, somewhere else, these things, when are they all there? I could give you hundreds of such examples in Ukraine. We just don't do it, because one reason is that it's worth it. What's "equity"? What is it made of? So I think tariff issues need to be very well controlled. Second, the Committee on Housing should not simply agree with prices but should ask: What is the level of service today? I'm not talking about heat pumps, which are twice the divorce of this heat, that today temperature control in all of Ukraine's houses comes at the expense of an open cricket. Can you please tell me where in the world you can regulate a cricket? So this is a very difficult question. And the first question that was being considered today had a bearing on the second, although they have very different directions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u125	Thank you. The word from "Our Ukraine" has the national deputy Koval and we'll give the people Masenka. Don't scream! Everything follows the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u126	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I don't know how it is for you, but it's a happy day for me today: I learned today that the President of Ukraine finally commissioned the government to develop a tariff system in the state. I'm sure now we'll start to live differently. True, before that, there was an errand for Artemis when the explosions began, before that, there was a task for the grain crisis that took place a year ago. I'm not convinced that this government will be able to solve this problem, which is called "the establishment of normal municipal tariffs," which would allow our Ukrainian people to survive in any way in the situation that has occurred. The government’s day with such a routine is very appropriate today. I think the public, and we, the Ukrainian national deputies, will be interested to know what measures will be proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in order to prevent prices from rising at least on municipal tariffs if others are not able to hold back. It's not hard for us to figure out that today's situation, which has already resulted in an increase in fuel prices, will lead to a massive rise in prices for all life-saving components, including the risk of an increase in the cost of residential services. Such a trial our people cannot endure. Now, this area is regulated by the following legislative acts: natural monopolies, prices and pricing, local self-government, the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to establish the powers of executive authorities and city council executives to regulate tariffs, the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to regulate public prices and tariffs for manufacturing and technical purposes, goods for national consumption, jobs and services of monopolistic entities. There are three bills in the Supreme Council -- one government draft law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities 2004-2010, 4235 -- government, adopted on the first reading of 12.05. The second draft of the Public Services Act is 3315, a group of people's deputies, members of the Desert Tenk Committee - Desert Tenko, Reznik, Kruglov, Kostynuk, Petrenko. The third bill is a bill on the basics of Ukrainian housing policy in the area of housing maintenance and utilities, number 2460 - Remaruk, Koval, Desert Tenko, Reznik, Kozachenko. You know, respectable national deputies, the problem of municipal tariffs began with the sharp rise in tariff prices in Odessa, when they all came together: right and left and different flags, and under different flags, they went out to the square and started protesting after those price hikes, absolutely groundless that took place in Odessa. Alexi Kozachenko has already spoken in part about this problem. I'm also a member of that committee that worked at Odessa. After the commission’s work and conclusions were reached, the government commission left and said that everything was fine. So the question I have is, could the government, apart from continuing to patch up these holes that are, have some kind of targeted program that would really provide for those problems that now have housing and utilities and tariffs? There is a legislative framework in place. the sphere is insufficient and imperfect, it does not provide the legal basis for regulating the relationship between enterprises, industry organisations and consumers, and does not provide the necessary weights to regulate social protection of the population and to implement effective tariff policies. Thus, the adoption of a unified law is essential. The main problems, in my view, which regulate tariffs that are not solved, are the problems: no effective tariff management schemes, clearly not defined by legislation, terms and procedures for consideration, tariff review, no public inclusion procedures for consideration of tariffs prior to approval, no list of documents required to submit to the regulatory authority, executive, local self-government, district public administration; no indicators to monitor the implementation of approved plans, no incentives to improve the quality of services, and effective mechanisms to index individual articles are applied to the tariff, etc. There are other ways to improve the tariff management system, and they are also known for introducing cost transparency measures and ensuring the optimum level of cross-subsidisation, setting up investment components in tariffs, and implementing measures to ensure that natural monopolies work together. I hope the honourable people's deputies are doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Three minutes from the people, Masenko. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u128	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for giving me the word of the people. So I would like to say a few words in behalf of the people. We planned when we asked this question to consider that the government would report on how to get out of that co-operation that people don't have money, prices and tariffs are rising, and how to get out of this situation, so that money is still paid. And when you get to know the materials that you've given, it's just about, oh, what percentage of compensation and whatever other area, one or the other region has provided utilities and housing services. And then there's the area and the better one where the tariffs are up. So I realized by reading your material. Well, that's probably crazy. We must act in the interests of the people. How to make such a situation so that people can still pay at these tariffs and prices. And we're watching. In the 1st quarter, these are your numbers, 103.9 on utility, the quarter is 103.8. 7.7 percent has increased. And the minimum wage is zero. And the average is 128. So what's "medium"? We know what the average wage is, how many people have to use it. But if only for the residential services themselves. And there's something he needs to live for. I mean, whoever comes out here today besides the communists and cries, I'd say, "Well, that's what you've been teasing us about, and yelling that the sausage in Soviet power was 2.10." If this was 2.10 in the store right now, I'd see if they were there. And whatever you do. You try 2.10 sausages, then we'll see who was right, who was wrong, and how it'll be better. But what is even more surprising to me is that none of the speakers today are concerned with such a question. There's a lot of subvention in your information. Who that baptized father is, or Pinzenik, or someone doesn't have them today. They used to guide whatever you want here, and then they hide from everything. If at least one of them sat there and tried to get that grant, and I wouldn't be jealous of any of you if I didn't apply to you. But there's one more thing I wanted to say. There was much talk about differentiated fees and tariffs. But what differentiation is there if it acts in this way, such as the President's order of June 18, 2001, to give Victor Yashchenk a 50 percent discount on fixed tariffs for renting housing? So it's just Yushchenkov. And how many more gums are there for 50 percent. That they lack enough money to pay to the full that the poor person will be skinned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Don't shake your applause, don't take your time. Let me give one minute to everyone who signed up. It'll take about five minutes. Please, freeze after him, Phydenko from place to place for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u130	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. As he said, out of two performances, one and not human, one minute. I'm addressing a reporter with this problem. I'd like you to lead to our consumers in particular with regard to budget workers. Teachers. It's just not possible to meet people at receptions right now. Suppliers who supply energy and so forth require teachers to pay. According to the law, under the Constitution, budget workers use benefits. The benefits are cut off by the budget that we accept. And housing and utilities demand that workers be paid for their education, given to the courts. This should be passed on to, say, the education department and so on. They're specific to each person. It's a terrible vacchanal. So I ask you to explain to people, explain to your businesses that you cannot do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u131	Please, Phydenka. After him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u132	Thank you. Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. I would like to focus on such a few facts. For example, maintaining a two - room apartment in Ukraine averages 147 dollars a month and a three - room apartment of 200. The question is, Where do the major masses of people take money to pay for both utilities and quarterly payments? Wages and pensions are not enough, and there are 8 billion. It's a debt for that sort of thing. And then all the people on the books have 5, 10, 15 and even more thousands of money that the state stole and, in fact, doesn't give people their money that they could even use to pay for utilities, apartments and debt on the quarter. And the company has long offered to use this stolen money in Savings for that very purpose. And for example, for teaching children, for treatment, for sanatorium resort treatment, but at the same time, for payment of utilities. The state pays.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u133	Please, Shibko, follow him, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u134	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to go to Vladimir Illich, and he said that there's something already done there in First-Traven, and there's even an agreement. Volodymyr Illihu, there's no deal. You're given false information. And I want to pay attention to this. Chariot Coal is purchased without a tender, at high prices, without proper accounting. So only on the Southern boiler room, as I say, 11 tons of coal have been found. Heat tariffs. Scientifically unsubstantiated and taken by a mesquikonom from the ceiling. And no one calculated or verified the cost of a single hexacalorie in size. Heat is released without calculation, without any measuring device on the boilers of Pritoravenska, and so forth. Why do I say that? It's not just First-Travensk, it's everywhere in the state, as long as we act on the basis of the Law on Natural Monopolies. So it's going to be the only government policy to do that, and it's on your committee that you have to calculate this data in order to be able to use it all over the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u135	Please, Karmazin, follow him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland, Solidarity of the "Our Ukraine" bloc. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Housing Minimum Act guarantees that the cost of housing services in the housing structure should be up to 12 percent. What it looks like in the context of 60 percent going beyond fuel today. We see Adam Ivanovich's attitude, it's your fault, it's your fault, it's the head of the Supreme Council, that the Prime Minister isn't sitting here today. Well, actually, it's our duty to the law that he's not sitting, but that he's not working here today. That's the wine. And let's see, today was about Odessa, Cosachenko said exactly what happened in Odessa was being privatized, and now there's Infoxocodocanal. The population was increased from 20 liters [20 L] to 294 liters [294 L] per day. What are we doing? More specifically, what is the government doing today? I think that's what's going on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u137	Please, Orzhachowski, follow him, Seminouk. Please, Semenyuk, prepare your card.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u138	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party, the head of the joint owners of the city of Kiev Dear Adam Ivanovich, Reverend Volodymyr Illihu. I want to make you specific suggestions. First of all, 8 billion debts have been accumulated since 1995. You and I have passed a law on debt restructuring that works, but not to the fullest extent. First of all, it's not distributed to residential cooperatives or OSBBs. And we need to get rid of this problem. And this proposal made by the Socialist Party faction, and I'm particularly interested in amending the legislation, so that these very appropriate houses are also included in the restructuring. The other one. It is necessary to change the instructions on the provision of heat and water to the population, since there must be hot water at 40 degrees Fahrenheit [40 ° C]. We have an old instruction, people pay double wages and these tariffs, and no one has reviewed these rules. So please, this is in the draft regulation and in the recommendations, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u139	Orzhachowski, Yeshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u140	Anatoly Orzhachovsky, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I support the proposal that in the daytime order, the issue in the daytime order, the government should be given an unsatisfactory assessment also because today the Cabinet of Ministers is delegated authority to ensure that the Ministry of Economics' price policies are implemented. Today, quite different representatives report, although he should report to the minister of the economy. I think the main thing in Ukraine today is, first of all, what's in the private hands of energy. And this is felt by the organs of local self - government. So you might want to think about going back to nationalizing these private companies, because there will be no further water, and other problems will remain for our people. The role of reformers ’ heroes may also be to hold them accountable. And I'd like there to be expert bodies at the local level that could evaluate the price rise or.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u141	Please, Jeszczenko, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u142	The Communist faction, Cherkashina. I'm talking to voters not only Cherkas, but I'm talking to voters from all over Ukraine about the fact that, once again, there's a trolleybusters strike in Cherkas that have raised questions about violations of their rights to pay their wages, the return of money for the concessional movement of the population, and local self-government today cannot solve these problems without the government. I made a request for a deputy minister named Prime Minister Yanukovic. So far, the team has not received an answer from the government, what to do with trolleybus control not only in Chercas but throughout Ukraine. Because this problem of the utility company, it refers not only to the State Committee on Municipal Affairs, but primarily to government. So once again, I'm going to the government to solve the problem of the Trolleybuss strikers in Cherkasa.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u143	Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u144	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, honourable members of the government, you see that in principle they stand and deal with the issue of municipal tariffs and fight against the illegal rise of socialists and communists. Look around the hall: there are only two factions of socialists and communists sitting in the session room, and two other men are -- Yuri Carmazin and one Social Democrat, one of Our Ukraine, Yuri Carmazin, and two other men of the majority. This is saying that this problem is not of interest to the government or to the majority, it's of interest to the opposition, to the left opposition that thinks that municipal tariffs are illegally rising in cities right now, and a vivid example of this is the city of Chernig. Up 30 percent lawlessly, the government does not influence the process. Some other methods of influence are needed. We need to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-08-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all those who wish to speak. To sum it up, we will be taking a draft decision that the committee has proposed. I don't think there's much to talk about. Anxiously and painfully, they spoke of one of the sinister problems for our vast masses. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 15 hours, we have parliamentary hearings on the conservation and purpose of using socio-cultural objects in the process of changing the form of ownership of the dependents. I invite the people's deputies to participate actively in parliamentary hearings.
