ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:40]] There were 427 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on December 21, yesterday. 18 issues of agenda have been addressed, namely 25 bills, two draft regulations and proposals by the President of Ukraine to Ukraine's law. As a result of the review, three laws were passed, seven bills were adopted in the first reading, ten bills were rejected, one bill was drafted, one bill was transposed, three bills were withdrawn, two were passed, the President's veto was overtaken. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kiroyanz, Sergey Georgiyyyovich, from the MP group "Centr". Dear National Deputies, at nine o’clock today, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council to discuss issues related to the consideration and adoption of Ukraine’s 2005 budget. In view of the fact that the Budget Committee has only completed its work by morning, the documents have not been reproduced or printed or distributed to you. We agreed that these documents should be distributed so that MPs could study them, have their own, form an opinion on the draft budget. A meeting of the Conciliation Council will be held at 16 p.m. with the participation of the government. We will be determined as to the prospects for dealing with this issue tomorrow morning. With the same approach to the budget again, we will determine whether we work in plenary next week or not. It's at the point of view of this: the adoption of the budget by December 31st of this year. Yes, the honourable national deputies, according to the Rules on Wednesday, we have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, declarations, requests and messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. And there's a lot of them. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Igora Jeremeeva to the President of Ukraine on bringing to justice the responsibility of a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Portov for gross violations of current legislation in the case of the “Register” consulting firm, threatening to physically punish an employee of the public authority. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:04]] For-103 Request not supported. Stephen the Cloud to the Head of the Supreme Council for the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council to verify the activities of the Court of Auditors. Victor DIVORCE under the prime minister’s responsibility to include in the budget expenditure for 2005 the financing of the construction and gasification of socio-occupational objects located in the territory of 69 constituencies in the Gitomirsk region. Valentina Seminyuk to the acting prime minister regarding the inappropriate response to the request of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization for the violation of the housing rights of residents of the “Builder” of the town of Vasilkov Kyiv region. Anatolia PALACE to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to pay off the wages payable at the Lighthouse plant “Calculator”. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria SAMOPLAV are under the prime minister's responsibility to eliminate the 2002 debt from compensation for unused sanatorium travel to retirees in the Plain region. Groups of National Deputies to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, acting as the Minister of Internal Affairs for the financial abuse of subcontractors working with the State Enterprise Chernobyl AES. [[TUSK, RAYKOV, HOMATIC, AND OTHERS Total 6 deputies]] Bogdan Gubsky to the prime minister’s executive duty of fixing. the funding of programmes at the Chernobyl AES for 2004. Valentina Seminyuk to the acting prime minister regarding the inappropriate response to the request of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization for the Protection of Constitutional Rights of Residents of the Reliefni Street, 18th city of Zaporozhye. Groups of National Deputies to the Acting Prime Minister on the critical underfunding of programmes at the Chernobyl AES in December 2004. [[TERJOCHIN, OXYKA, GUROV]] Mr Vladimír LÄCHENKA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to ensure that pensioners of the Ministry of Internal Affairs receive the benefits provided for by the Ukrainian Police Act. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the executive duty of the Prime Minister to prevent the destruction of individual sociocultural objects of the village of Kalanczak in the Herson region. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the acting prime minister, Attorney General, Minister of Industrial Policy on the suspension of the Ministry of Industrial Policy’s order to establish a state-owned enterprise, the “Palada-Izumud” project development complex in connection with its inadequacy with the current legislation of Ukraine. Hennady RUDENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General’s Office, the Security Service, the State Customs Service, regarding the violation of environmental legislation when imported into Ukraine from Hungary of the Hudron Remnants, which contain undeclared waste and the cessation of its illegal disposal. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Cabinet of Ministers for the conservation of funding in 2005 from the State Budget of Ukraine for the activities of the “Universals”. BONDARCHUKA to Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klav on compliance with Ukraine's legislation on licensing for oil-gasogaso-drug activities. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko on the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On reform of the agricultural sector” and the provisions of the Ukrainian Land Code in the Kirovograd region. Mr. Alexander CERNOVOLENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco, Prosecutor General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Head of the National Council on Television and Radio, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, Head of the Donetsk District Administration on the gross violation of electoral legislation by a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine and the “Ukraine” TV company. Groups of National Deputies to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco, Prosecutor General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Kyiv City Head on the violation of electoral legislation by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine and Advertiser “Transition-Audor”. [[TERJOCHIN, BLACKWILK, ROBOT, JAVORIAN]] Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney-General about information on the transfer of food rations, the total cost of about two million dollars by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to support groups of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovic. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General on the illegal alienation of military property in the territory of the Ivano-Frankow region. LUKJANENKA’S left to the Attorney General on falsification in the election of the President of Ukraine. GEORGIA MELCHENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the review of the publication on the recalculation of 11.5 million dollars for the election campaign of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovič. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General on information concerning the illegal crossing of the State border of Ukraine by Russian Federation air carriers, the location and operation of foreign military formations during the 2004 election of the President of Ukraine. LILIA GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General for unlawful arrest of a member of the territorial electoral commission No. 165, Michael Gavrilenka. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General on the investigation of the sale of part of the Ishmael-Bulgrad waterworks in the Odessa region. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the Attorney General on the robbery and bankruptcy of the Czernigów collective special enterprise Pożtechnika. GEORGIA MANCHAULEKA to the Attorney General regarding the violation by Anatoly Drought of the current legislation of the establishment of the Head of the Kyiv District Administration and the Head of the Kyiv District Council. Roman IMMORTAL to the Attorney General on the inaction of the law enforcement agencies of Herson in investigating the attack and brutal beating of a member of the National Rescue Committee, Sergey Kovalenko. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case under article 157 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code against the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supervisory Board of the “Criminal” Sergey Ljovecken, Vice-Prime Minister Andrija Klav and his trusted person Sergey Kljeva, one of the leaders of the headquarters of Viktor Yanuković Yuri Leventz and the ex-head of the Central Election Commission, Sergija Kiwalov, in connection with the mass falsifications of the results of the elections on 21 November 2004. VITALIA SIBKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the failure to take action for previous petitions by the Ukrainian National Deputies regarding the illegal release from criminal liability of the person who committed the crime. KIRIČENKO was informed by the Attorney General about the formation of armed groups and their participation in the electoral process. To the Attorney General, Vladimir JAVORIYSKE for an objective investigation by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyrovograd district into the fact of group rape and murder on September 20, 2004, a 14 - year - old resident of the city of Zámenka. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the possible abuse of tenders by the Ministry of Health in December this year for the budget of the unaccepted 2005 budget. [[OCIA, CARMAZIN, MOCROUS, AND OTHERS Total 32 deputies]] Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, concerning the violation of Ukrainian citizens’ rights to housing and their failure to respond to them by law enforcement agencies. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Attorney General on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the Trieste District Council of the Suma District for exceeding the official powers and his deputy for direct involvement in the beating of the people and the attack on the candidate's headquarters on the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney-General for the examination of information on the violation of the procedure for the formation of the electoral fund of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. ANDRYA VEREVSKI to the Attorney General about the illegal compensation of VAT to individual subjects of entrepreneurial activity. Vitalia HOMUTINIKA to the Attorney General on the verification of information on the illegal stay in Ukraine of the religious organization “The Embassy of the Blessed Kingdom of God for All Nations” and its head, Sande Adeladge. Mr. Alexander COLONIARI to the Attorney General for the purpose of verifying the legality of the grounds for broadcasting: the distribution of television and radio programmes by means of technical means of communication in the central areas of Kiev by the headquarters of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. Mr. Nestor SHUFRICH to the Attorney-General on the verification of the procedure for granting permission to hold a rally in Majdan Independent of the support of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. Ludmila Kirichenko to the Attorney General on the grounds for the deployment of the candidate's headquarters as President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, in the Ukrainian House on Khreshtick Street, 2. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the criminalization of the Head of the State Property Fund, Mikhail Chechtov, for unlawful acts. [[ASTROV-SUMILOV, GAPOČKA, SEMENUK]] Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney-General, Head of the Security Service, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Head of the Donetsk District Public Administration, Donetsk City Head on the mass violations of Ukrainian electoral legislation in the 42nd constituency in Donetsk by a large group of individuals on the previous conspiracy. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney General, the Minister of Interior, the Head of the State Committee for Technical and Consumer Policy, the Head of the Kiev City Administration, the Kiev City Head for the systematic brutal violations of the constitutional rights of the residents of House No.44 on the street of the Red Riding House in Kiev for ownership, housing, a sufficient standard of living, adequate sanitary standards at the place of residence and a comprehensive verification of the construction of the specified residential building, a stockholder society of the closed type of “ONVO Ukraine”. Mr Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General for the Ministry of Internal Affairs protesting that the Ministry order of May 26, 2004 No.571 “On the organization of registration and removal from the registration of the place of residence and residence of persons in Ukraine” was repealed. Vladimir ZUBANOV to the Attorney General for the protection of the legitimate rights of shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association of Autodettal, Dnipropetrovska. SCHEWCHUKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 46 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. Igor JEREMEYEV to the Attorney General for bringing to justice a member of the State Commission from securities and the Portnova Stock Market for gross violations of current legislation, a threat of physical misconduct to a public official. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Ministry of Defence for the non-compliance of the Ministry of Defence with the limited liability of the “Prikarpatian Financial Company” on the land of military property for military personnel. [[JEREMY, KASIAN, FIGHT, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] Mr. Andrija ŠKILA and Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General for the violation of a criminal case against members of the constituency boards of constituencies No. 25, 35 of the district constituency No. 100, No. 9 of the constituency No. 103, No.84 of the constituency district No. 104, which issued incomplete forms of hard-copy certificates that were used to vote for the post of President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovič, on 21 November 2004. SCHEWCHUKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 47 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. Mr. Vladimir YAVORISKOVSKI and Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENK to the Attorney-General for the violation of the criminal case against the Sokolovska Rural Head of the Kirovograd Region for the transfer of unfilled forms of reinforced certificates and money to a group of young people who were used to vote for President of Ukraine Viktor Yanuković on November 21, 2004. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the Branch Electoral Commission No.81 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No.61 in the Donetsk Region. Jury KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 144 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Ms. Oleg GUMENUKA and Mr. Boris BULGARIA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 135 of District Electoral District No. 61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Vassila GAVRILUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the electoral rights of citizens by the employees of the Komsomol City Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Poltavian region. Mr. Paul MUTCHANA and Mr. Alexander HUDIM to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the electoral commission No. 135 of the territorial constituency No. 86 of the territorial constituency No. 62 and the territorial electoral commission No. 62 in the Donetsk district. John DRACH AND GEORGE MANCHULENCH to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the electoral commission No. 142 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Mr. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 142 of District Electoral District No. 157 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Igora TARASJUKA and Vladimir ČERNJAKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 154 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. John GAVRILUK and Eugene HOURNIK to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officers of the Branch Election Commission No. 82 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Alexia YVANCENKA and YURIA OROBZA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 88 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. John VASUNIK AND SERGEY TEROJOCHIN to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the Branch Election Commission No. 87 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Mr. Mikoliy Polishtuk and Mr. Taras Stetzkov to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the Branch Election Commission No. 92 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. John GAVRILUK and Eugene HOURNIK to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 83 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Jurya BOJKA and Igor GRINIVA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the electoral commission No. 77 of the territorial constituency No. 61 and the territorial electoral commission No. 61 in the Donetsk region. Mr. KOSIVA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 85 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Alexia YVANCENKA and YURIA OROBZA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No.89 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No.61 in the Donetsk Region. Valery CHICHKOWA to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case based on the misapplication and the flooring of electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 119 of District Electoral District No. 112 and Territorial Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Luhansk region. GEORGIA OMELZENKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the Branch Electoral Commission No. 97 of District Electoral District No. 112 and District Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Luhansk region. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General on the offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 105 of District Electoral District No. 112 and District Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Luhansk region. Victor TARAN to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 99 of District Electoral District No. 112 and Territorial Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Lugansk region. [[TERRITO]] Vassila TUSKA to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 152 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. VITALIA SIBKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 84 of District Electoral District No. 116 and District Electoral Commission No. 116 of the Lugansk Region. John BOCOGO to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 202 of District Electoral District No. 115 and District Electoral Commission No. 115 in the Luhansk region. Jury LUCENKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 155 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney-General on the offence of misusing and substantiating election documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 159 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 166 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Lugansk region. Igora TARASJUKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 114 of District Electoral District No. 112 and District Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Lugansk region. LUKJANENKA’S left to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 96 of District Electoral District No. 112 and District Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Lugansk region. Mr. Aleksandra BARANIVSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the district election committee No. 141 of District Electoral District No. 115 and District Electoral Commission No. 115 in the Lugansk region. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 118 of District Electoral District No. 115 and District Electoral Commission No. 115 in the Luhansk region. Lesya TANJUKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the Branch Electoral Commission No. 65 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Head of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation into the situation of poisoning a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, National Deputy of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenka on the study of the objectivity of the collection of blood samples and other tissues of the body in connection with the possible poisoning of a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine at the Austrian private clinic Rudolfinerhaus and the objectivity of their further analysis in various foreign research centres. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 70 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 144 in the Luhansk region. JURY KLEČKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the Branch Electoral Commission No. 62 of District Electoral District No. 109 and District Electoral Commission No. 109 in the Lugansk region. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI AND Ms. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney-General for the violation of the criminal case on the basis of the unlawful use and the floor of the electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 50 of District Electoral District No. 114 and the territorial electoral commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. Mr Tanjuka and Ms. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No.68 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 114 of District Electoral District No. 115 and District Electoral Commission No. 115 in the Luhansk region. Mr. Aleksandra BARANIVSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Election Commission No. 200 of District Electoral District No. 115 and District Electoral Commission No. 115 in the Lugansk region. Boris TARASJUKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 113 of District Electoral District No. 112 and Territorial Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Luhansk region. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No.167 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Lugansk region. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 161 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. Jury LUCENKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 158 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 in the Luhansk region. John BOCOGO to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the district election commission No. 63 of the territorial constituency No. 116 and the territorial electoral commission No. 116 in the Luhansk region. Vassila TUSKA to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 153 of District Electoral District No. 114 and District Electoral Commission No. 114 of the Lugansk Region. Victor TARAN to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 100 of District Electoral District No. 112 and District Electoral Commission No. 112 of the Lugansk Region. [[TERRITO]] ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General on the offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 106 of District Electoral District No. 112 and District Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Luhansk region. Valery CHICHKOWA to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case based on the misapplication and the flooring of electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No.120 of District Electoral District No. 112 and Territorial Electoral Commission No. 112 in the Luhansk region. Mr. KOSIVA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 84 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Jurya BOJKA and Igor GRINIVA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the Branch Election Commission No. 78 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. John VASUNIK AND SERGEY TEROJOCHIN to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 86 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Mr. Mikoli Polishtuk and Mr. Taras STESKIV to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the Branch Election Commission No. 91 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 136 of District Electoral District No. 61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 of the Donetsk Region. [[GUMENUK, SPAIN, CAMERINCHUK]] Jurya KOSTENKA and Mikola KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 141 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 79 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 85 of District Electoral District No.62 and Territorial Electoral Commission No. 62 of the Donetsk Region. [[(Signed) Paul Silent, HUDIMA, CATERINCHUK]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 91 of District Electoral District No.62 and District Electoral Commission No. 62 of the Donetsk Region. [[HUDIMA, Pavel MUTCHAN, CATERINCHUK]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by officials of the District Electoral Commission No. 143 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. [[DRACH, MANCHULENCO, CAMERINCHUK]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case on the basis of the unlawful use and the floor of the electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 141 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. [[MANCHULENKO, DRACH, CAMERINCHUK]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case on the basis of the unlawful use and the floor of the electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 151 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. [[MANCHULENKO, DRACH, CAMERINCHUK]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case on the basis of the unlawful use and the floor of the electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 5 of District Electoral District No. 62 and the territorial electoral commission No. 62 in the Donetsk Region. [[SLEEP, CATERINCHUK, GUMENUK]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case on the basis of the misapplication and the floor of the electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 156 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. [[BLACK, Igor TARASJUK, CATERINCHUK]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of a criminal case on the basis of the unlawful use and the floor of the electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 155 of District Electoral District No.61 and District Electoral Commission No. 61 in the Donetsk Region. [[Igor TARASJUK, KERNJAK, CATERINCHUK]] JURY KLEČKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of misusing and substantiating electoral documents by the officers of the District Electoral Commission No. 113 of District Electoral District No. 115 and District Electoral Commission No. 115 of the Lugansk Region. VALLERY OF THE LABOUR AND THE YOURY OF THE ORBACCO to the Attorney General for an unsatisfactory response to a parliamentary inquiry into the fact that members of the law enforcement agencies of the Kharkiv region were involved in numerous violations of the current legislation of Ukraine. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice for failure to execute the Stahanov City Court’s decision to pay money for moral and material damage. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the nonpayment of benefits to medical personnel in the Kirovograd district tuberculosis dispenser. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Defence regarding the provision of information related to the availability of military assets on the central street of Khreshtick and Majdan, the city of Kiev. Alexander MOROZA to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kerchensk City Head, for the restoration of heating supplies in House No. 13 on the street of Blucher in Kerch. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service for the violation of existing legislation, which was contained in the statements made by National Deputy Gregory Omelchenka on 19 December 2004 on the air of the Radio Company “Era”. [[CONNECTION, BACHTEIVA, COLONIANS, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Head of the Security Service for the involvement of the Russian Federation in the internal affairs of Ukraine in connection with information on the possible use of Russian specialization in the form of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine Viktor Yanuković for the conduct of peaceful demonstrators in Kiev after the re-vote on December 26, 2004. Valery HOMUTINIKA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for information on the expansion of the tent town in the center of Kiev. Ms. Alexander COLONIARI to the Head of the National Television and Radio Board for the provision of information related to broadcasting — the distribution of television and radio programmes by means of technical means of communication in the central areas of Kiev by the headquarters of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. MIKOLI COMARA to the Head of the Security Service for the verification of information related to the availability of military assets on the central street of Khreshtick and Majdan, the city of Kiev. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the General Audit Authority on the possible abuse of tenders by the Ministry of Health in December this year for the budget of the unaccepted 2005 budget. [[OXYCA, POTUS, NON-REPORTAL]] Stepan HMARI to the Head of the Security Service for the Criminal Responsibility of the Director-General of the Gasoturbobuilding Science and Production Complex for the participation of the Star Mashproject in anti-constitutional activities – the attack on the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Kiev City Head, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, on the cessation of systematic violations of the rights of the inhabitants of Kiev and the Zuljana Microregion to obtain land free of charge from state and municipal property for the construction, maintenance of residential buildings, farm facilities, and the management of private agriculture. MICHELLE TO THE GLUCHOVI MEN’S HEAD Regarding the acquisition into the balance of the city council on the street of Pushkin, 94 Sumsk district. Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI and Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for the withdrawal of the territorial constituency No. 100 of the city of Kirovgrad of the Secretary of the Commission, Mr. Oleg Tkachenka, and a member of the Larissa Andrew's commission, who signed a well-written summary report of the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the procurator of the Vinnitsk district for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Igora STAŠA to the procurator of the Kyiv region for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Victor YUSCHENKA to the procurator of the Odessa region for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Petra YUSCHENKA to the prosecutor of Kiev for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Igora STAŠA to the prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankov region for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Victor YUSCHENKA to the prosecutor of the Mikolai district for the examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Petra YUSCHENKA to the procurator of the Poltava district for the conduct of an examination of the order of the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Stepan BULBY to the Attorney General for violating the rights of a citizen of the Immercial and for drawing the guilty to justice. Mr. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the attack on members of the District Election Commissions of the city of Stahanov Luhansk district. A total of 140 parliamentary inquiries were made. Of these, the faction "Our Ukraine" is 68, the faction "Communist" is 9, "Ukraine" is 10, the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is 3, "The One Ukraine" is 4, "The Hard Ukraine" is 1, "The People's Agrarian" is 4, "The Social Party is 20, "Timoshenko" is 15, "The Union" is 1, "The Industrialists and Entrepreneurs" is 2, "The Centre" is 2, "The Centre" is 2. That's 140. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the MP's ethics to give an explanation. We have 45 minutes of parliamentary requests, statements, and reports. We're running out of time. There's no way to speak from factions. So maybe we should go the other way so that we don't do the job, first talk from the factions, the time that's left, to make the inquiries. Because the questions we had today were transformed into simple MPs. And we have to listen to them on the Supreme Council. I ask you to prepare an appropriate explanation for the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions. Grigory Dashutin, "Trouble Ukraine" from "Trouble Ukraine," please. Get ready for Michael Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For several months now, pre-election passions have been venting under the dome of parliament. The bitter political struggle has brought the urgent problems of our electorate out of this room. I would like to draw the attention of Parliament and the relevant government structures to one of the problems. It's about environmental danger and the situation that took place in the oil mining region of the Suma region. I will remind you that more than 52 percent of the oil produced in Ukraine is produced in the Ohtyr region. And the technological strain that is in this region today is disturbing the entire faction and the entire region. The main danger for the population is the pollution of the environment by natural radionuclei on the 226th and 232nd. These elements are contained in petroleum products and are also contained in the oil - producing environment. And I'm going to say that in my election campaign as a deputy, I said that we were going to do research in this region, and the Ministry of Ecology was asked what the commission that did the investigation came for. But for today, the commission has not concluded as such, and in the same areas today, in some villages, children are suffering from thyroid disease -- about 40 to 45 percent of children. These are villages such as Grun, Chupakhovka, Chernečina, Lutište. So today this problem has been and remains a problem. But we ask the Hard Ukraine faction to create a commission within the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Ecology, and to provide a valid analysis of these processes. Why, today, 40 percent of children have thyroid disease, and why on one side of the Ministry of Ecology today proves that this region is a normal environment, while 40 to 45 percent of children suffer from this disease. That's why the faction of "Trug Ukraine" is concerned about this state of children's disease in this region and would like to create a commission, I repeat, within the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Prepare Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u4	Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-U.S. Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. Dear colleagues, the faction has authorized me to introduce you to the next New Day's gift that you and the drivers of all Ukraine of the Department of GAI have prepared. On 30 November, by Decree No. 16-15, the Cabinet of Ministers entrusted the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Minfin with the submission of the Department of GAI to begin the production of a new type of certificates, which were introduced as of 1 January 2005. This document approves these samples, and the main innovation of this document is that these driving licences will have a limited duration, i.e. at the end of a certain period, drivers will be required to transfer them to new rights. 14 categories are introduced instead of five existing categories, and this will make the drivers additionally open new categories. The economic innovation that is trying to introduce the GAI department is worth about 5 billion bracelets for our population. It is understandable that it is anti-constitutional in nature, because all additional charges from the population are the prerogative of the Supreme Council. And I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council today to at least warn the Cabinet of Ministers about the unconstitutional nature of this document today, and thus to at least suspend it. Next. What the Communist faction proposes is to immediately put to the vote Bill 4552: The Codex on Road Traffic. He's been on the Desert Girl Committee for a year. And we need to make a protocol decision immediately so that it can be considered, and by first January we need to take it at least on first reading. It is a document that fully regulates activities, including those of the DAI department. Finally, we have to put up a screen against the extra take-out of the crazy money: those license plates, those new road rules, that's something else. It's all coming out of the people. And you can see clearly which machines the GAI is driving today, how they are equipped and so on. Today there are more cars than there are in the GAI, no one anywhere, including even ours, as we call it, oligarchs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u5	The word is Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. He'll be followed by a mosquito.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u6	Dear national MPs, dear compatriots! Four days separate us from the change of power. Four days remain until the authorities finally begin to care for the problems of the country, each of its citizens, and not to serve the interests of the oligarchs. And nothing can stop this inevitable process. But part of the force involved in falsifying the 21st of November elections to try to deprive citizens of their right to vote for the president will not calm down. That is why attempts to divide Ukraine continue, and pogroms and other provocations take place in various parts of Ukraine. Traditional speculations around language, churches, and Russia have recently included speculations about pensions and other social benefits. Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine" wants to emphasise that every pensioner will receive a pension from the new year. Moreover, we insist that these benefits be included in pensions in order to take away the risk of temporaryity that lies behind the word "compensation." The faction hopes that we, the people's deputies, will have the wisdom to make budgetary decisions that will not only allow us to start a new year's budget funding, to guarantee pensions and other social benefits, but also to begin the restoration of the essentially cancelled differentiation of pensions in terms of employment and employment. We have no economic grounds and no moral right to support the position of the government's budget project to raise wages in the budget area by 10.5 percent, which essentially means lowering real wages in the budget area. In the next year's budget, we have to raise wages by 35 percent. By doing so, we will not only take a good step in improving the lives of the budgeters but will also put the necessary resource base under pension insurance. Dear friends! Since November 21, we have been living in a new Ukraine, and it will never again be a country that it was a few months ago -- a country that could be drawn by snakes. On December 26, this will come to a logical conclusion. We believe in the wisdom of our people, in that they vote for prosperity, for the unity of Ukraine, for its future, for Victor Yushchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u7	The word is Mikola Komar, faction of "Ukraine". Get ready, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! The “Regions of Ukraine” faction expresses its concern about the increased vote before the re-election of the President of Ukraine, the pressure of citizens' anxious expectations on the part of the political forces that have attributed themselves to the name “right opposition”. In our view, public statements from the camp of a candidate to the Presidents are deliberately aimed at maintaining public fears about the further development of conflict in the current political struggle. I draw particular attention to the fact that such provocative statements are regularly addressed by a member of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko Grigori Omelchenko, a well-known “justice” fighter, none of whom attempted to expose had been legally terminated. In particular, in the last Sunday on the air of the TRC "Era", the MP sounded another batch of frank skis on the alleged attempt to break the vote on 26 December due to massive riots. It seems that the fantastic scenarios published by the said parliamentarian are based on the prescriptions of Hebelev propaganda. The more honest a lie is, the more likely it is for citizens to buy it for this obvious fake. In our view, the provocative statement by Omelchenko suggests either the environs of the presidential candidate, supported by the Timoshenko faction, are preparing the Omelchenko-declared civil conflict scenarios in Ukraine, or the Rook MP is using misinformation to intimidate the population. Taking into account the potential importance of the information made public by Grigory Omelchenko for the security of citizens and the State, the faction “Regions of Ukraine” requests the Ukrainian Security Service to study fully the data provided by Deputy Omelchenko on television and to take immediate measures to restore the rule of law and tranquility in the country if the said statement is confirmed by the MP. If the Omelchenko statement is unfounded, we have no doubt that the “Region of Ukraine” faction requires criminal proceedings for an attempt to violate civil calm in a very difficult period for Ukraine, as well as an insult to a number of Ukrainian citizens, including government officials. If our opponents profess respect for the principles of democracy, they should bear in mind that respect for the rights of the individual, the legal responsibility for unjustified public insults, is one of the fundamental principles of civil society. Please consider this statement as an official parliamentary request from the “Regions of Ukraine” to the Ukrainian Security Service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u9	Victor Bunny, the NDP faction, a party of industrialists and entrepreneurs in Ukraine. He'll be followed by Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Sebastopols, Ukrainian citizens. Today, the visit to this rostrum is marked by numerous appeals not only by the Sevastoles, labour groups, but by many Ukrainian citizens, who today are concerned not only about the fate of Ukraine, but also about the place and fate of the town of Sevastopol in the State of Ukraine. All these years, and from 92 to 96, the Sevastopols have done everything they can to live in Ukraine and today, by making a choice with respect to one programme or another, we now expect that Ukraine and the highest legislative authorities and those policies will adequately regard the fate of the region, the fate of thousands of Sevastopol citizens of Ukraine. We are outraged by the anti-Russia hysteria that today is aimed at destabilizing, first and foremost, the situation in the town of the hero Sevastopol, and we are protesting the allegations of the role and place of the Black Sea fleet today as a arms dealer and arms dealer for our elected companies. We object to the fact that there is not today any Russian matro willing to participate in gang-forming in the territory of Independence or other areas of the city of Kiev. We are opposed to those statements that have already been made before the blackout to the conclusions that Russia has been involved in the poisoning of one of the candidates. Comrades, politicians, I am addressing Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, the environment that is: Stop! This is not a step to destabilize today in our society. Today, we see that we are strengthening rather than destroying the Law that was ratified in those walls in the year 97. And I would like to address today the President of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvina, State Building Committee, for as many as 12 years, and to block the Law on the City of Sevastopol. I want to stop those politicians who are already fighting economically against the choice of sevatopolitans in the next year's budget. I ask, in addressing these issues, we should be able to give the Sebastopols the right to adopt the Sevastopol City Act at least on first reading. And the second. To vote carefully in favour of the budget in which the economic downturn begins.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u11	Stanislaw Nikolayenko, a faction of socialists, will be followed by the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u12	Respectable national MPs, respected citizens. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, now really appreciating the situation in Ukraine, sees such phenomena as the result of the popular decisions of the government of Yanuković in contravention of the legislation, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the Budget Laws, when the funds were charged to the elections from the budget articles without considering what could be done. All the finances are highly imbalanced today. And most of all, we can't approach the 2005 budget in any way today. The budget deficit is extremely high, calls the government 11 billion dollars. And given the tax return on the added value already paid in advance, as well as privatization, if rejected, because it's not income, this deficit is increasing more than 25 to 30 billion. Today, it is very difficult for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to find a way out of a crisis. I'm not saying what the future president is going to do, this first quarter, the first half and so on to get out of the crisis. When even today, when some people pay, I mean medium and small businesses, the oligarchiks don't pay money again today. In this situation, the Socialist Party of Ukraine is asking the voters of Ukraine to support the candidate for the opposition of Victor Yushchenk in the elections on December 26th, to enable them to implement the electoral programme and to do everything they can to stabilize the situation in Ukraine. At the same time, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine last time addressed the people of Ukraine, applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preservation of social standards for the coming year. Today, we stand firm, socialists, against lobbying articles by individual oligarchic groups in the Budget Act. And that's why we insist that the budget vote be an article. To ensure that the points of interest of the oligarchs are not missed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For us the main thing today is that the 284 bracelet pension was paid, but over the course of the year it was differentiated depending on the length of time and the age of the person. We insist that the subsistence minimum be at least 432 dollars. We are determined to increase the cost of education, culture, and health care. Today, we are not equipped with what the teacher will receive after the 310, but a higher category of 396 bracelets, an even smaller doctor. We are opposed to reducing the cost of textbooks, textbooks, and so forth. And here's another thing I wanted to mention today, Adam Ivanovich. Here's a speech I received from Poltava County, Frost, who seems to be offering no vote for any of the presidential candidates. It's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u13	Alexander Turchinov, a faction of Julius Timoshenko’s block. Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u14	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, are now celebrating a professional energy festival. Taking advantage of the possibility, I would like to welcome with a celebration all of us, thanks to which Ukraine has both heat and light. Also today is a festival of professional Ukrainian diplomats. I would also like to welcome those of our patriots who defend Ukraine's interests abroad, regardless of the apparent paralysis of Ukrainian executive power. Dear colleagues, yesterday we were with you witnesses as in the Donetsk region criminal groups attacked a peaceful Automotive "Friends" that came to the region to tell people the truth that's hidden by the rulers of this region from them. The people were attacked by criminals. The windows in the cars were beaten with baseball bats, hedgehogs were thrown under the wheels, and a real threat to the lives of peaceful people was created. We believe that the responsibility for these crimes lies with Yanukovich and his team, who are inciting the people of the eastern regions who are directing them to criminal activity. The testimony of this, by the way, was yesterday's hysterical performance by a woman from the faction of "Regions," who was simply telling lies without any explanation, and this lie was broadcast on a live broadcast. I address the people of Donetsk, Luhansk, and other Eastern areas: dear friends, we love and respect you, but the rulers of your regions hide the truth in the media. You're being manipulated, you're being set up as leaders of opposition who are sincerely fighting for your right not to be slaves. By the way, speculation continues around electoral legislation. The factions that voted 100 percent in favour of this law today talk about the complexity of voting for disabled people and pensioners, although better conditions were created for these people than in the first and second rounds. First of all, you won't be manipulated. Your voices, dear friends, will not steal. And secondly, those in need will be provided by transport to bring them to the districts so that they can vote. Dear colleagues, I am addressing both the faction of "Regions" and the faction of the SDPU, the other remains of the team of Viktor Yanukovich: I ask you to stop this hysteria, stop this lie! Have courage to lose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u15	The word is Bogdan Hubsky, the faction of "the only Ukraine." He'll be followed by Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, on December 26, there will be a second round of presidential elections. Today, of course, this is the main political event of the year. And to ensure the free will of Ukrainian citizens is a shared task for all of us, regardless of political sympathy or belonging to one or the other political forces. The "One Ukraine" party, as we have already stated, has established a public electoral control centre called "December 26th online". This Center is in real-time mode, and it aims at gathering and disseminating complete information about the electoral process in order to prevent, first of all, the collapse of the election, and second of all to prevent the vote from being falsified. As a result, we invite people of all political powers to cooperate. At the same time, we would like to point out that the choices of life do not end, and the country needs to live, work, and we need to create national wealth with you. And that is why the adoption, consideration and adoption of the State Budget is very important today. Therefore, we urge all to unite in constructive work regarding the adoption of the budget. The "One Ukraine" faction claims the following priorities that we see in the adoption of the State Budget. First of all, it's social orientation. The budget should ensure that people's social standards are raised in 2005. A minimum wage and a minimum pension should provide life’s necessities at a level that is not lower than the standard of living, which today is 362 bracelets. This is in the first phase of reform. In the second half of the year, we need to get to, as we said, double the standard of living, and that's real. In our view, special attention should be given to health, education, and culture. These areas are priority areas, and they will ensure the moral and physical health of the nation. Well, tell me, can a village doctor for 200 or 300 bucks serve three villages? It's not real. Next, the reality and balance of the budget. It has to match the level of development of the Ukrainian economy, because economic growth indicators need to be implemented to increase the income of Ukrainian citizens through simple lifestyles: raise wages, provide children with quality education, improve health care. And we often talk about some indicators, and the state leaves people on their own. Yes, gas has been shut down in the city of Zlatanosza for the second week. People get sick. And tell me that the inhabitants of the city of Złotonos before they claim that the gas is secured and the price is stable. That's absurd. That is why we call for the immediate adoption of a real, constructive budget that would enable social improvement in people's lives. Because the goal we have in common with you is the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. And that is why we offer to unite all of us in order to work for the prosperous only Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u17	The word is Igor Shurma, a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u18	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine considers it necessary to make public its view of the situation surrounding the document, the content and quality of which depend on the lives of each of us next year: around the 2005 State Budget. [[united]] This situation, in our view, is complex and painful at the same time. Dear compatriots, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that today the State Budget project is much worse than the one proposed by the government in September. [[united]] Worse, first of all, with its social fulfillment. In fact, we have a document that, if approved, will dramatically reduce the social development costs of the village in the following year, which will significantly complicate rural access to social services: education, medical, municipal services. Funding will be cut to strengthen the material and technical base of health facilities, primarily those located in rural areas: the National School Bus Programme, the computerization of rural schools, the gasification of rural settlements almost four times, the social and cultural development of the village and the social protection of the rural population, by almost 180 million. There will be a substantial reduction in funding for the State Health Protection Programmes, the Education of the People of Ukraine, the Spiritual Development Programme in Ukraine. Once again, there will be a significant decline in funding under the National Social Protection and Social Security Programme in Ukraine, under the priority of granting early-term government loans to young families and single young citizens to build and acquire housing and partially offset the interest rate of commercial banks to young families and single young citizens for building, housing and social programs for children, young people, women and the family. And this unhappiness list can continue. That's the price. The price of the Ukrainian people for political instability that has been provoked in Ukraine lately. That is the conclusion we come to by comparing the figures of the September budget project with today’s. The faction emphasizes that the state had a real opportunity to adopt a really social budget, a budget for people, but unfortunately this opportunity is lost today. We have no doubt that the budget figures proposed by the government in September would have been successfully implemented. Our confidence is based on the real actions of the coalition government for two years, on its real achievements, among which the real rise in the level of Ukrainian citizens is a constant one. However, we have what we have. The pervasive political system has done its job. The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine insists on eliminating the calculation of the funding of the above programs, otherwise this is a choice without a choice. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u19	Yes, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Kalinczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u20	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Kalinczuk, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Odeschina As you know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been defined by 2015 as a period of State support for the development of the agricultural sector and the social sphere of the village. Taking into account the demands of legislation and the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2005 for the Development of the APC and the Social Area of Rural Development would provide for funding -- I emphasize that it would cost 9.2 billion dollars, including for the development of agriculture and agrarian education financed by the Minegropolitics. But the Cabinet of Ministers' proposals of 13/12 this year provide a 1.5 - billion - dollar reduction for the Minagropolitics. And if you look at what was being considered at the budget committee meeting, there's an overall decrease in the state support for the agrarian sector for the next year by 500 million less than it actually was this year. I'd like to pay attention to the financing of capital investments. Article 57 defines state budget subsidies for local investment projects and disaster prevention and prevention measures for 450 million dollars, including only 30 per cent for the restoration of appropriate rural development programmes. This is two times less than the budget of the first-reading State Budget project. At the same time, on page 185, the section entitled “Restricting the Need for Certain Articles of the draft State Budget Act states that 900 million dollars are allocated for investment projects of technological catastrophes. So where is the truth? Special attention should be paid to the development of social security in the village. Because of the unattractiveness, and our faction has repeatedly talked about it, but the absence, as essential conditions of life, the village is ageing, depopulated, degraded and dying. Despite the previously agreed scope of the government program, the 2005 Cabinet of Ministers offered separate articles on the development of the village’s social sphere, and some were completely eliminated. Unaccounted for proposals for step - by - step compensation for the management of their own funds in 1999 - 2003 for the construction of the village’s social facilities and maintenance costs. Our faction believes that when we consider the draft budget for 2005, all of these points need to be taken into account and corrected, otherwise it is impossible to vote in favour of such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u21	The factions are finished. Please, it's Melniczuk Michael's microphone. "minutes, dissatisfaction with the answer to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u22	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am forced to address Mr. Piscoon Svetoslav Mihajlovich from this high rostrum of Parliament to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. The point is that, since September, I have three times appealed to the Attorney General's Office for actions, or for the inaction of the Montenegrin prosecutor Galkin, who, contrary to the conclusion of the Attorney General's Office, has twice violated a criminal case against entrepreneurs of the city's Calinian market complex in Chernów. Three times I received an answer and three answers were quite different on the same subject that I was addressing. In my opinion, representatives of the Attorney General’s Office, who closed the criminal case at the time by their decision and by their decree, gave a completely different answer when I turned to the second and third times. So the point is that the case against the Kalinian entrepreneurs has been ordered and carried out by the District Attorney, perhaps the former Galkin, who should be responsible. I'm addressing Svetoslav Mikhajlovich today, and I know you very well, so please give me the commission to check who is to blame for the fact that entrepreneurs are still walking, they're being checked dozens of times at a time when the Attorney General's Office closed the case by way of order, which was violated illegally against entrepreneurs. I'm willing to cooperate with those who go to the scene and deal with the district attorneys. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u23	Yes. The name Omelchenka was called, please, a minute, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u24	Gregory Omelchenko, honourable colleagues, distinguished fellow countrymen, I am prepared to endure any comments to my address and any threats in the name of only one, so that the December 26 elections in Ukraine will take place peacefully and in normal conditions. So that there will be no military provocations, there will be no riots in the polling stations, so that no drops of blood will be shed. Dear friends, I say this because, and the information that I have made available for testing, so that I do not allow it. In 1989, in 1989, my classmates and I saw what was happening in Sumgait, and when we used to plant children, mothers, and elderly people in a living hallway in military planes. [[I'm not afraid.]] And that's why I didn't say it, but Janukovic, who's creating self-defence forces, and 30,000 will come to Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the announcements of MPs, the reports, the statements, we're done. Let's move on to the daily routine. There is a draft State Aid Act, registration number 5469. Reported to the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Sergey Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. For your consideration, a draft Law on State Aid, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is presented. The project is designed to improve the efficiency of resource use under the control of the authorities used to support the activities of operators. The bill is aimed at harmonising the industrial policy of the state with competitive, enforcement. particularly the partnership and cooperation agreement in Ukraine with the EU. Similar laws have been passed and are in force in all countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The draft law provides for the introduction of mechanisms that contribute to the sustainable development of commodity markets. The establishment of civilized approaches in the decision-making of the authorities on economic development increases transparency in the use of State resources and protects domestic producers from their foreign competitors. The bill introduces, first of all, the establishment of principles on which State aid is to be provided and used. Secondly, setting the criteria for allowable and anticompetitive state aid. Thirdly, the definition of the requirements for the integrity of the recipients of state aid. Fourthly, strengthening the mechanisms for monitoring and using state aid in order to prevent unfair restrictions on competition, as well as establishing responsibility for such restrictions. Fifthly, ensuring a proper level of publicity and public control over the provision and use of state aid. And the last is accounting and reporting to the Supreme Council on the state and extent of State aid in Ukraine. The draft law will not be distributed for social assistance provided directly to individuals, nor will it apply to aid that is provided and accessible without any hindrance to all operators operating in a particular product market or in a particular sector. Moreover, the law will not be extended to state aid provided in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. The Committee of Profiles, as well as the Committee on Budgets, positively assessed the bill and considered it relevant. Allow me to express my gratitude to the national deputies who took part in the project in preparation for the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council. Please support the draft Law on State Aid and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u27	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Please show me. Three minutes, Matvienkov. After him, Matthew Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u28	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Sergey Alexandrovich, the theory of the law is understandable. I just don't understand who's going to follow all these processes. And who will determine on what criteria, on what factors? We've already had dozens of cases of day-to-day firms disappearing today. Today, we have such a burden on credits as we guarantee to the State that we will not untie, I think, for the years 15-20. And we're not going to get those credits back today, and we're all perfectly aware of that. Is this not the second series of these loans under State guarantees when the State was speaking in terms of the guarantee that we are just about to waste money and everything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u29	I was going to say. That this bill of the Law does not provide for conditions why State aid should be provided. This is the prerogative of those bodies that will provide State aid. It's either the ministries entrusted by the Supreme Council through the budget to provide assistance, or the local authorities -- they decide. This law does not give any additional authority. This law is designed to ensure that the State aid that is to be provided is subject to some expertise on the compatibility of competition legislation - whether this will not affect competition. That's the first one. And the second is what you say we're going to have a state aid register. And let's say a year goes by, and the Antimonopoly Committee will report to the Supreme Council on how state aid has been provided both at the local level and at the national level. I think there is such a progressive meaning to this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u30	Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Novak Vladimir Nikolaevich, Ukrainian Compartia faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u32	Dear Sergey Alexanderovich, of course. Not exactly, of course, but it is clear from your answer to the previous question who will provide and who will answer the questions about this state aid. However, the Law states: State aid is provided to an entity or group of economic operators to compensate them for the corresponding expenses that would give the economic advantage that it would not have achieved without receiving such support. On what criteria will these objects be determined? The Law, unfortunately, does not. With what criterion, how will the relevant organs fit? You understand very well how power works today. For friends, it's everything, and for everyone else, it's the Law. This is how the formula of power is treated today in terms of language. That's what the criteria are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u33	I want to stress once again that the issue of State aid is being put into socio-economic development programmes, in certain areas of development programmes, and when these programs are being considered locally, at the level of the field, or at the level of the Supreme Council, then the question is whether this State aid should be provided. But government aid can be given in a variety of ways. That is, it can be laid on competitive grounds when it is available to most operators, or on anticompetitive grounds. So I'm saying once again that this law, it's not involved in the powers of the authorities that make decisions about the granting of state aid, it's just a filter so that it's not given to anyone without reason, it's given to someone on competitive grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u34	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment, Philip Philipovich Budzigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! Bill 5469, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on State Aid, was the subject of a review by the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investments on December 1, this year. The committee members decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis, that is, in the first reading, from the following. The first, long ago, is the time for legal, economic, and organizational principles to be determined, and I emphasize, the provision, use, and control of state aid to Ukrainian landowners. And here, we believe, we deserve to see the position of the second bill on the obligation of principles, first, transparency and publicity, and second principle of equality of public policy subjects in the area of the provision and use of state aid. And believe me, the national MPs, if only these two principles work, and they really work, if, I emphasize, the approach to state aid given to Ukraine changes dramatically, I think, will stop the abuse and corruption. The other one. The introduction of mechanisms for the provision and use of state aid in Ukraine will allow for the promotion of economic development of less developed sectors, individual operators, and, if you speak directly, in a state rather than in a clan, to address the problem of equalizing the economic development of different regions of our only country. Third. The committee agreed with the right points, and there are many of them, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular with regard to the clarification of the title of the bill, on the harmonization of it with the Master Code and the Budget Code, other laws. And what experts say about the substance of his work is that the Economic Policy Committee is ready for today's adoption as a basis, in the second reading, when preparing for the second reading, to take into account the above-mentioned proposals and also the proposals made by the national MPs that will be made today and submitted for consideration for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u36	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. A miner. After him, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u37	Dear Philip Philipovich, do you not consider it possible in this bill to provide for the demonization of the right to State aid of senior officials of our state? And that's very often the case, I hope that it won't be the case that the President comes to what region and, as a matter of fact, makes a royal gift to a particular enterprise or region, assigning all dividends to himself, while it's just budget money. This is the same, especially this year, seen in the Prime Minister's actions, which turned both the Cabinet of Ministers' Reserve Fund and other budget funds into its electoral fund. Does this bill in any way demonoize this area of activity of senior officials?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the problem raised by the national MP and the problem is serious enough. You notice when someone comes to the area from any of the officials, they give cars, ambulances, hospitals and so on and so forth. And I think that the possibility of regulating this issue in this bill is that an article can be put into an article. I think if we accept it in the first reading, we can prepare a specific proposal for the second reading that would not allow government officials at any level -- whether it's the governor, or whether it's the head of the district council -- to distribute from the government pocket and make a donation to our people. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u39	Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u40	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Philipp Philippovich, I have a question. It's about budget money. All budget money is approved annually by an authority and has already been allocated for the year where these funds go. [[The Supreme Council, a body of community self-government]] I have a question. Is this some kind of help fund? What kind of help is this? There can be no “help” budget, because budget funds are targeted funds from the beginning, from the beginning of the year. And that's what this law is about? What money? Where can I get this money for help?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u41	The answer to this question is article 3, “The Scope of Application” of this law. In order not to completely read this article, it consists of five points, and we will look at it in an individual order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u42	Please, Billorus Oleg. Oleg Grigorovich, I see you're not sitting in your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u43	Dear reporter! This law, which is passed to the Antimonopoly Committee neither from there nor from there, suddenly conveys to me the right of the Supreme Council to provide budgetary, financial and assistance, reminds me of something evil. In America every dollar of financial support for stimulating competitiveness gives Congress and asks for every dollar. That we have freedom to give to the Antimonopoly Committee, and he'll pass it on to the people we talked about. Our faction sees neither the grounds nor the normal legal order for providing such assistance to the Antimonopoly Committee. No forms, no methods of controlling the use of this help. The name of the Law is weird. It's about state aid. What a dop.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u44	I understand your question. Article 18, article 19, article 20 of the bill, article 21, answers your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u45	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Then let's take 15 minutes. We have a motion for an inadmissibility order. Let's start with him, I guess. Please, Pinzenik. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u46	Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Judging from the questions raised by the deputies, they felt that there were doubles in the law. And I think they felt it right, because in fact, the law had to be called different: "On legal corruption." Because this law, I'm going to call you just three standards of this law, which allows me to tell you about the shame that such documents even appear in Parliament. I'll call you three forms of state support, extremely corrupt, the first form of state support for this Law -- market distribution, I don't think that's something to comment on. A certain cooperative is set aside by a metre of borders, and this is seen as a form of state support. Second form of support, special conditions for tendering, other than the law. The Law on Competitive Procurement provides for certain purchase rules. This Law says that you can deviate from these rules, you can arrange under the table, you can arrange under the bed, but the Law does not work. And thirdly, the terms of the loan, where it doesn't say whether these aids are coming back or not, whether they have to be paid or not to be paid, and this is about the state budget. And I suggest that the honourable colleagues send this document, vote for its inadmissibility. And so that such documents will never appear again in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u47	Yes. Please, Puzakov, follow him Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u48	Vladimir Puzakov Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština There is no need to even give examples of how state aid was not directed to support entrepreneurial activities, which was creating an unbalanced business environment, and the efficiency of State resources has been reduced. Not taking competition into account as a criterion for the purpose-oriented determination of the direction and extent of State aid to operators reduces the accuracy of the State’s economic policy regarding the development of market relations. Regrettably, the State did not adopt the only approach to regulating the granting of State aid, creating inequalities in the ownership of its competitors. A number of operators are prevented from using state aid to stimulate unjustified anti-dumping measures, which unjustifiably restricts our producers to domestic and external markets, leading to the total loss of businesses. For example, in the city of Kirovograd, there was once an uprooted repair-mechanical plant called Taratuti, whose production was used not only in our country, but also far beyond our borders, today, although this product is used in demand, but this enterprise is not able without the support of the state to produce its products. The company’s team has repeatedly appealed to the Cabinet of Ministers for support, but nothing has yet come. Although the labour force is relying on state aid from the state. And if this enterprise were to receive state aid, in any way, it wouldn't come to the critical situation that was created today in a factory where the collective is in despair, it doesn't know where and where to get help. This once again says that the State does not have a regulated mechanism for the provision and use of state aid that would encourage the economic development of less developed or priority sectors or individual operators on the basis of generally accepted principles. Therefore, the introduction of the only approaches to regulating the granting of State aid will help to eliminate the inequality of economic operators. And this will lead to a greater overall well-being and development of the economy of enterprises and of the state as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u49	Please, Mironenko, the Communist faction, prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u50	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, given the urgent need for and control over State aid, will be supported by the faction of the Compatriot of Ukraine on first reading. However, I believe that amendments are needed. First, the law should be referred to as “State aid to economic operators”, as indicated by scientific and expert management. Secondly, the Ukrainian Code of Commerce provides for grants. However, the Code and the draft law do not provide for a clear mechanism for granting subsidies, which would lead to abuse, corruption and bribery. Thirdly, public assistance priorities should be clearly defined. It should be pointed out that State aid will not affect foreign enterprises and will be provided primarily to domestic public enterprises, but not to private enterprises. The oligarchs and their servants refer to the Constitution in Ukraine on the equality of all forms of property. But it's another good thing. State money must be directed primarily to public enterprises. In addition, despite the equality of all people, we provide the necessary assistance to veterans, persons with disabilities and other disadvantaged populations. And that's fair. Please also note that almost all of the Gosbanka, for example, have disappeared, which has caused trouble for the economy. State banks have disappeared. Many of the bankers are good people, but they operate in a capitalist environment. If we provide support to Ukraine's economy in the creation of several industrial agricultural and other public investment banks, most bankers will accept it with no admiration but with public positions. Regrettably, however, there are others, such as the banker Chernovetski, against whom several criminal cases have been brought. Under the vicious, cynical debate about the equality of all forms of property, the inadmissibility of monopolies, such native capitalists of the oligarchy who support the candidate of the Presidents of Ukraine, Yushchenko, a former banker, in addition to the many that have done to create private, capitalist banks that robbed the people, the economy, have in fact established a nearly complete private monopoly on crediting enterprises, providing a huge percentage of credit for themselves, by stressing, the destruction of domestic enterprises, the rise of unemployment, the provision of poverty to our people. Under the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Chernovetsk's parliamentary integrity, like most oligarchs, is consciously supported by Yushchenko, a former banker and head of the Government of Ukraine, who has been in power for 11 years, a supporter of the current capitalist orientation, which legally produces oligarchs and oligarchies, the power of not many, i.e. large capitalists. These powers are cynically referred to as democracy, and that is with the total injustice of the people. I call upon you, fellow countrymen, if you do not want the authorities of the oligarchs, the constant rise in prices, tariffs, unemployment, poverty of the people, do not vote for the Cherewskys and their like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u51	Please, Karmazin. I can't see. Solomon, followed by Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, much of the comments that I have had after getting acquainted with the proposed Law, have already been made by my colleagues. And I would like to touch only things that have not been properly addressed in the discussion. I was most surprised by our colleague, Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, who suggested that this bill should not be accepted. I know it's so common that when some oligarchic groups don't influence processes that are difficult in the economy of Ukraine, they always put sticks in the wheels. But when they're holding this wheel in their hands, they're pushing these bills because they're doing them good. Well, let's think about how the question of privatization of the Croatstals has been discussed and accepted. It seems to me that this is the case when we discuss this bill. In order to ensure the work of this bill if it is adopted, it will be necessary to create a structural unit of about a hundred people within the central apparatus of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. It is they who should observe how government aid forms in the form of various benefits, grants, subsidies, loans. And this affects virtually all sectors of the national economy. The cost of creating this structural unit is expected to be 600,000. That's right. Further, some two million dollars a year will be required to maintain it. But I'm sure that this money can be compensated by standardizing these endless grants, benefits, compensations, and so on. Why did "Our Ukraine", in my view, come up with a proposal on the unacceptableness of the bill? And the question is, who will lead this structural unit? This is the person who's going to be on the side of oranges or the person who's going to be on the side of blue and white. "Oranges," they haven't been sure yet that they're going to make their own government bite and deploy their own people, including the Antimonopoly Committee. It seems that we have not agreed on what time with Kostusius to take charge of this matter. Let's figure this out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u53	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine", has the word to prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u54	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovva, Rava Ruska, Yanov, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka. Dear colleagues, I think we have an almost historic episode to record. For me, it's set out in these settings: the absolutely current executive authority that has robbed the Ukrainian people of the turkey wants to take something else for themselves. Because the appearance of such a bill, first of all, is completely illiterate legally, and I won't waste any time on it, because I really like the phrase of a famous man who said that there was a coma in the novel of such a writer, there's not exactly a word used, there's no dash. But it doesn't matter because it's not worth it. That's why we don't have to talk about technology. There's just a point that's built. We understand very well with you that, in fact, state aid -- the beautiful word "humanitarian, investment aid" of the state -- in Ukraine over the years has turned into investment and assistance from several families of oligarchs. The State worked and helped only them, completely forgetting the millions of its people. And the executive authority, using the mental attack, because I'm going to call it, let's say, the behavior of the "Regions" and the respect I have for Mrs. Kirichenko, as a mental attack, or else I can't call it anything. And I really like the phrase of Zadori that "luckily, women in the daytime period have a much smaller impact on politics than they do at night." Using this, we were just about to draft this bill. Not a word about how state aid will be used. There's only how they're going to distribute it. And these ladies of ours will be distributed from the Antimonopoly Committee. And my honourable fellows, once again, I emphasize that the Reds are already dividing the portfolio to lead the Antimonopoly Committee. I'm very grateful, by the way, to Mironka, who said that "someone kind of consciously supports Yushchenka." That's why it's good that "aware," so the rest of the "absolutely unconscious" and stupidly supported. That's why I think it's just our civic duty to throw this bill away, and don't bring God to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u55	Yes, please, Melniczuk Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u56	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. The draft Law on State Aid certainly needs attention. If it were a little bit expanded, if we actually saw in this bill that it corresponds to those questions that the electorate has today, or we're going to talk about, in those labor groups that are really waiting for state support. Therefore, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on this subject has been identified from this bill. We will not support him in the first reading or in other readings, for this is principled. I would like to stop, except that today we are considering a bill on State aid and support, I would like to make a determination with regard to the State Budget. Today the agrarians are concerned and we're worried about the bomb being prepared by the government for the village. In fact, if you didn't want to accept it yesterday in the first reading of Bill 6363, I'm going to refer to the deputies of the Supreme Council, to my colleagues to support it in the second, or it's going to be tomorrow, or it's going to be Friday, because with the adoption of this law, we're going to help the village. If this isn't done in this room, then the village in this situation today is just going to be a chasm, it's going to be even worse, and we're probably going to be destined to have bread brought to us from abroad, like potatoes, onions and other food products from abroad today. As far as I'm concerned. Dear friends, we need to consider one more question. The Committee on Budgets needs to listen to city councils. We still have to look at canceling the article that he's predicting today. has focused more on the 68th article of the Budget Law, since virtually today the city councils have no place to pay their wages, and we have made a difference to this day. Now, I have the address of the Montenegrin City Council on this subject, but this may be true of all the city councils and district councils of local self-government. Nevertheless, we need to consider and determine in the near future on article 68 of the 2004 Budget Act. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you. Perhaps we should not rush to consider the budget and accept it in the way it is proposed today for consideration by the Supreme Council. Again, we need to examine and look at all sectors — education, health care, and the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u57	Yes, please, Carmazine, two minutes. And a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u58	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! This bill is completely unprepared. I am very sorry that the government is asking questions about state aid, but perhaps. It's the same state aid to one of the owls. There is no reference to the payment of State aid. And since the source of government support is purely budgeted, it can't satisfy anyone, it's understandable. Moreover, if we look closely at the Master's Code, which provides for a clear definition of when a State can grant subsidies to operators, and say that it can produce life-saving food, and that it is clear when it is a village; to produce life-saving drugs; to support those operators who find themselves in a critical socio-economic or environmental situation. There's nothing in this law. There are novels here, like "administrative administrations and controls," that's a quote. What is it? What are these organs? What Is a Microentreprehension? What laws do they determine? I want to tell you that this project is not predictable at all, but how it will be designed. If we look at what State aid is allowed, article 6. First. A little state aid. What's small? What is aid to microentrepreneurs? And so there's one question, one question, a contradiction to the Master Code, a contradiction to the budget. I'm against adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u59	Thank you. Kirichenko, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u60	Dear friends! Dear radio listeners! I have great respect for Mr. Yavorowski, and so that my things don't look just like the emotions of a woman, I want to read a few thesis from the Supreme Council resolution, which was adopted on 26 April 2001 on the mistrust of the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Mr. Yushchenko. The social sphere in the countryside has been destroyed. There is a catastrophic decline in the production of plant and animal production, the decline in fertility, and the productivity of animals that threaten the food security of the state. The village’s wages were more than 1.8 billion dollars. The number of workers who have not been paid their salary on March 10, 2001 is 87%. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u61	Yes. Mironenko, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u62	5th constituency, Mironenko, Faction of the Ukrainian Union. Respected compatriots, have spoken, but what Mironenko has said consciously supports, I mean, who knowingly, knowingly supports are the oligarchs, the great capitalists, who rule and make our State, who plunder and pillage. And they want help from Yushchenko and are confident that this will continue to rob the people. Unfortunately, the people themselves are now robbing three parts: the supporters of Yushchenko, Yanukovic and some spit on both, because as for supporters, the oligarchs. I call on the people of Ukraine to move away from this sleep, to move away from believing in a good capitalist, and from a good President to a pro-capitalist. It is hard to conclude that the President will continue to privatize, release of prices, and looting of the people. The only way to end this is to ensure that no supporter of capitalism is elected, and the following, from the first round, must begin to nominate a popular candidate, a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine. It could be a member of a company or even a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u63	Yes. The discussion is over, we will be determined. Dear colleagues, I am the first to put to the vote the decree made by Victor Pinzenik on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian State Aid Act, please identify yourself. [[11:59:48]] For-52 It's a non-adopted decision. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft State Aid Act, Bill 5469. Please vote. [[12:00:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0; "Ukraine regions" - 15; Communists - 57; Social Democrats - 4; People's Agrarian Party - 10; Socialists - 0; "Ukrainian One" - 2; Block Timoshenko - 0; "Union" - 2; "Centre", "Deminicatives" - 0; "Trubic Ukraine" - 9; NDP, Industrial Party - 1; Non-fractional - 7. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about today's diplomacy day, we'll consider one of the bills in a few minutes, and then we'll call it a break. Is there no objection? Bills 6,349 and 6,251 regarding the external intelligence problem will not be considered today, since again there will be no reporters. That is why we do not consider these questions. And now I would like to ask that we look quickly at the ratification, the draft law on the adoption of the Explosives Protocol -- the effects of war, registration number 0221. Can we vote? Vote. [[12:01:53]] For 265 Thank you. The law is passed. The protocol on explosive objects is the effects of war ratified. Yes, before we announce the break, let me make a few announcements. Corresponding to the article. More, better appetite, Roman Mikhailovich. In accordance with Article 4.2.2. and Article 4.2, paragraph 8. On the basis of the decision of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Agrarian Party, please announce at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council that the head of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Agrarian Party was elected before the end of the sixth session and during the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Protocol No. 32 of December 21, 2004]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Kuzmenko Petar Pavlovich from the Socialist Party of Ukraine's Socialist Party. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national MP Vladimir Leonidovic from the Democratic Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Varfolomiyovich, who is a member of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine". A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours, 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u64	Yes, dear fellows, I ask you to take your place in the workplace. We're continuing the meeting. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. There is a draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on the responsibilities of natural monopolies]] Registration number 5508. Reported to the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Sergey Aleksandrovich. Please, three minutes. Get ready for Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u65	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the practice of working the Antimonopoly Committee shows that the acute problem is overestimating the subjects of their natural monopolies. Sometimes such excesses occur as a result of the purchase of raw materials, equipment, and other items at higher prices. In addition, monopolies include excessive tariff costs and are translated into consumers. Such violations account for up to 60 percent of the price of monopolistic abuse. And the damage to them is calculated only by the halted violations of some 80 million in the last three years. That's right. Considering that consumers of goods and services of natural monopolies are all Ukrainian citizens, they pay for the purchase of equipment and raw materials at higher prices to the whole society. The proposed additions to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies provide for the mandatory execution by natural monopolies of purchases of goods, raw materials and materials on a large scale on competitive grounds. The minimum amount of purchases, starting with which they can only be made on competitive grounds, is proposed by the regulator. These organs are well aware of the problems of the relevant fields, and this system seems to be quite flexible. In particular, when purchasing by government authorities, competition procedures show that they allow for a substantial reduction in purchasing prices. There is good reason to expect that such an effect will be achieved when natural monopolies are purchased. Considering what's been said, I'd like to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u66	Thank you, sit down, please. Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! Today, the law on natural monopolies sets out the basic principles for regulating subjects operating in the fields of natural monopolies. But as practice has shown, it does not foresee a national impact on the behaviour of natural monopolies in markets where they purchase essential materials, equipment, and raw materials. What's "doing" here? [[in quotes]] Whoever was involved in this activity knows very well. I think that's how the people's deputies own this situation. Therefore, at the meeting of the National Deputies in the Antimonopoly Committee, an agreement was reached on the need to provide for natural monopolies to be purchased in the same order as for government authorities under the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds. According to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, article 10 adds such content that natural monopolies are obliged to purchase goods, jobs and services on competitive grounds in excess of the level set by the body that regulates natural monopolies in the relevant field in a manner defined by the body. The main scientific and expert office generally supports this legislative initiative, although it has expressed its observations and proposals. I think the speaking MPs will stop at them in more detail. Clearly, the main subjects of natural monopolies are opposed to the bill, and so their opinion may today be called representatives in this room. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments on December 8th decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law 5508 "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies on the Basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u68	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please, Puzakov. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u69	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština What the explanatory note to the bill states is that regulation of natural monopolies is carried out on the basis of Ukrainian pricing and pricing laws, on local government administrations, on local self-government in Ukraine and on natural monopolies is not a complete list of the legal and regulatory instruments that regulate this area of activity. In addition, it is governed by Ukrainian laws: transport, rail transport, communications, the Ukrainian Air Code, the Ukrainian Merchandise Shipping Code, and many other laws. In this regard, it is perfectly legitimate that in order to regulate market relations in this area, the purpose of the project is to extend open hearing procedures to establish tariffs and monopoly services to all executive authorities and local governments. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies suggest that the order of disclosure of information and public hearings regarding changes in prices and tariffs and goods of natural monopolies are determined by the authorities on which the price and pricing law requires approval or regulation of prices and tariffs. But this approach to public hearings is not entirely true. In order for this order to have the force of a legal act and to distribute its action to other subjects, it has to be registered with the Ministry of Justice, or each of the subjects in the field of natural monopolies will begin to set up completely different procedures for discussing and publishing information that will, in fact, lead to chaos. The procedure should be the only one for all natural monopolies, and it should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the public will be properly involved in the control of monopolies of operators when setting prices and tariffs and will be able to influence them accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u70	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. After him, Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u71	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable compatriots! I think that the bill should be supported in the first reading, but for the second naturally to reflect on the amendments, but in general, despite the prudent objective of the bill, which is to impose on natural monopolies the obligation to use competitive procedures for the acquisition of goods, equipment and so on, I believe that this rule will not solve the problem, because the same initial price can be reduced in such a way that, in general, it will be very far to the real price even though the competition is competitive, and the winning competition is usually more often seen to be closer to the Government and no matter what it is to the Government. The winner of the competition will also be rich. Which, in my view, do I need to find a solution to this problem so that the services of the same railway and other natural monopolies are not very high? One. First of all, to prevent the privatization of the natural monopolies themselves because, as is known, privatization. Legally, there has been an increase in tariffs, prices, but not in quality. We all know that in the same British nation. Privatized the railway, tariffs, prices for the same tickets increased, but service quality did not improve. That's got to be taken into account. Second. It is necessary, in my view, to ensure the establishment of a public price policy, a pricing policy. Again, it is necessary to restrict privatization and to ensure that the State returns some enterprises, which are already privatized to natural monopolies, to return some enterprises and to ensure strict regulation. In doing so, it should concern not only public enterprises, of course, but also private enterprises, because it is possible to determine the level of profitability of the enterprise, to ensure that the enterprise has sufficient profits and that the population is not affected. But, of course, it is not of interest, unfortunately, to most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let us tell the truth, because we have 300 million people who receive very good profits, not by increasing production, but only by increasing the price, the tariff, and this situation is totally satisfactory. Therefore, we need to ensure that people are returned to the people's State and that people's policies are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u72	Yuri Solomatin, faction of our Ukraine, Yuri Carmazin, I'm sorry. Prepare Solomon. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The bill that is proposed is a modification to an article in article 10 of the Law on Natural Monopolies, which was adopted in April 2000. Should this law be amended? We have to, but we have to make complex changes. For the time being, it is proposed to make changes to just one article. Besides, I'm not sure they want to do better. Why? In part, yes, they want to do it because they're offering a competitive mechanism, order of purchase for any goods, I emphasize. What about it? Would it not then cause the price to rise to just the service? And I'm allowed to testify. I think it's going to raise prices and I'm going to prove it very quickly. For example. Such a colossal organization, such a monster as the Ministry of Transport, they use the Rail Transport Act, and it states that at the expense of the State Budget, they also buy something on competitive grounds, and they use the Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. Now we say to them, no, all respectable, buy as we say, a little bit in a different order. So I think it should be written that only that applies to the order of purchases that directly affect the price level of the subjects of these natural monopolies. The same Statecombust observed and rightly noted that if so, within the budgeted expenditure and all. And that should be taken into account completely. And what I'm saying is that I'd like both the developers and the Supreme Council Committees to look into the complex after all: what are the principles on which the scientific and expert administration will generally think that it's appropriate to write a new article in general where the basic principles on which it's going to be done are going to be. Yeah, that's why I'm saying that we need to take the changes to the 10th article, but in the complex it's going to draw a new article and change to the 14th article, and a number of articles that will come out of it. So you can conceptually support it in the first reading. But paying attention and taking into account the scientific expertise and taking into account both Mintrans and the Statecommungosp, not everyone there is a thief. Let's look at it from a national point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u74	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. The Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u75	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, when I studied this bill, I came up with this formulation, this definition of this law, and this definition in Russian sounds like good intentions, a road to hell. It's like the adoption of this government bill is going to help and it's going to be a big sign here of whether it's going to help set reasonable prices and tariffs for goods and services for enterprises operating in the field of natural monopolies. It's a poem of "reasonable prices and tariffs." It's still listed as natural monopolies to be influenced, regulated, residential services. Please tell me if the consumer is entitled to, as if on competitive grounds, something to receive or engage and to influence him in the provision of services on competitive grounds. Can it change one Jack to the other in residential services? I don't think so. Or liaison services, please tell our UMC and Kievstar monopolies, who our Antimonopoly Committee has admitted that they are not monopolies if they have tariffs several times higher than in Europe. Could our consumer tell them, however, that we will use the connections of other providers, if you will. No, we can't, because they're like that, change it, don't change it, but they're in conspiracy and they're basically the same tariffs. What's going on with the transport? Let's remember, on the rails, the train ride in the usual pay wagon, what it cost to pay for that salary that was in Soviet times, and how much it costs in these times of capitalism, 4-5 times. Well, I understand that the monopoly of Kirpa John is a charity, he built himself a 25-story house for the Ministry of Transport, Communications and so on. So let's not fool people into thinking that we're here and doing something for the disadvantaged people of Ukraine. But at least a small attempt to satisfy the appetites of those who are living from this disadvantaged people of Ukraine must be made. And in this law, some little thing like this, they predict. So I believe that in the first reading, it may be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies has been completed. [[on the responsibilities of natural monopolies]] This is registration number 5508. The committee's proposal, honourable colleagues, is to adopt this bill as a basis. There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, registration number 5508. [[on the responsibilities of natural monopolies]] Please vote. [[12:53:47]] For 216 We didn't make it, did we? Let's mobilize now. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote there, I will put to the vote the return to the consideration of this bill. Invite the national deputies to the session room. There is a motion for a return to the draft Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, registration number 5508. [[on the responsibilities of natural monopolies]] Please vote. [[12:54:32]] For 316 We're back to reviewing the draft law. There is now a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, registration number 5508. [[on the responsibilities of natural monopolies]] Please vote. [[12:55:08]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft law on the ethics of professional activity of the judge is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4057. The reporter is Mikhailo Markovich Dobkin. Correspondent is the head of the Onopenko Committee, Vasil Vasil Vassilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your point today is a bill on the ethics of professional activity of judges, whose adoption is due to the special role of the court as a judicial authority in Ukraine and to the high demands on persons entrusted with the exercise of justice on a professional basis. Since the effectiveness of judges in ensuring the rule of law and order, protecting the constitutional system and protecting the rights and legitimate interests of natural and legal persons is determined primarily by the position of judges in society, those exercising justice should have not only adequate training and qualifications in the field of law, but also by high moral qualities as independent and subjective to decisions, subjecting only to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. In order to ensure objectivity in the work of professional judges, to exclude any side effects on them in the second part of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, there is a legal condition under which they cannot be part of political parties and trade unions, to participate in any political activity, to have a representative mandate, to embrace any other paid office, to do another paid job. Part five of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides an exhaustive list of the grounds for the dismissal of a judge from a position of occupation, which refers to the guarantees of independent and objective justice, and his status as a representative of the State in the adoption of judicial decisions. The circumstances that are the basis for the dismissal of a judge from office provided for in article 41 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Judges, which provides that a judge may be dismissed for inadequacy of professional knowledge if a qualified commission concludes and decides on the inadequacy of professional knowledge to the judge in office. On February 24, 2000, the Council of Judges of Ukraine approved a Code of Professional Ethics for Judges, which specifically requires the conduct of judges whose judges are to seek to adhere to their professional, public and private activities, avoiding immoral and unlawful acts that undermine the authority of the judiciary. Taking into account the need to consolidate the issue of ethics at the legislative level, I believe that the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law on ethics of professional conduct will allow the judge to make substantial changes to the existing system of guarantees of independence and impartiality of judges, the continued application of the Constitution and Ukrainian laws in order to establish and strengthen the authority of the judiciary in society. Please support this bill and accept it as the basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u78	Thank you. From the committee, please, who will report? Legal Policy Committee. No, I don't see anyone. There's a committee decision. Is there a need to discuss? Let's talk about it. Puzakov Vladimir, please. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u79	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I agree that it is necessary not only to declare the rights and freedoms of judges but also to create normal conditions for professional justice. But let's face it, only a judge chosen by the electorate, as was the case with the Soviet authorities, can be independent of officials of different levels, and so that the judicial administrators don't swear to the local authorities at the service premises, and then, by doing so, give the judges instructions on what decisions to make. A clear example can be the "solution" in the paws of these issues in the city of Kirovograd. The local court of Lenin district, located on the 6th floor of the hotel "Ukraine", is located in the district of the district of Lenin. This court pays for the hotel’s services as an ordinary guest who has come to the city. The Court of Appeal of Kirovograd district is located in a semi-contaminated building. He also had to make a contract with the Mesikonkom about renting the seventh floor of the Kiev Hotel in Kirovograd on a general basis. As you can see, the courts of the Lenin district and the Kirovograd district use furniture and hotel equipment. And as long as our judges do justice in hotel rooms and in hotel beds, no ethics and professional activity will make them independent, because when these matters are resolved, they should go with a bow to the local authorities, which then gives instructions on how to make a decision. If they do not agree to do so, please move out of the hotel. So this law, we really have to create an independent judiciary in our country and the conditions for professional activity that the judge wants to be just a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u80	Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u81	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! I think anyone who has carefully heard the name of this law has taken an interest in it because the question is extremely important. Who had to decide his cases in court, I think he, perhaps, was satisfied, but mostly people, they say, cursed their fate. And there are a lot of factors. And it affects the ethics of the judge's behavior and the factors that my colleague, the previous speaker of Puzakov, was talking about, and a lot of other ingredients. And when it comes to that, those interested in it say, "Can you say that? Not all judges are like that!" I agree that, indeed, not all judges are decent judges, but the very situation, the very conditions they have to work under, makes the judge unethical. And these very articles of the law, or the draft law that we're looking at, if we're going to accept it in this version, they're not going to solve all the problems that we're facing right now. In my opinion, the first problem that needs to be solved is that we can't now confirm the judges on an untimely basis. If they were to be approved for a certain term, whether it's five, or ten years, that we would agree on, and that's better, if we applied the system that was in Soviet power, that judges were elected, then the judge would really be. bear some responsibility both to the law and to those with whom he has to communicate. And yes, I don't want to call it a name right now and call those courts where this was allowed, but a lot of the voter references that they report: both the harsh attitude of the judge, and the failure to resolve the question by law. And by who has a higher rank in society, or who has a larger purse, or some purse with which he has entered into court, and for that reason, the decision is made. We see this, and this is at this moment when these eclipses were going through. Well, if it were about six months ago, the courts would never have made such decisions. As soon as the wind blows to the other side, the courts too adjust and make decisions in the direction of the political wind. You can't do that! We have to stop this. That's why we're proposing to get this bill back.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u83	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the project currently under consideration is very important and serious. I am grateful to my colleague Dobkin for his approach. Why? The bill seeks to determine the rules of conduct that are required for each judge, that is, the requirements of professional ethics. I have a lot of questions about this project. I'm going to say right now that I'm going to ask a question to my colleague Dobkin so he can say that he needs to be sent back for his first reading. In the first reading, it is too early to accept it. But the need, the conceptual necessity of this bill, is that there may not be such a terrible infamous case as there is now, if you think about it, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you're gathering judges here, the head of the Donetsk Court of Appeal, the head of the Luhansk Court of Appeal are going to the Sabbath, and in North Donnie they're sitting in the front row and applauding the separatist's various decisions. Unless they have the moral right to remain in office for at least one day. Of course they don't, but they're not out of their jobs yet. Here is your not-occupied political activity, and this is your not-involvedness, and this is your wisdom, and your tolerance. But, honourable national MPs, please tell us, can we today accept that only 40 percent of us finance judicial authority? And we want to demand both professionalism and ethical and everything. Now the budget is being prepared and for the third year in a row the unequal conditions for the judges of the Courts of Appeal and the judges of the Courts of Appeal are being set up. There are rules that don't divide by how many of these people spend, and that's why the cost of one judge and the wages of one judge are very different. For example, in 2003, judges of farm courts paid almost 2.5 times their wages, and in 2004 they paid almost 2 times their wages to judges of general jurisdiction. Does this contribute to normal moral standards? What has contributed today is what the President's Administration has done, when every head of the court, every deputy of the court, is invited to an interview and thus, as the people say, forced to swear on blood. This is not normal and all of this needs to be regulated by this law, including the amendment of the Law on the Status of Judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u84	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u85	Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction, the Honorable Colleagues, I have great doubts, in general, about the very contents of this draft Law on the Ethics of Professional Activities of the Courts. We have a lot of codes of that meaning, an oath. I'm just going to remind you that there's a Hippocratic oath and how it's performed by doctors in modern socio-economic conditions. There's a codex for journalists. And we've seen you and I lately, as if the journalists were independent, then they ran to one of the candidates and stuck to all the places, even the cause of a certain color tape. You'll forgive me. It's not about who gives the oath or who accepts the code. The point is, what morals exist in our society and that's the main thing, including what our esteemed colleague Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko has offered, is romance, because in the conditions of capitalist relations in society, there is always sales and savage morality and ethics. So what I'm saying is that not only is it necessary, and not so much as a code and an oath, but a socio-economic system that doesn't demean a person, it would ensure a harmonious combination of morals, ethics, and professional responsibilities. Such a system is only and exclusively socialism. And the kind of authority that is capable of establishing this human relationship is Soviet power, so I would like to call you again: let's take the step that we've already taken, we'll put it into practice. This will bring about political reform. And I'm confident that in 2006, our people will finally understand who to vote for, and this is where this sessional Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is going to be a left-wing or totally faction that will renew both Soviet power and socialist order in our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u86	Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The committee considered the bill. And I'm answering Yuri Solomatin, and he doesn't support him as a future law. The point is that there have already been attempts to settle this issue at the level of the law. In 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejected the bill, called the Code of Professional Ethics of Judges. Two years ago, we rejected this codex. I understand my colleague Michael Dobkin, who is asking questions, there are problems in judicial activity. But the point is that this bill, if adopted as a law, does not settle the issue. What is more, according to articles 85, 92 of the Constitution, the powers of the Supreme Council are not defined by the separate laws of the moral and ethical rules of conduct of certain categories of persons. In general, the scope of ethics cannot be regulated by law. Ethical standards are independent and are one of the sources of law, but they should not change the rule. If we're going this way, then we need to establish, say, a code or code of conduct for doctors, teachers, farm workers, I don't know who else. So we think that we don't have to go this way or that we don't have to. Whether or not to accept such an act should be decided by the authorities of self - government, in which case the authorities of judicial self - government should decide. As was actually done by the Assembly of Judges of Ukraine, which is the highest body of judicial self - rule. According to the law, article 112 of the Law on the Courtship of Ukraine. The convention, the fifth assembly of judges of Ukraine on October 24, 2002, approved the Code of Professional Ethics of the Courts. I think it's done right. As far as the substance of the bill itself is concerned, who among you has read, there are many declarations, there are many repetitions, there are many provisions contained in other laws that are now in force in the law on status, the judiciary, the Civil Procedure Code, the Criminal Procedure Code. I mean, I can't analyze it right now. There's no time. Look at this bill. We think that this bill needs to be sent for work or better yet for re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u88	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. The discussion is over. From the motives of Šibko Vitali Jakovic. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u89	Fast, socialist faction, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we are discussing today the question of when we don't know the definition at all: what is the ethics of professional activity. We can't somehow qualify for it separately. And if we're going to write this, what we're going to write, and what's going to be different from the ethics of behavior or the professional activities of the national MP, the militiaman who's in the road service, and so on. It's kind of, you know, non-legislative and non-legislative. I don't think we should, I'm here to support Vasil Vasilovich's definition of all of this, but in general whether it's appropriate to look at it that way at the legislative level. When it comes to writing 127 articles of the Constitution, it is already written. If it's written that a judge shouldn't ask for paper because there's no paper in court, whether it's ethical or not, if there's nothing to write a protocol on, and that's even in the Supreme Court, I've come across it today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u90	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't know how ethical it is to reject the law on the ethics of professional activity of judges. It's probably a really important, topical topic, and maybe that's the law that's needed, but not in this paper. I think that this law should be sent back to re-reading, work on it, raise its level, and then ethically vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u92	Dokkin, author of the project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I am grateful to all my colleagues, the people's deputies, who participated in the discussion of the draft law. I just want to add, I do not claim to be absolute in the truth that this law is perfect, I absolutely do not claim that it should be adopted in that form. I do not agree that, with all due respect to doctors, teachers, policemen, their profession can be placed in the same line as that of a judge. My proposal, therefore, will be that if you perceive the very idea that the law is up to date and should be considered further, let us send it on a re-reading basis, let us take it as a basis and instruct the relevant committee to finalize it carefully. But this will show that the problem exists, that it needs to be solved, maybe in another way than I did, but we are together for a collegiate body to make the only right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u94	Yes, thank you. Honourable National Deputies, discussion of the draft Law on the Ethics of Professional Activities of Judges" has been completed. The committee's proposal is for re-reading. But according to the Rules, we have to ask the question of acceptance as the basis of the draft Law. There's a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Ethics of Professional Activity of the Judge, Registration No. 4057. Please vote. [[13:17:29]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. I put to the vote a motion for a committee to re-read the draft law on the ethics of professional activity of the judge, registration number 4057. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:17:59]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Well. I'll put it to a vote. Who wants to go back to the draft law on the ethics of professional activity of judges? Registration number 4057. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:30.]] For 228 We're back. It is up to the vote to propose to the committee to reread the draft law on the ethics of professional activity of the judge. Registration number 4057. [[13:19:01]] For 244 Decision taken. A draft law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, registration numbers 4057 and 5020 is introduced. [[on the oath]] Reports by Dobkin Mikhailo Markovich, please. Montenegro's next draft law will be a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today you have submitted a bill amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. [[concerning the oath of judges]] The need for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges is that the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws governing the work of a professional judge provide for the responsibility of judges for breaching an oath, irrespective of the position of the judge in the judicial system. Bringing Ukrainian legislation into line with modern world standards, norms and principles of international law, harmonising the legislative bases for regulating the activities of judges, aimed at ensuring impartial, objective and independent justice, creating conditions for the protection of human rights and freedoms and of citizens in the judicial process. New requirements have been put before the judges for the proper realization of the rights and fundamental freedoms of Ukrainian citizens for a fair public hearing of a case within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial court established on the basis of law. Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges defines the text of the oath: "I solemnly swear to the judge honestly and conscientiously, to exercise justice, subjecting only to the law, to be objective and fair." Taking into account the legal realities, the numerous cases of violations of citizens’ rights and freedoms as specific judges, we consider it possible to amend the text of that oath to the judge by highlighting its aspects, such as respect for professional ethics, the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen, the preservation of professional secrecy, the denial of judicial burden and personal interest in the judiciary. Moreover, the changes to this article refer to the need for an oath by all judges, not just the first appointed ones, since the large number of judges elected to the office before the establishment of the independent State of Ukraine did not take an oath of allegiance to Ukraine. The proposed changes will strengthen accountability and improve the quality of the work of judges, strengthen the proper status and authority of judges in order to create an effective and fair judicial system. And most importantly, it will ensure that judges are properly acting to protect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens and the state as a whole, which is an important element of the judicial policy of state power in Ukraine towards the democratization of society and the protection of the constitutional system. In view of the fact that the bill has already been drafted on the profile committee and the drafters of the bill are members of the profile committee, particularly Deputy Pecklusenko, National Deputy Carmazin, I ask you to adopt this bill with your support on the basis and then on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u96	Chernewsky, please. None. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in order not to take up much time, I would like to draw your attention to one feature that is in the text of the oath. First of all, I am grateful to Michael Dobkin for offering another text of the oath or perfecting it. the valid text of the oath that is today. And so did Leonidas of Chernowitz. But first of all, the first bill, number 4058. There is such a record that a judge should take an oath before the body that appointed him or selected him. According to article 128 of the Constitution, if a judge first takes office as a judge, who appoints him? President. And before the President, in fact, the judge has to make an oath. If we choose a judge on the Supreme Council, after the deadline of five years, that means, according to the draft oath, he has to make an oath in the Supreme Council. We can agree with that. But there's one nuance and why, let's say, I don't support the proposal of colleague Dobkin, which is the basis, and in general. Because if, let's say, we're talking about transferring a judge to a local court or a court of appeal, we can translate it into a presidential decree, it's often done. But if it comes down to the election of the judge on an indefinite basis from the local court to the appeal court, he will come here and the judge will have to make an oath. If in a year or two from the Court of Appeal we choose a judge. an appeal court to a higher court, such as a household court or a higher administrative court, must come to this room to make an oath. If again, of course, in a year of this judge's time, we're going to go to the Supreme Court, the judge has to come to us in the hall and make an oath. It's a question. How many times does a judge have to make an oath? When it comes to civil servants and other categories, they make one oath. The judge will be in charge. Yes, to the Ukrainian people, but this is what we're going to be improving this text. That's why we support both of these bills, but. But at first reading, we have to work out, improve with you and make sure that the oath is a model, because for breaking the oath, the judge is called upon to be disciplinary. The committee therefore proposes Project 4058 to accept and vote on the basis. As for Project 5020, I have, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the time is running out, and I'll say a few words after the second draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u99	There, in principle, they resound, positions are similar, but Chernewsky proposes to make an oath on the Bible. It's a question of discussion, it's been a subject of profound reflection in the committee debate, so we thought that we could also adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading, and we already worked on these two bills for the second reading, and I think we're going to find a reasonable compromise, a balanced bill of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u100	Thank you. All right, Vasil Vasilovich, you got it? Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss, Your Honor? Please sign in. Alexander Masenko first. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u101	Deputies! Dear radio listeners! It is also an important bill, which in some ways obliges a judge to act under the law. But I stress again and again that the very fact of taking an oath, well, absolutely yet, if the judge has no conscience, he has absolutely nothing to do with it. We see in practice how much we have in the Bible and why President Kuchma did not take an oath and an oath, and now everyone has come to the conclusion that he has not fulfilled any of the oaths and oaths. And this is the same for the judge that he can formally accept this oath, and in his actions whether he will keep it or not. I can't agree with Vasil Vasilovich that he says that that's how many times you have to take an oath. But as long as it takes, let them take it as many times as they say, here's what they say you don't do, so it would be good, or it would be good, or it would just be done. The trouble is that we're already deputizing, that's how many, that's not the first time a deputy, and every time he takes an oath. And here's what I want you to read from the transcript of one of the deputies' performances, and this is when we were discussing the issue of distrust of the Yushchenk Government, so he says, look, what was the broken fishing industry, what were the actions of the Government to end the coexistence of heads of government in the six regions and heads of district councils? None. The government report did not address the issue of organized crime, the government did not respond to the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Combating Organized Crime in violation of anticonstitutional legislation and numerous abuses, and the price of food prices rose by an average of 28 percent, including 69 per meat, 58 per sugar, 58 per bread. And who do you think wrote those words? The author of these words, one of the authors of this Karmazin bill, and he's usually here talking about charity, because there must be order everywhere, and everywhere we have to stick to some one position. And it turns out that when the wind blows on one side, it says one thing, and as soon as there's something wrong, it's already talking on the other side. That's what I'm stressing once again is what the oath says, what you want it to be, if there's no conscience and no integrity, at least 5 Bibles here and 6 Koran. Out of the hall. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u102	Yes. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u103	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'll ask you to separate her from the speech so she won't spoil my speech on professional matters. And I don't advise my fans to touch the name Carmazin. I would very much like to improve my qualifications. That's right, distinguished national MPs. The bill, which is currently being considered, more faithfully, two bills 4058 and 5020, is common in that they amend the Law on the Status of Judges, and they apply to the text of the oath itself. Because the first bill proposes a new oath, and the Chernobyl bill proposes an order of acceptance, and he proposes that it be accepted with the Bible, taking into account the traditions of our millennial Christianity. Therefore, the distinguished national deputies, from which both the national deputy Dobkin and Pecklesenko and Karmazin and other deputies supported this start. The point is that article 126 of the Constitution provides that a violation of an oath by a judge is the basis for his dismissal from the position of judge. Therefore, the oath must be extremely specific; it cannot be flogged so that there can be no execution of a judge, as was the case with Judge Vasilenko. And now the sword of the house hangs over this judge of the city of Kyiv Court of Appeal. For this very purpose, it is quite specific how to accept this oath, and life has made it come back to that question. Why? Because almost three thousand judges in the state did not take an oath at the proper time, and only after I had addressed President Leonid Kuchma did I issue an anti-constitutional order to which I raised this question on a committee entrusted to the heads of state district administrations in fact to bring the judges to an oath. And this was done in this country in contravention of the Law on the Status of Judges. The President himself broke this oath, his oath, and violated the Constitution, the requirements of the Constitution, and the laws in force. Vasil Vasilovich here was talking about what's absolutely right, what's certain warnings, that if you were to be appointed and promoted by a judge. So Vasil Vasilovich, there's a very simple proposition. In the sentence, "The oath of a judge is made before the body which he is," the word 'first appointed or taken' is added. Why I say "first," one word only adds, and you can vote in both first and second readings. Why am I saying that this is very important?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u104	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. What line? Then, out of the way. Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, a bill on the ethics of professional activity of the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u106	Please calm down. Give me a chance to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u107	Our earlier draft law on the ethics of professional activity is related to what is now being considered regarding the oath of a judge, Law 4058 on the status of judges. And it seems like we've already said everything about this first discussion. But I want to add a few words to that moral sense. I agree that any oath in the charter of a party or in the Bible or in any important historical or religious document does not prevent, unfortunately, any further action by a person who has taken or made such an oath. And you and I are witnessing how every day the chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine announces how rats are running from a sinking blue and white ship to another ship, because at some deaf angle, to get back to another ship, and that's what an orange ship is supposed to be. So I want to say, by looking at us and listening to us, our people and the judges who are part of the nation are following our example. So let's do our utmost to be worthy of our duties, and the oath we swore when we became deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, stand behind this rostrum and swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. We will be worthy of our own responsibilities and of that oath, and the oath we have made will be, in view of us, worthy of our responsibilities and of our people themselves. So I'd like to say in the end that some of our colleagues, I'm not going to emphasize it, and you're going to remember it. He invites judges to swear on the Bible. If this fellow of ours has such a preacher named Adalaji around him, and the origin of how he likes to emphasize one of our fellow MPs, or Burkina Faso, or any other African country, you'll forgive me that it will be this oath, that it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u108	Yes, Andrew School, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u109	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. An oath is the kind of thing that a judge really does have to give once in his life. But the measure of responsibility that this judge will have in the future still has to encourage this oath to be of some other form, because in fact, when a judge comes to the Supreme Council and here gets the authority to execute the case before he's practically deprived of this right, how he likes to joke around here with the deputies present, he gets the status of a judge forever, by the way, I think it would be very good to make an oath to the judge. This could be worked out in the project. So I will stress once again that the first reading calls for the adoption of the law. And it's not because it's written worse, it's just in an oath, as we've seen here, everybody's getting over it. And it has one strict rule of law, which is that it's subject to disciplinary responsibility, because we don't forget that a judge is a living law, it's a law. There is a written law and it is alive. When a judge makes a decision, he often uses his own convictions. So he swears that this own belief will not affect him. Subjective factors, such as the size of the envelopes or the size of the car, will not influence this belief. I mean, that's what an oath is really, and that's what you have to take, roughly, and that's not what you're doing here, norm or norm. It should be made clear that the level of judiciality in Ukraine, unfortunately too large, does not even correspond to the one that was made. Which was made up of judges before. And really, it's not about a textual oath, it's about how it's done and whether it's done. Next, about the Bible and acceptance. Put your hand on it when you make an oath. You know, a lot of people, let's say, mistrust their future, another life. But this means that if you are not interested in God, it does not mean that God is not interested in you. Let's not forget that, and so it's an extra formula, and you could put a voluntary institution here: you want to put a judge -- let's put it -- let's not do it -- let's not do it, let's put a hand on Capital or on a wallet with money and say I took it once, and I won't take it. There are many forms. But the point is that we have to understand, and both legislators have to realize that an oath is just a small reason for disciplinary responsibility. Penalty, criminal responsibility for criminal acts, and anyone who violates the Criminal Code will be accountable to the court, the one who violates God’s commandments will be accountable to another, the Terrible Judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u110	From Vitaly Šibko, then Cherniak. Microphones, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Fast, socialist faction, Dnipropetrovsk. I would still like to draw your attention to the tex that was offered, the text of the oath, because it's, I think, important because it's going to make decisions about the activity of a judge, and there will be scrupulously watching that he broke when he said the words of the oath. So we shouldn't treat it that way, which it might be, an oath, and yet the judge's actions will be considered if he violates anything. That's the first one. And the second. If we're going back to that, and that's the right thing to do in order to improve this text of the oath, then I want to say that, unlike, for example, my opinion on the first law that was discussed here, this one needs to be examined by law, but it needs to be considered with a second reading, because again it's a professional ethic. And professional ethics isn't defined at all in any dictionary, and what it's going to apply there is going to be very difficult. Therefore, it is possible to vote in favour of this bill, but not with the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u112	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are in this case three questions that relate to each other. The first is the text of an oath, the second question is the fulfillment of an oath, and the third question is the penalty for failure to perform an oath. I support the proposal that this law should be adopted in the first reading, that the text of the oath should be refined, that every word should be considered, indeed, for what the judge will be responsible. But the main thing is to do the oath as it does, and what are the criteria, how can we evaluate the execution of an oath by a judge. And the main thing is punishment for failure to do so. We've had very few cases where the committee and the session hall have turned down the judges' candidatures. I don't remember cases where, well, there aren't a lot of cases if you're being punished criminally. So we need to think about these questions in perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Well, it's a lineup after we finish the question. This is not the subject of the bill, but rather a replica of what your last name was. We're going to vote now, and then there's going to be a line. If you don't mind. I'll put the drafts to the vote in order for the registration to come. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges is put to the vote. Registration number 4058. The authors are Dobkin, Paklusenko, Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:43:18]] For 265 Decision taken. Yeah, well, the other one's got a project. We're putting him to the vote, too, aren't we? And the second project, your honorary colleagues, the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on the way in which you take an oath and its text for acceptance as a basis. The author is Chernevski. [[13:43:57]] For-67 The bill was rejected. Well, it's a small amount. There's only one left. I ask the committee to work with the proposals contained in the draft law, which is the author of which is Leonid Chernewicki. The draft laws on the addition of 5021, 5762, 5763 to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges are being published. Let's finish the consideration of these bills and so on. Oh, I'm sorry, the line. Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! As a self-involved political man, the head of the Party of Fatherland Defenders has always criticised all governments for not fighting the shadow economy. Today, it is nearly 50 percent of the gross domestic product. I read all the bills, unlike the ones who wanted to stab me or insult all the bills to one. And I want to and I know how to improve our work a couple of times. And I was definitely against the fact that when Yashchenk was shot, I was protecting him. And it is these political forces that are slandering me today that these political forces have destroyed all the good that Yushchenko did, destroyed that fight against the oligarchs, and so you have to be responsible for all the negative consequences that are currently planned for almost 20 billion government deficits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! The report is chaired by the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergey Ivanovich Slabenko. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u117	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Three bills are proposed, which are very similar to each other, according to the proposed revision of article 43 of the Law on the Status of Judges, namely. the settlement of the question of the inclusion in the general service of the judge, which gives the right to resign further: (a) in the operational and search activities; (b) lawyers; and one option is legal counsel. You know, we've had a very difficult and difficult discussion on this subject on the committee. Last Thursday, I asked you a question about who we now have very actively wants to be elected as judges. They are former law enforcement officials in the office of prosecutors and investigators. Why? Because under the current legislation, they are given the right to resign at some time if they get 10 years of service to the judge. Now in these changes to the law, it is proposed to extend the category of people who could, by working on a certain term of office of a judge, apply for early retirement. If, in the first case, when we're talking about operational search activities, even though there's a certain limit to understanding that it's a public service, it's a continuation of the public service, if we look at the third branch of power, as a public body, justice, then people are working in the public authority. If, on the other hand, they serve as lawyers, legal counsellors, there is a measure of caution as to how they can count now their internships when they worked as lawyers, or legal advisers, to include them in the public service, and to allow them to retire early. The discussion, quite a bit, was great for us in the Committee, but we looked at that: well, there are other bills today, namely Bill No. 45, 41 on the Ukrainian judiciary, which in turn also makes proposals for admission to internships, which entitles judges to resign and receive monthly maintenance, in addition to serving as judges in Ukraine. Also, directly, another job, such as in positions that would provide for leadership, or in the control of the activities of judges in other authorities in which such control functions took place. In my opinion and in the view of the Committee, we can take all these bills as a basis and, very carefully working with the Committee, try to come up with such a formula of proposals if we could put together three of these bills first and make an agreed decision for your consideration in the second reading. Please support, accept these three bills as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u118	Yes. Thank you. Please sit down. Let's have a brief discussion. Yuri Carmazin, please prepare for Mironka. Dear colleagues, I ask you to continue our session for five minutes so that we can complete this consideration and close the morning session. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u119	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, in fact, decided on the committee to consider these bills in the complex. This is actually about amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, which provides for the right of a judge to resign. And I personally cannot agree with Bill 5763, where the work of a legal adviser at enterprises, institutions and organizations is part of this internship, because the judicial work is specific, it is limited to the fact that a judge has certain limitations, he has no right to work anywhere, no business activity, and so on. The same applies to police personnel, both security officials, government officials, and prosecutors. So we can compare it to these other positions. With regard to these positions referred to, legal advisers, and with regard to another 5762 project, where this is about. I think it can't be accepted and accepted. Other than that, it's going to be a huge budget cost. And I want us to be clear about that. So I think we need to adopt Bill 5021. And in principle, in order to find consensus, there would be nothing wrong with how we adopted the bills and all three of them in the first reading, and then we'd be more comfortable working. Although we can do it differently. We can take 5021 and write, well, given the positive points in Bills 5762 or 5763. In my opinion, that would have been legally more faithfully done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u120	Victor Mironenko, a faction of Communists, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u121	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people, respected fellow countrymen. I'll state my position. Well, in my opinion, Bill 5021 needs to be supported, because indeed, people in search of operations are in great danger. To some extent, they could be likened to judges. Moreover, when we begin to work as an operative and then become a judge, a person may not retire because it is impossible to combine these periods of work in the current situation. This part of the population must therefore be taken care of. That'll be reasonable. But with regard to, for example, legal advisers, I express great doubt and agree with the previous speaker. It is not possible to compare the work of this part of the population with that of the judges. Indeed, judges are subjected, if they are judges of principle, to enormous psychological, moral pressure. Against them, in general, we know in the same United States, Italy and other capitalist countries are organized by attempt, murder and so on. So, what could be the comparison between a legal counsel and a judge? By the way, we are approaching the United States of America and Italy on crime. We still have some amount of inertia from the socialist period when Ukraine was part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and had a lot less crime than in those Western countries. But, I stress, we are getting closer. That is why we must take care of operatives and judges. But I would like to draw attention to the following. That we have many fine judges, high-ranking judges, principled judges who serve only the law. Regrettably, however, a large number of judges are subject to full and current guidance. And let us not follow the example of the Supreme Council of Ukraine taking a decision on political motivations, not a legal decision, but a political one. In fact, she intervened in the cases of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the election of the President of Ukraine and put pressure on judges in this way. And the judges, I don't want to overwhelm them because it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that approves the judges, and the judges have taken, repeated, duplicated the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I stress, here's your fault, I'm sure there is. You suppressed this order and then prevented the adoption of another order that would repeal this anti-constitutional order that we have adopted. Let us acknowledge this guilt of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and yours, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and continue to prevent us from interfering with the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the case of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u122	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Then there's Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The two previous speakers fully outlined the substance of the problem. And there seems to be nothing more to offer in the discussion process, and I would therefore like to express my view that we should support Bill 5021, which is intended to take into account the work of ex-police personnel who have begun to engage in judicial activities and to prepare for retirement. That'll be fair. And in the case of counsel and counsellors. Let us, as it is said, postpone until then, see how the bill begins to work with the changes that we are currently discussing, and we can further approach and protect practically other categories of law enforcement personnel in order to take their wishes and wishes into account and protect them if they engage in judicial activities. And at the very end, I would like to say the following. Any courts bear the birthmarks of the society in which they operate. We had a Soviet court, the most just court in the world, as one of the movies with irony said, and now we feel, especially the common people who work, that it really was. And it was primarily aimed at bringing large corrupt collectors to justice. What do we have today? Is our Ukrainian independent court today the most just court in the world? And the activities of the highest bodies, including the civil affairs chambers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, regarding the recognition of the results of the elections in the second round of the presidential elections, have demonstrated that this court is the world's “justest” court. [[& Tiles]] And this decision has made a series of such decisions in the future. Unfortunately, it's a big one. I would like to ask you, let us do everything to ensure that the courts are protected, they feel that they are able to make decisions for the benefit of our society and the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u124	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u125	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. You know, in everything I don't agree with what the previous speaker said. It rarely happens that, in principle, I don't control a deputy's speech there, if it doesn't actually touch the bill, but even this final part is pathetic. Well, the judicial branch of power woke up, making a decision for the first time, probably not. And as for the bill, it's absolutely radical: I'm an ardent opposer of workers who never take part in the process. What is operational-searching activity? That's it. I respect these people, I respect investigators who do applied work, they're unique professionals. But, well, if you say that this internship can be counted as plus a judge. If a person had left behind operational and search activities, studied for a long time, snuggled, passed through the bar, through. Or at least the prosecutor's office, she can claim that her work in court will be included. In the D.A.'s office, I mean, and in the bar, because it's a job in the process. Well, what's the operational search, what's the court doing here? Explain to me, please. Well, it just doesn't have an explanation after all. It's an appropriate job and quite another, it's a living law, it's hunting, it's actually criminals. An operative, he doesn't catch a suspect, he catches a criminal for him. This is then decided by the court, in which case the subject we have been caught will act. So I would say that other forms of activity could be included in the traineeships of the judges: the prosecution, the attorney general's office. Support the first reading of 5762 and 5763, and 5021 do not even support the first reading because it is conceptually incorrect. We have a lot of other things: there's a teaching activity where you can count it, it's also good, but it's not operational research. It would be as successful to offer more agency work to include a judge in his internship. Well, basically, that's not true. And the judge -- very often it happens -- after he's been in the search and search for 10 years, he's sitting there for about six months -- and he's claiming to be a judge. We had these precedents even in the session room when it was not possible to clarify the biography, I say again, the production biography of a judge or a judge. So I am absolutely against, with all due respect to the author of the bill, to the legislator, I tend to maintain, and only in the first reading, to carefully work out the committee, to make my proposals and to make these suggestions a normal, legitimate painting. I would like to stress again: 5762, 5763, and 5021-- no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u126	The discussion is over. For reasons, please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Then Slabenko, Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u127	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it happened that the agenda was dedicated to the courts. But you and I understand, especially you understand, leading a party like the People's Agrarian Party that is in the country today. So I would like for us to return to Bill 6363 this week, so that we can devote at least half a week to the Ukrainian agrarian economy bills. And next. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, in carrying out the mandate of the voters in the region of Chernobyl, thank you for having responded to the telegram I gave you in your name regarding the power cut in the village area from 17 to 20 hours in the evening. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and we need to make sure there are no more shut-offs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u128	Sergey Slubenko, please microphone. Then it's Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u129	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that all these changes are more and more, and they attract more attention to whether people want to work with judges. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm going to ask you to give a protocol commission, to examine why the House Court is so eager to be admitted to office right now. Because the salary in the Court of First Instance is higher than in the Courts of Appeal with the general jurisdiction of judges. So every time we go back to the question of expanding the category of people who may claim to be then enrolled in judicial internships and other work that they have done either in public authorities or in legal advisers or lawyers, we should always remember that the interest in this work will always be great as long as there is a material incentive in this work. Vladimir Mikhailovich, speaking of the 2005 budget, I would like to take this note into account now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Then Carmazine and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in my opinion, there are two questions that we should consider. It's about criteria and the question of incentives. The question of criteria for extending court registration. criteria for extending the categories of people who can be counted by judicial experience. And there's a delicate side to it. On the one hand, you can't count the ones you shouldn't. On the other hand, do not insult those to be counted. As a result of what we now have, it is not possible to include an internship for lawyers and legal advisers who do not have a direct bearing on judicial activity, and anyone else can. So you have to clearly split it all up here. And it's also a question of incentives for judges, which we're also going to have to decide. As a result, I support the proposal to vote in favour of Law 5021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u133	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! Now there was a harsh image of the judges of the Supreme Court from the rostrum. I want to apologize to them for allowing myself to do so because the court, in its decision on 3 December of this year, was guided by articles 8, 71, 103, 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 13 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, article 98 of the Presidential Election Act, articles 11, 24, 20 of the Ukrainian Central Electoral Commission Act, and also by the Law on the Central Election Commission. And there's no, it's Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-22-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? In accordance with the Rules, I will put bills to the vote. Bill No. 5021 on the addition to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges is the first to be put to the vote. [[on the inclusion in the judicial service of operational-search work]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:07:10]] For-163 The bill was rejected. The draft Law, registration number 5762, on the addition to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, on the inclusion of legal counsel into the judicial system is put to the vote. [[14:07:45]] For 171 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A bill, registration number 5763 on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, on the inclusion of legal counsel into the judicial system is put to the vote. [[14:08:18]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Yeah, what's the committee's offer? Well. Let's do it again first, put to the vote for re-reading the bill, registration number 5021, please identify yourself. Well, what does it do, then it's rejected, all right, we'll go through the whole procedure. [[2:08:53]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. It is up to the vote to be adopted on the basis of draft Law 5762, sorry, it is up to the vote to refer to the re-reading, draft Law 5762 on the addition to the Law on the Status of Judges on the inclusion of legal counsel into the judiciary, please be determined. [[2:09:31]] For-78 Thus, honourable colleagues, Bills 5021, 5762, 5763 were rejected. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. From 15 hours of work on committees, factions, and groups. At the 16th meeting of the Conciliation Council, with the participation of representatives of the government, acting as Prime Minister, heads of parliamentary groups and factions, as well as representatives of the Budget Committee. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock.
