ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m1.u1	I'd like the deputies to register. [[16:02:43]] There are 355 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council is publicized. Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the consultations, developments and situations that have taken place between the morning and evening meetings. A temporary special commission was working to finalize a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. This is about the 4180 Bill. All these problems that were brought to the attention of the Temporary Special Commission, she practically solved them all. That is, part of the proposals made by any part of the factions, members of the Temporary Special Commission have supported, and they will be submitted to your consideration. The part of the proposals that were made did not receive support, but again it will depend on our consideration with you. So far, the most plausible position that we have agreed to find agreement on a consensus council is to find agreement with the leaders of political factions and groups. This is about the end of transitional positions, namely the deadline for the entry into force of the Law on Changes to the Constitution. Here are the different approaches: some insist that, as a result of the situation in which the state has come into existence, the joint statement of the two presidential candidates, the leaders of our state, and the international mediators who have recently been signed about changes to the Constitution and on this basis the formation of a new Cabinet of Ministers is taking place. That is, in order for him to be legitimate and constitutionally proposed to introduce these constitutional changes as soon as they are adopted. Bill 4180 contains, if you recall, that these changes take effect after the appointment of the newly elected President of Ukraine. But you can see that we are so choosing our presidents that this process can be delayed. Others suggest that the introduction of these changes should be postponed altogether, but once again, different proposals. Some have proposed that they should be put into effect only after the 2006 parliamentary elections since September 1, 2005, the second of January 1, 2006. I mean, it's already in the condition that the Supreme Council has a new calling. The reconciliation of positions on this very most important, most plausible issue when we introduce these changes into the Constitution is ongoing and will be completed at the next meeting of the Conciliation Council. Following the recommendations of the expert group that we set up yesterday, this group consisted of two representatives from each candidate to the Presidents, the group consisted of representatives from each parliamentary faction and group, a representative from the current President of Ukraine, representatives from two professional committees, from the Committee on State Building and issues related to constitutionality and legality, and for some time the committee made recommendations on how to get out of this situation. In order to implement it, the committee led by Anatoly Sergiyevich Matviyenko made appropriate proposals for changes to electoral legislation. That is, in the course of the consultations, and once again, in the light of our agreements, we must commit ourselves to the question of amending the Constitution and the issues related to the use or application of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, based on the ruling of the Supreme Court and the ruling of the Supreme Court, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council by the Central Election Commission. You probably know that the Supreme Court is now, as they say at the final stage of this issue, they're in the advisory room where they've been working for more than four hours to reach a verdict of this court. Now in these minutes, and about the third after fifteen o’clock, the meeting of the President of Ukraine, the economic bloc of the government and representatives of the factions of all without excluding the factions of the parliamentary groups that are within our parliament began. In connection with such a meeting with the purpose and necessity of the meeting, we interrupted a meeting of the Conciliation Council that lasted and agreed that when we returned from the meeting, we would continue this meeting in order to come out with agreed projects. At the Conciliation Council, which took a break in the meeting, there were also two suggestions for our further work. One proposal, in particular, was made by representatives of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, to announce a recess in our meeting today and to meet tomorrow at 12 o’clock. This proposal didn't get the support of the other members of the Conciliation Board, so I'm going to let you know what's going on right now, and we're going to take a break for an hour or so, and then we're going to hold a meeting. Because I'm not ruling out, my dear colleagues, that today we can accept the necessary legislative acts for which we continued our meeting, today we have scheduled for tomorrow and after tomorrow, and, if we do what we voted for on Saturday and Sunday, we will not need Saturday and Sunday to hold meetings of the Supreme Council. So on such an optimistic note, my esteemed colleagues, I announce a recess at the meeting of the Supreme Council within 17 hours of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I am delighted by the discipline of the national deputies and your sincere desire to work. That's very good. But the process is still going on. But the process is still going on, and the President's consultations, the faction leaders and the government are still going on. I just got off the phone with the head of the Supreme Council, and he asked us to take a break with you before 6:00. There's an 18-hour recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-03-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? In view of the fact that the meeting I told you about, which began at 3 p.m., is still continuing until this time. Based on the fact that we can only work until the 18th hour of the 15th minute, I just had a conversation with the Chief of the Supreme Council, and he did the same, using the presence of all the representatives and faction leaders there, he held a short meeting of the Conciliation Board, and they made such a decision that we are now closing meetings, and tomorrow we will be working at 12 o'clock. This evening’s session is closed. Start work tomorrow at 12 o'clock. Today, however, the Conciliation Council will take place in about an hour’s time for further action. I'll see you later.
