ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for your registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:27]] It's registered to negative 427. There were 427 national deputies registered, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider where two bills on the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. If you had no objection, we might have waited until the national deputies after. The Committees will return and will now consider the draft Law on the Settlement of Inter-Budget Relations at the level of the territorial communities of villages, villages, cities of district importance and their integration, as it does not need to be integrated into the agenda. No objections? None. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Chamberlain. I ask you to prepare for Merkovsky and Fomenko Katerina Alexandrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that when you look at the government program, at least in the hops area, because there were a few dozen calls, the radio just went deaf, and people couldn't hear anything. [[referred to as "First channel" of Ukrainian Radio]] So I ask you to pay attention to this, and when the broadcast goes straight, let it be pure, or it is obtained as the former freedom has been suppressed by the Soviet authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u3	I ask the Mikola Tomenka Committee, as well as the secretariat, to verify how the Supreme Council's decision to highlight the activities of the Supreme Council in the course of its consideration of the Government's report and the Government's Programme of Action for the next period and to provide written information. Dear colleagues! The draft Law on the Settlement of Inter-Budget Relations at Areas, District Communities, Villages, Villages, Cities of District Value, and Their Unity is being announced for consideration. Reporters: Deputy Finance Minister Merkovsky, as well as National Deputy Catherine Fomenko. Prepare a co-report from the committee. It's offered to the interviewers up to five minutes, three minutes to answer the question, three minutes to the co-rapporteur, three minutes and three minutes and 15 minutes to discuss. [[I'm going to take a look at our regulations, my dear colleagues.]] Is there no objection? None. Then please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u4	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! During the country's years of independence, real steps have been taken towards reforming the budget system, establishing transparent rules of conduct for budget participants, and radical transformations have taken place in the area of inter-budget relations. The only method of budgeting for socio-cultural needs, social protection of the population, has been approved. Grants and local budgeting have evolved from redistribution to district budget over the last three years directly to district and district level cities, and they are defined as full participants in the budgetary process. As early as 2001, when you accepted the Code of Budgets, you decided that it would be necessary to continue to improve the tool in the distribution of grants and to align local self - government budgets at the district level, namely, to the budgets of villages, villages, and cities of district importance. To this end, the Government of Ukraine has drafted a bill on the settlement of inter-budget relations at the level of the village, the village, the city of regional importance and the area that we are considering today. The purpose of the draft law was to define the order and mechanism for the establishment of inter-budget relations between the district budget and the budgets of cities of district importance, villages, villages and communities that are not fully regulated by the Code of Budgets. In order to ensure impartiality in determining the volume of inter-budget transfers at the district level between the district budget and the respective budgets of the territorial communities, it was suggested that a single calculation algorithm should be applied, the basic principles of which are now being implemented at the centre and district level. On the basis of the proposed algorithm, both the volume of grants from the district budget and the amount of the removal of funds from the village, village and district budgets should be determined to the district budget. Among the main principles to be used in the formula were the financial standards of budgetary security, the number of residents and consumers of social services, the coefficients of influence of various factors, and so on. The government bill determined that the parameters should be determined by the decision of the district councils and district councils when the respective budgets were approved. In order to take into account the specific features of local self-government budgets, the bill envisaged the provision of appropriate resources to the district budget for distribution among the territorial communities, based on the principle of subsidiarity. Of course, you, honourable national deputies, know the complexity, contention, and even court proceedings result in an informally valid order for determining the volume of inter-budget transfers at the district level. As a result, there are cases of non-approvals by rural or rural, districtal cities of importance by transfer boards in the ranges defined by the District Council. Typically, this refers to funds to be transferred to the higher-level budget, so-called, money-removal. This leads to a violation of the deadlines for the approval of local budgets, significantly reducing the effectiveness of financial relations at the district level. However, I would like to say right away that the government bill was drafted in 2002 and in early 2003 and submitted to the Supreme Council in June. And over the course of the year, we've had a change in tax legislation, and in the bill that was proposed there, the formal approach for today is somewhat out of date. However, the government has been working and is now working to improve this mechanism and to find new solutions. Taking into account legislative imbalances, the question of how to form inter-budget relations at this level was found in article 60 of the State Budget Act 2004 and the corresponding preparation of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Minfin and the Government was elaborated in detail on an alternative bill on the settlement of inter-budgetary relations between the district budget and the budgets of the territorial communities, submitted by the People's Deputies of Fomenko, Matvienko and Zovtjak, registration number 4006-1. The findings and observations of this matter have been presented. I would like to point out that this bill also needs substantial work to be done in relation to the particular contradictions of its current budgetary legislation, the impossibility of taking into account the changes in tax legislation in the proposed approach of certain income indicators of the relevant local budgets and other controversial ones, I would say, questions. First of all, this applies to the powers of district and district government administrations, such as district administrations, to approve transfers from the district budget if they are not determined by the district council. This calls for changes to the Law on Local Self - Government and Local Government Administrations. Secondly, it is forbidden to increase the calculation rate determined by the government for income to the area concerned. However, the Local Self - Government Act does not limit the district council’s ability to determine the projected income of part of their budgets. And thirdly, there are some uncertainties in the introduction of an aggregated approach to the calculation of the income and expenditure of local budgets. This applies primarily to the central definition of the single standard of budgetary security, which should be approved in relative terms, not in absolute terms, but in relative terms. [[I'm almost done.]] Therefore, the Ministry of Finance and the Government proposes to adopt a draft draft law on inter-budget relations in the first reading and to prepare a joint draft on this issue on the basis of proposals from the National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in, if any. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Three minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u6	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, the bill states that the financial standards for each sector's budgetary security, I stress, each sector is approved by the decision of the respective district councils, at the expense of determining the amount of inter-budget transfers. But the bill does not clearly define which sectors will be included in the determination of inter-budget transfers. I'd like you to explain. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u7	Thank you. These areas are defined in the Codex Budget. There is an appropriate article that clearly identifies what is included in the determination of inter-budget transfers, that is, what areas of expenditure at the district level, at the district level, and at the rural and rural levels. This is addressed by the Budget Code itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u8	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u9	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I take it, there's also an autism for anyone who reports this bill. In your speech, you expressed this point of view so that you could take it as a basis, and then the MP's bill would go into your component. Or maybe the other way around. Please justify the need to vote, for example, for your bill, because we can vote for one. There are two of them. We have to vote for one. Please state the need to vote in favour of your bill, and the rejection of the parliamentary or vice versa is the vote in favour of the parliamentary bill and the rejection of the Cabinet bill. Because they seem to complement each other, but there are different approaches.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u10	I think it's better to build on the government bill, and all the positive points that are in 4006-1 are added to the government bill. Why? Because, I've already said, 4006-1 is a series of substantial, so to speak, contradictions and the Law on Local Self-Government, on local government administrations and the corresponding, so to speak, provisions of the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u11	George Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u12	George Manchulenko, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Please give the word to a colleague of the Valery Assadchev faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u13	Valerius Assadchev, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u14	Thank you. Anatoly Ivanovich, I have a very procedural question for you. I understand that these relationships need to be regulated now between the village and village levels, because it's not regulated in the budget code. But explain why you're doing it, and Katerina Fomenko's going to do it -- you're doing it in a separate law. Well, we have a code -- it's a coded law. We've already codified it. Let's do this as a change in the budget code in a separate chapter, let's say that's about these inter-budget relations. We'll have full legislation. Now we're spraying all the legislation again. Imagine, then, that we will have to make some changes regarding inter-budget relations. We will have to introduce them into both the codex and the law. It's not easy to work, I think it's both government and parliament. So I suggest you accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u15	I can give you an answer now. There are no such comments in principle. We have acted in accordance with paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions, where it is written that we should draft a bill on the settlement of budgetary relations, but if we introduce it as an integral part of the Budget Code, there is no principle of the government's remark to that effect. We agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u16	Yes. Thank you. Please sit down for a while. Katerina Alexandrovna, please. Your position on your bill. To prepare for the Budget Committee, who will be speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, this is a venerable Presidium. In recent decades, almost all countries of the world have followed the path of decentralization. Ukraine did not stay away from these processes, and in terms of inter-budget relations, it also initiated inter-budget reform, and in 2001 it voted in favour of the Ukrainian Budget Code. I want to say that it was this document that broke those vertical connections when Ukraine's budget was built in a so-called "mother-like way" when Ukraine's State Budget was approved, then the budgets of the areas, the district budgets, then the budgets of the cities of regional importance, the district and so on, and so on. I want to say that it was the introduction of the budget code that broke these vertical links and proposed a fundamentally new methodology for the distribution of inter-budgetary relations when inter-budgetary transfers are defined by the formula. But this is where the fiscal reform stopped, right on the borders of the district government, the district council, all these positive changes were halted. Why? This was marked by the final position of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which stated that two years later, a bill should be drafted to regulate inter-budget relations at the district, village, village, city, union, and district budget levels. So for today, we're looking at this bill, and I want to put out some of its basics. Most importantly, we have proposed in this bill the very formal distribution of these inter-budget transfers. Why? Because right now, well, that's where the so-called manual division divides these budgets. And we demand that it be exactly 13,000 budgets, and we have almost 13,000 budgets, and I emphasize this figure, and you understand the importance of this issue, what its price, will be offered to the local self-regulation bodies themselves. We defined the formula, we didn't define it, and we didn't name it in the law, because it's a rule of law, but we've defined the main parameters that are going to be in this formula. How are they different from the one that is in operation today, and how are the 689 budgets allocated to Ukraine? We suggested the following. First. Consider the minimum level of budgetary security. And here we disagreed with the government bill because they proposed that this level of minimum budget security should be determined, understand, at the level of the area. Why at the level of the area? This is because it is a matter of power delegated by the State. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, you emphasized this thesis today. Please tell us why the minimum level of budgetary security, such as in Lviv, Donetsk, or Lugansk, should be different. Can you please tell me why? This is because it is a matter of power delegated by the State. And it is for the state to determine what its spending policy will be. So we insist that this indicator be calculated at the state level and that it be the only one for all of Ukraine. The other one. We've suggested using so-called coefficients of factorial influence. What are we talking about? You know how much trouble it was for local governments to have this kind of distribution of budget funds, if, for example, we didn't consider the length of roads, or the number of local self-government locations, or even the rate of fuel being used by the budgetary institutions. So today we're proposing the introduction of these, factorial, factorial influences. Well, it's also going to be mandatory to have indicators like district budget revenue controls, revenue controls from individuals and so on and so forth, but the main ones that I called them. I want to say that we have regulated this law another rule that was very, very often violated at the district level: we have settled in a way that agrees with this distribution and the district government, and it is the district government that will perform that control function that will meet the local budgets, whether this distribution is properly made. And already in the circuit board session, when the budget at the village, village, city level is approved, these materials will be added. We also suggested that, in a separate chapter, we define procedures and deadlines for the adoption of local budgets, which, for the most part, were disrupted. I want to say that this bill was prepared with the Association of Ukrainian Cities. This bill was worked with the Congress of Ukrainian Regional Authorities, and we worked on it almost in an articleistic way. Moreover, at the initiative of the head of the budget committee, we have gathered 25 areas of Ukraine at the level of the heads of the district financial administrations, rural, village councils and with them every and every one of the articles of this bill. So I didn't understand the position of the Ministry of Finance because they supported our bill at the budget committee meeting and accepted it as a basis for further reading. Dear National Deputies! I want to say that the adoption of the bill will provide a legislative basis for our villages, villages, cities, and these, I repeat, 13,000 who have separate budgets, already at the legislative level, to determine their funds and to be able to calculate them as needed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Catherine Alexandrovna? Please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Yeah, three minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u19	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Catherine Alexandrovna, please tell me if you can't see that the bill you're proposing is the other side of the matter. As every stick at two ends, and at your suggestion, I think it's reverse. the end, which can thus be fucked in general by the budget and by the relationship of the authorities of different levels. What do I mean? Now everyone's going to regulate these inter-budget transfers, the local militia's showing up, the local mafia's showing up, and so on. Do you not feel that this will eventually lead to 36,000 independent states in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u20	I want to correct 13,000 independent states. You know, I don't see any mistake here because this rule was proposed two years ago on June 21, 2001, when the Ukrainian Budget Code was adopted. It was to the end of this Codex of Budget that we determined that we would adopt this law in just two years. You know, I want to say this. This law only regulates relations at the level of the village, the village, the city. And I don't see any, let's say, reasons that could lead to the unwanted actions that you're calling today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u21	Instead of the National Deputy of the Unscrupulous Masters, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u22	Catherine of Alexandria. Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Žmerinski constituency. You know, I fully support your, let's say, efforts as heads of the inter-budget relations subcommittee to improve our budget code, especially with regard to things like factoring in. Indeed, the Vinnitsk region, for example, has much less impact on gasification, perhaps on rural areas, especially schools. And one calorie on coal and one calorie on gas are different things. And the calculations for the same student are the same. Accordingly, I welcome your bill and I believe it is correct. But you said the numbers. So that we don't go back to those, you know, separate budgets. There's a budget that we're planning, and there's a budget that's issued by the Ministry of Finance, and then it's clearly planning its budget. It's like we're here to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u23	As far as the coefficients of factorial influence are concerned. Yes, I thank you for supporting this standard, because it has been discussed with 25 areas for a very long time. And we've decided today that these are the coefficients that will be confirmed by the decision of the District Councils. Because each district council, as no one knows, knows exactly the coefficients of factorial influence that operate in Winnitsky, Žitomirsky, or Luhansk. As far as the checkpoints are concerned. Yes, at the time of the adoption of the State Budget, the district government receives these numbers. And we think it's necessary to emphasize that when it's distributed, it's also the Ministry of Finance's observation that when these benchmarks are distributed to lower-level budgets, they shouldn't exceed those control numbers that were proved when the state budget was approved. But every level of local self-governance, every village council has the right to accept and greater numbers, more than those marked as control. And you know that most areas go for it. Why is he coming? It's because there's not enough of them, these costs. So they're proposing to increase both the revenue and the expenditure in order to be able to finance measures that, unfortunately, are not enough today. I don't think there's going to be any news for anyone if I say that the salary in individual village councils is up to 85 percent of the total cost. So I agree with your observation, but what I'm saying is that the village councils both had the opportunity and have it today -- to increase their controls.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u24	Thank you, Catherine Alexander. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The Committee on Budgets, is there a need to report? Please, Valery Assadchev, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u25	Thank you. So it turns out that Catherine herself is an Alexanderic member of the Committee of Budgets, and in fact she's, in fact, speaking in two hypotheses. In principle, the Budget Committee has supported these bills and believes that it is possible to vote governmentally, and it is possible to vote "tire one". Only now is it not to be voted in general, but only in the first reading. I'd like to add, perhaps from myself, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that I propose, I would like Mrs. Catherine to agree, and the government has agreed to vote on these bills as a bill to amend the budget code as a separate chapter. Because then we're going to have the only whole document, and we're not going to have the legislation scattered again. In general, these legal relations today need to be settled. And I think these bills can be supported. I will vote in particular for Katerina Alexandrovna's bill. I think it's a little bit more detailed. But I think that if someone votes, if the government goes through, they can also be worked out on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u26	Thank you. It's Matthew from the committee. What? Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I'd like to give you some information, because this is really a bill of two committees. And the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government discussed the problem extensively. What's more, I want to inform you that this is an initiative of the urban, rural and rural councils and deputies themselves. We really need to depoliticize the ability of local authorities to have a fair budget. You know, if we don't adopt this law, we're still going to have the right today to demonstrate the usurpation of the district administration and even the district council in terms of a certain rural or rural budget. So the committee supported Bill 4006-1 and asked you to support it in the first reading. I think we can find a common language with the Ministry of Finance, because I'm also surprised at why there's such a contradiction today. The bill was born in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. And we're going to work on the second reading, and that's how we're going to take down every colosseum. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin our discussion. Please indicate the name of the national deputies who have been registered on the board, and for the time being, Catherine Fomenko has the replica. Turn on the microphone, please. I invite Vladimir Puzakov. Fomenko's microphone. Now, one minute, one line was there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm under the observation of National Deputy Assadchev Wallery Mikhailovich. Yes, we have considered at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets the possibility of incorporating these rules into the new Budget Code, which is currently being developed by its authorship. But what I'm saying is that it's going to take a lot of time to develop this document, which is very important. Yes, I want to give you an example, for example, when the Budget Code was developed over two years. [[The one that was adopted in 2001]] Local authorities do not have the capacity to wait that long. That is why I consider it necessary to adopt this bill, and we will continue to consider including its thesis and its provisions in Ukraine's new budget code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u30	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u31	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The aim of this draft law was to avoid numerous violations of the budgetary authority of local self-government of villages, villages and towns of district importance and to actually balance local budgets of local self-government. But on what account? After all, almost every local community of villages, villages, and towns of district importance is not financially viable due to the lack of industrial production. Because in the village and the village, one of the payers is a peasant. With the Soviet government, there was a wide-ranging socio-economic sphere, agricultural and industrial enterprises, then well-managed and regulated inter-budget relations at the village, village and district levels. What, though, is the arrangement for inter-budget relations at the district level today when the state has fully mastered the task of transferring everything to the local authorities? For example, the village of New Kirov district of Kirovgrad is financially ineffective. In Soviet times, one of the wage earners of the village budget was a printing plant that provided work for about four thousand villagers. The social sphere and housing fund were fully maintained. But with the arrival of sovereign owners, the factory was destroyed, and the social sphere in the villages was destroyed accordingly. The village council today, with its hand stretched out, stands at a crossroads. Therefore, I consider the following parameters to be taken into account in the distribution of inter-budgetary transfers: the financial standards of budgetary security, the number of inhabitants and the number of social service consumers of the relative taxation index, as well as the support of the bill and the inter-budgetary transfers, i.e. the grant of compensation from the city - district budget and the subsidy between the budget of the city, the village and the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u33	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs. Of course, I today, having read these bills, expected that Ukraine's Deputy Finance Minister would call off the government project as less prepared and previously introduced, and this would all be removed, and everything would be agreed, and everything would be normal all the more, that among the authors of the bill there are both members of the majority and a completely wise minority. I believe that Valérie Assadchev, who spoke today, is our colleague, is right that these relationships should be regulated, but they should only be regulated as part of the Ukrainian Budget Code. And that's perfectly understandable. And let's not go to the adoption of individual laws on a case, literally, every day, because that's how we can take laws on Monday, on Tuesday, on Wednesday, which is actually already offered to us by respectable government officials. And we're not going to apply legislation, we're going to be creating systematic, normal legislation. Which I like, and I'm going to suggest you accept the bill of MPs -- 4006-1, although they had a lot in common at first, but they also have differences. Of course, in the local government budget, it is proposed to provide for inter-budget transfers such as the grant of compensation from the district budget, funds transferred to the district budget, subsidies, subsidies for the maintenance of shared facilities, the disposal of the negative effects of the activities of shared objects, investment subsidies for the construction or reconstruction of shared facilities, and subsidies for the exercise of their own powers of the territorial communities, villages, towns, cities of district importance and their unifications, which are all set out in the law, is positive. The negative is that article 3, paragraph 4, determines that the conditions for granting subsidies as defined in section 2 of this article are determined by the relevant agreement of the parties, unless otherwise defined by budgetary legislation. The honourable drafters of the bill, the honourable Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Local Self-Government, what do you believe in a treaty strong with a weak one, do you believe such agreements are possible? Let's write out these rules once and for all, and it won't then affect either the relationship and some personality of some mayor of the city, or the mayor of a town or village, the head of a village. So I'm against that proposal, and I'm paying attention to that. Please accept only in the first reading and only project 4006-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u34	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u35	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski Jovkovsky district, Lvivščina, District 123, Viktor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine". I read a very nice phrase from a wise, very wise man at lunchtime today who said, "The conservator is too scared to get into a fight and too fat to escape." I feel like that's what our legislation is in terms of inter-budget relations. I have a very densely populated western district, where there are a lot of cities and towns that were once district centers that are now, let's say, self-sufficient in some of their domestic lives. This, for example, is Rava Ruska, and this is Novoyavorysk, which is very common in terms of their population composition, well, they're mostly there, let's say, the district centers. But this poverty of Ukraine today, which is very clearly reflected in the poverty of our lowest budgets, rural ones, is very and very obvious. That's why I want to say that, of course, I support that bill in every way. They, in my view, are almost parity: the government and Mrs. Catherine. But since Mrs. Catherine is very nice and, if I'm not mistaken, this is her first project, I certainly support her bill first. But I want to end by saying that we're going the wrong way over and over again. Instead of building something new, we support the old one, patch it up, and so forth. I'm absolutely convinced that -- and I think Assadchev, as a major budget specialist, will support me in this, -- after the presidential election, we have to take a very different path, and build a budget from below, then only the money that will be distributed in Kiev will go up to Kiev. This is, let's say, an army, diplomatic services, some strategic direction in science and all that. And more Kiev officials do nothing with the money. And let the rest of the money work on these inter-budget relations, from a small town, let's say, to a district center and Kiev. I'm sure it will, because what we're doing today is saving the situation, but it's just temporary measures. I thank you and I believe that you, my colleagues, will vote in favour of Mrs. Catherine's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u36	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u37	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear colleagues, you and I are now witnessing how the bourgeois authorities, their two branches: the one that makes up the majority today, and the bourgeoisie that prevails in this majority -- they're trying, somehow, under some bourgeois rules of the game to settle their relationship. This is the essence of this bill. So let's not talk about any general rules of the game. There's never been a general game rule and there never will be. And I want to remind you of those who know it, and who don't know it anymore because of their later education that at the beginning of the creation of Soviet power, the Bolsheviks had in one period called out, "All power to the council!"and then, when these councils came to those who had destroyed them and had entirely different intentions in relation to the working people, Lenin and the Bolsheviks argued 'Down these councils!".. So I want to tell you, here's the soul's cry I understand from below, when they're trying to settle these inter-budget relationships right now -- those that are now somehow surrounded by the majority and the power that is now. But let us also consider that time can change. Which today, in opposition, they have to be on a mountain somewhere, and those that in most cases may be in opposition. From this point of view, that's the key question. The ratio, the settlement of these budgetary relations, taking into account the interests of the center and the place. If we really have a unitary state, of course certain weights of influence and regulation should remain in that state. And this is separate, and this is highlighted by the bill introduced by the government. If we want to win 13,000 independent countries, then we have to support the MP's Bill 4006-1 and put almost all power entirely in place so that this central, seemingly infamous authority doesn't interfere with the local heads, the local dogs, the local dogs, to resolve their issues. So there's only one thing I want to tell you. Finally, we have to support these bills in the first reading with a view to writing out more clearly the interests of both the center and the place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u38	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! Today's discussion in the hall is somewhat confusing because there is only one question. Those who express their views today are, on a conditional basis, and I think, in a literal sense, to divide the words into those who work with local self-government, who work there, who understands what this is all about, and who just try to make it happen, I'm not afraid of that word, some political capital. To date, there are two bills. One of the bills, which was drafted by the deputies in this case, was not drafted by deputies sitting in a cabinet who did not know what life was like. Dear friends of mine! To date, the bill has been drafted by the Congress of Regional Authorities. There is a common Ukrainian public organization. Today, this has also been tested in agreement with the Ukrainian City Association. You, those who attended their conventions, who attended their meetings, know that the most important question for them is the budget issue. And, unfortunately, we are faced with two approaches: one approach in the MP's bill to make a formal distribution so that we have neither good nor bad, and all in the same conditions, and the other question: let's keep manual management, let's divide them into good or bad. Next moment. Deeply convinced that the bill suggested that the minimum budget level should be the same for all, that is indeed justice. Otherwise, someone will be sitting again, I don't know, at the field level or at Kiev level, and they'll be dividing again into good and bad, smart and beautiful, into theirs and strangers. Next moment. Factorial impact factors. My dears, who knows what local self-government is? The area in the city is one structure, but the area in the village is another. And if you put everyone under the same ridge, without a factor of factorial influence, it's going to be a proponent, because one needs less to survive, the other needs a lot more. Next and last thing I'd like to say. My well-respected previous speaker said that to date someone wanted to save someone. I will take full responsibility as a person who worked with both the Ukrainian City Association and the Congress of Regional Authorities, my dear, rural heads, a significant percentage of their communists, ask that we receive the budget, regardless of how we have shared it in the area, how the Rajgosad administration influences the topic. So is it not clear to me why we are going to bring this subject out? So again, out of the 689 budgets that are dividing today, or, more precisely, by this amount, by 12,000. budgets under the MP's bill may become a reality in their independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We need to make a decision now. May I have your attention, please? Yes, we need to make a decision. I'll put them to the vote in order to register the bills. The first is the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 4006 of the Ukrainian draft Law on the settlement of inter-budget relations at the level of districts, territorial communities, villages, villages, cities of regional importance and their unification. There's a vote on the ground. Please vote. [[16:48:19]] For-166 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the basis of draft law, registration number 4006-1, authors of national deputies Fomenko, Matviyenko, Jętjak, this is the draft Ukrainian Law on Inter-budget Relations between the District Budget and the Budgets of the Territorial Communities, Villages, Cities and Their Unions. Please vote. [[16:48:58]] For 388 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm moving on to the agenda and the decision-making process. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities. Please vote. [[16:49:37]] For 370. Decision taken. Let's get to it. The offer is made by honorary colleagues: 3 minutes for the report, analogous. 5 minutes for the main interview, three minutes for the answer to the question, for the co-report, for the answer to the question to the co-rapporteur three minutes for discussion and decision-making, the committee offers 5 minutes. Let's at least put 10 maybe. Is there no objection? Please, Peter Stepanovich Zybenko, prepare for the Overself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Your view is proposed by the joint efforts of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy of Ukraine, and by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, the State Committee on Veterans, Other Interested Ministries, and the Offices of the Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities. This is about providing a targeted monthly living allowance of up to 50 dollars. It's about the fact that first-group people with disabilities, regardless of the size of the pension they receive, and second- and third-group people with disabilities, are meant, within the minimum of living. I don't know, respectable colleagues, those of us who meet with voters and who for once in their lives looked into the eyes of a war veteran, I'm frankly ashamed to see the life that a war veteran lives today. So we initiated the development of the adoption of this document. I'd like to say that the cost of implementing this law will come from two budgets -- the State budget of Ukraine and the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. What is more, it is about introducing this law when it is enacted, implementing it not since January 2005, but since May 2004. And I'm going to ask you all very much. So, dear fellows, I will address everyone today. And to the left and to the right and to the red and to the white and to the majority and to the minority, to support this document, because there are some voters behind us, some people who are suffering from this situation. Moreover, I will ask the hall if the document is accepted on the basis of its acceptance today and in general. First, because the law is placed in five lines, five lines, first. Secondly, because the youngest disabled of the Great Homeland War today is 77-78, and in the courtyard of the 60th century, the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders. In addition, it is suggested that it be introduced on May 1, 2004. As I understand from my conversation with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers before going to the rostrum, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and other interested authorities are supporting this initiative for the adoption of this law. So I'd like a room to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the committee head? Yes. Please sign up. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u43	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Peter Stepanovich, please tell me, in general, what do you think this law, absolutely right you're saying, we need it, we socialists will necessarily vote for it, we've finally supported it on the Committee on National Security and Defence, but does it solve the problems at all, the problems of war veterans, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u44	Thank you for asking. The question is absolutely correct. I understand that this law does not, in principle, solve this problem -- it is a stage in solving the problem as such, and more so, it is my, the MP's bill to amend the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection, but the weight of this law, the financial costs of such that I understand that if it is adopted today in the hall, it will be exposed to the veto, and I would like it, and I think that you want it, that we get at least a bruise in the hand, rather than a crane in the sky. So the real thing is what we can do today. Let's do this -- we'll move on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u45	National MP Bronnikov, Vladimir Bronnikov, please, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u46	Peter Stepanović, the faction of the regions fully supports this law and will vote unanimously for it, but we would like to point out that you are offering financial assistance to persons with disabilities and that any financial assistance involves income tax. Are you the second step we're thinking of doing or not doing? As this is now a major moral problem for law-abiding persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u47	Thank you. Including thank you for, first of all, supporting, and second of all making those warnings. We will not only take the second step but also take the third step. To ensure, let's say, this money and the level of material support for disabled people so that things don't happen here, let's say, those that we don't want. But agree with me that we are obliged simply, especially in view of the age of the people with disabilities of the Great Homeland War, and for a year of 60 years of victory, we are obliged to move towards solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u48	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u49	Thank you. Peter Stepanovitch, with regard to your bill, clearly has a social aspect that no one here will be able to address, the disabled need help, and this is definitely, and he will certainly be supported in the hall. But I have two questions to ask you as the head of the profile committee. Please tell me, this is the practice of patching holes -- 50 bucks, 30 bucks. Well, first of all, it's not a solution, it's not a solution at all, it's a problem, it's a colleague of Bronnick's. Said another would be about a new law on income tax for natural persons. That's why I have this question for you: Since May 1, 2004, you've been planning, according to your law. It's, like, some single law, some one-time bill. How It Meets the Requirements of the Budget Process of 1 / 05 In 2004 You yourself have said about your fears and warnings about the veto possible by the Cabinet and the financial resources for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u50	Thank you. I'd answer your question next time. I answered your question to some extent, answering the question of Deputy Bulba, because it's about what there is, a bill registered today that solves the problem more systematically. And the point is that this law provides for the disability of the Great Homeland War of the first group of 400 percent of the minimum pension, the disability of the second group of 350, the disability of the third group of 200. But, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you understand very well that given the situation in which we are budgeted, it's just that bill, well, I'm pretty sure I can talk about the fact that it can't be implemented today. So let's take this step today, and let's take the next step through the law we're talking about a little bit earlier. And thank you for supporting this bill. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u51	Nosenko. All right, time's up. Thank you. Well, they called the Nosenka, the Communist faction. They'll be offended. Is there a Nosenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u52	Thank you. Nosenko, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to the Deputy Leschchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u53	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Peter Stepanovich, I ask you to clarify what categories of persons with disabilities fall within this law under the definition of persons with disabilities of war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u54	This law applies to all categories that have the status of a war invalid. It means there and that part that's in the Armed Forces, starting, first of all, with the participants in the fighting, the disabled of the Great Homeland War, that's all the categories of people with disabilities of war are predicted here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u55	Thank you. Please sit down, Peter Stepanovich. Basil Nadrag. Please, very briefly, Vasil Ivanovich I'm sorry, I'm
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, having considered Bill 5102, which proposes to improve the material situation of persons with disabilities of the Second World War, that is, to bring the pensions of this category of veterans to a minimum. Currently, there are some 200,000 disabled persons living in Ukraine, the youngest of them 77 years. The majority receive a pension less than the subsistence minimum. On the basis of this problem, the drafters propose to establish monthly social assistance of up to 50 bracelets as of 1 May of this year. The introduction of this law will require additional funding from the State budget. The minimum number is 24.5 million grevens; the pension fund budget is 35.4 million grevens. The adoption of this law would reduce the social protection of persons with disabilities to a certain extent. Based on the logic that we still have 60 years of victory in the Great Homeland War this year, the Committee supported the bill and proposes to adopt it as a whole. The only thing I would like to add to what the main rapporteur and the developer have already said. Unfortunately, not all legislative actors share the same position. The Ministry of Finance, with reference to the fact that this is contrary to the Budget Code, proposes not to support the bill. The scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill and to re-read it. Again, the reference is that there is a problem that we can face, and we can gain a veto because of the contradiction of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. And there is a decision, a formal appeal by the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, where it is proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u57	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine. Prepare Solomon. Ten minutes to discuss, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u58	Bronnikov 81 district, Zaporozhye, faction of regions. 60 years ago, our fathers and grandfathers with incredible deprivations and blood gave us the opportunity to sit, sit in this room, sit, decide the fates, development of Ukraine, human development, development of the economy. And of course, it is our duty to make at least now everything possible for them to enjoy the rest of their God - given days in peace and confidence. In that regard, I would like to draw attention to what, in taking the first step, we must also take the second step. The recovery economy, many private entrepreneurs, public enterprises, large and small enterprises are now ready to provide and provide material and financial assistance to war participants, war veterans and, of course, war disabled persons. But look, in our work on the bill, we have not created special conditions for this category of people. First. Businesses themselves pay taxes. Most importantly, people have to pay income tax from each product set, with each financial assistance, from each month in the prevention of an enterprise. Where are they gonna take that money? And notice, people aren't used to working in shadow systems, they're honest taxpayers. I therefore propose a bill to support this on first reading. And I would ask the committee to deliver it in the coming week, with all the supplements, so that war veterans, the people with disabilities, will be free to communicate with our tax administration, which works in a variety of ways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u59	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u60	The point of the bill is that I want to add only one or two comparisons to this. Today we have received a report from the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the 2003 State Budget. And in this report, as well as in the publications of the head of Valentin Simonck's Court of Auditors in today's newspaper "Day" it is said that it is a shadow of various unjustified benefits and compensations. The enterprise clan rotates about 50 billion dollars. And because they don't come properly to the government budget, the social program was actually down. What are 50 million dollars, nearly 60 dollars needed to implement this bill? That's only 1 percent of what belongs to the people today, but it doesn't go into the budget. So I'd like to make a second question. That's not the number, that's not the message. Of the 200,000 men with disabilities of war, as far as the first group is concerned, the second, the third. Can we spread these circles of action not only in the first group but also in the second group? Because the possibility is certain, although Minfin, as reported here from this rostrum, denies it. He's got a point. It seems that protecting disadvantaged populations for Minfin is more important than touching those called fat cats. So I would like to propose the following: this bill should certainly be adopted, not just in the first reading, but in general, that we say step by step, and those who love Euro-integration and the United States of America, in English, note step-by-step, move forward in this task. Let's assign Min to social policy, to work and to the Pension Fund, let them give us information about the second group, how much more money we need to look for in this State Budget, and then we'll work on another bill with you to support the fullness and disability of the second group. So I propose that we adopt this bill as a whole, so that we vote for it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u61	Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies, our venerable veterans, the disabled! What is suggested today? Today, it is proposed to adopt the law in one article, the truth of the second article, which states that the payment is made on the basis of the funds from which the pension is paid, from one article of the following content: “The Cabinet of Ministers, starting on May 1, provides for the payment of the targeted subsistence allowance: the disabled of the first group of 50 dollars of war, the disabled of the second and third group of war, up to 50 dollars per month of pension, the increase in supplementary pensions for the purpose of relief and the special merit of Ukraine, does not reach the subsistence minimum set for those who have lost their jobs. I read it to you on purpose so that those who are in the radio today will hear it. Why? Because voting in general for this bill is even going to be harmful. Because it's not defined here, I'm not talking about the populist name of the law, it's called "To improve the material status of people with disabilities of war," the law. You and I know, and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans has gained power, guaranteeing their social protection. Let's make changes to this law by this law, that's normal, that's logical. And then we're going to ask questions about the increase in monthly size, and I emphasize monthly pensions. And you have to base it, you have to look at it, and it's not 50 dollars, but in order for it to be 100 dollars, you just have to calculate it now. But it's about writing in article 1: First-group war invalids the size that we're going to define with you and what's to be justified, what's a "monthly" word that's written, not once some kind of tribute that they're going to offer to make now, then the second-, third-group war invalids. And then, honourable national MPs, if we move away from the order that is now, to make changes to the current Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection or to state social standards and state social guarantees, we will now have to adopt a law on improving the material status of war participants, children with disabilities, people with disabilities, it is all to do with separate laws. Clearly, this is impossible. So I'm going to suggest a way out: take the first reading, work it out, make it not just as a populist slogan that sounded somewhere at the rally, but with the requirements of standard-setting technology, taking into account our current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u63	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u64	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear veterans, who may now be listening to us, I understand your mood in the background of the morning session, where you have heard the fanfare, the relationship that life is beautiful is something that no more and nothing better can be. I understand how your old age, your wounds, your pains can be seen on the backdrop of this happy, beautiful life. Because of this, as legislators today, we are in a very difficult situation. Because I think it's impossible to find an MP who would go against this bill right now. I think everyone will say, "Let my hand dry so I can vote against it." But on the other hand, once again, on the back of this pump today we are folding, in fact, from the table of our government, our oligarchs are pitiful lids to those people who have actually passed the fronts of the Great Homeland War. And the second. I understand that a lot of people here might not like it, but we would have to be like a smart parliament that has been working for so many years in an independent state, solving the problem and the soldiers of the UPA, making them reconcile, eventually, and allowing these people to live to their own age. That would be very fair. All the normal nations have been through this a long time, and we have to get through this. I have a moral right to talk about it because I'm an Easterner because my father fought on the fronts of the Great Native War in the Red Army. But it has to be done, and I think we will. And last of all, why did I come up to this rostrum? I'm convinced that today, on the first, second reading, I didn't figure out where to get this money, although it's a funny 60 million. I think it's both Medvechuk and anyone could just take it out of one pocket and put it out for the veterans. But you realize that this must be calculated. I'm already watching as Mrs. Hot as she's ready, as it were, stand up for the unjust interests of the government today and say there's no money. I'm convinced that for these people, we have to help the government find money. Let us vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. It's really a small gift for these people. And the last. I still have a few minutes. I'm sure we need to change the policy of our own. Everything has to be expressed in money. You don't have to give any help to the light, to the apartment, you have to give all that money to the person, just like you do to the road. If he wants to go, let him go, he won't go, let him use that money for something else. I was interested, for example, in the American veterans of the Vietnam War, in them, in their pension, in all their benefits, in money and in money alone. I think it'll be very clever, but that's what we'll do after the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Yes, Peter Stepanovich Zibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, before the vote, literally a few words of vote. Well, first of all, I would like to thank all the MPs who supported the bill, because I see this as an effort to support, really, the disabled. This is the first time. Second, it's just a technical moment, for technical reasons, that the bill came out of the word "even months." It's about a monthly allowance, not a one-time one. And the third thing I wanted to ask was my respectable colleagues. I understand everyone's efforts to improve the norm, but I ask you very much that if we extend this pleasure to the second, third reading and so on, we might lose the law in general. I very much ask you to uphold the law in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the adoption of the bill as a basis, and then we'll look at it. May I have your attention, please? It is based on the draft Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of War Disability, registration number 5102. [[17:15:26]] For 391 Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, there was an offer from the committee to adopt the draft law as a whole as a law. Who is denied? Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u68	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Patrons of the Solidarity Party of Victor Yushchenk's constituency. Dear national deputies, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't understand where we're going. It's about how you can assign a committee literally in a week's time to prepare, but what I've noticed is that there's no word “annually” is a big difference, in a year or 50 bracelets goes, or 600 bracelets go in a year is a big difference, you know. With regard to the second part of “the disabled of the second and third groups of war in size”, there should also be written “monthly payments and payments”. Now this has to be aligned with the law that I've already mentioned, with the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, which is to lick it all out, you know, from a legal point of view. And how about we just, all the political forces for adopting this law, but we need it to be beautiful, so people don't laugh at us, you know, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u69	Zibenko's microphone, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention for a moment? I would ask my colleagues very much not only to listen to each other but also to listen to each other. Once again, I repeat to the stenographer that for technical reasons, the word “even months” is lost, and that's exactly what it's about, so it's a month-long living aid for the disabled of all categories. And one more thing. I don't want to suspect anyone of any other plans that are being made by trying to take a third reading, but I'm very afraid that we're going to lose the document. So I'm asking you to support the document in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u71	May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Matthew's microphone, please. Well, now, now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u72	I would like to ask the representatives of the southern regions that we are beginning the 60th anniversary of the liberation of southern Ukraine from German- Fascist invaders, to withdraw this objection against the adoption of this law on second reading and in general. Karmazin, you're simply not going to get your reps when you say you're a representative of the liberated Odessa if you're going to make that offer. Therefore, I propose that this law be adopted with an amendment, in addition to what Cibenko said, on second reading and in general now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u73	Suškević microphone, please. Then there's the hot guy, the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I know how much it helps to solve all the bills of colleague Carmazin, and I want to say that I don't suspect him of anything. But let's remember. In front of the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory, and there's a practice that we're not going to be able to do anything concrete for our people with disabilities. That's my request. Taking into account the proposal made by Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, add: "one month," and now vote on the law. Because we're really late, we're going to adopt the law in June, but you'll see if we're late. I ask you to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u75	Please, Hottie, Deputy Minister. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, the issue that the Supreme Council is considering today is relevant. Today, the Supreme Council has shown confidence in government. The government has always supported the efforts of the Supreme Council to improve the level of pension insurance. In this regard, we thank you very much for adopting the bill in the first reading. And it is your will, if you will sustain it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u77	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please. Dear colleagues, we will come to the right decision in a normal, logical way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". I thought my colleague Cibenko was thanking National Deputy Carmazin and the entire Communist faction for finding a way out of the situation. They decided to hang labels. I wouldn't ask you to do that, but consider this. You have to write it down, if you're counting my offer, then write it down. [[I repeat, my offer, not Zibenko.]] After the words "live" we write the word "monthly disabled of war 1 group of 50 bracelets" and we also write the word "monthly disabled of war 2 groups." And then in article 2, paragraph 2, we write, "the payment of the earmarked financial assistance is made on the basis of the funds from which the pension is paid: State Budget and Pension Fund." And then it'll all be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u79	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I put it to a vote with the word "annual." Sounds like it. Everything else is going to be a lot. Come on, it's clear by the cost of the pension. It is understandable how the pension is paid. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law as a whole as a law. Registration number 5102, it's about improving the material status of war invalids. Please vote. [[17:21:39]] For 372 The law is passed. The draft Ordinance on Hearing of Information by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine from Humanitarian Affairs and the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information for conducting checks by the executive authorities of the media that have led to obstacles to their activities is now under review. We need to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. But, fellow believers, it is now, if you take this decision, that has made no sense, for the draft decree was intended to hear this information today. I mean, there's no need for us today. We can't look at it. Please, the head of the Committee of Tomenko. Because people will not be able to prepare if we make a positive decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, there's a proposal from the committee next. There's been a discussion with the government and we understand that the Deputy Prime Minister doesn't have to deal with it, and today it's not realistic. But given that the key problem concerns illegal testing of the media, there is the position of the President of Ukraine as he expressed it. So there's a request from the committee to vote today, and it's in the weekly order, 4275 of the decree on the moratorium on the verification of the media. And the Supreme Council will make its contribution. And with regard to information from the government, let's set it another day when it's possible to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u81	Please, Alexander the Turkinov. And then let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! I agree with the head of the committee. In fact, listening to the Smoker today or tomorrow is an unnecessary problem. Rather, let us take a decision to regulate the activities of those who want to not only check but also to close up the media. I'm asking you very much to support Tomenko's offer. And our faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will vote in full for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! What do you think? There's a draft Order, it's included in the agenda of number 4275 of the Supreme Council on the provision of unhindered media activities in 2004. The President of Ukraine commissioned the appropriate authorities to do so. So if you have no objection to that question, then we don't have to go back to the debate, let's take this decision yes and all. Is there no objection? I am voting on the approval of the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the provision of unhindered media in 2004. [[Registration number 4275]] Please vote. [[17:24:40]] For 294 Decision taken. I'm asking you to tell only those national MPs. Dear National Deputies! I'd also like to draw your attention. The radio rox that broadcasts the Supreme Council doesn't work. So let us do it, even though we will respect ourselves and make at least one decision on our own. Decision taken. A draft Law on Equality of Rights for Women and Men is being announced for consideration. The question is relevant. Let's take a look. There we have four draft laws, the national MPs called off the bill number 2219. So we need to look at three draft laws on this issue. I invite the first Roman Zvaric report, then to prepare Fomenko Catherine and Long Valentina Ivanovni. Michael Alexanderovich Schulga will be the narrator. Very briefly, dear colleagues, since we have only half an hour to work. Let's do every reporter in three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u84	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, joined the Ukrainian RSR in 1981 in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which was approved at UN level on December 18, 79. Ukraine, as the successor of this Convention, has assumed certain obligations under this Convention. In particular, in the Convention itself, it is not about political things, it is about the right to work, the right to equal opportunities in employment, the right to free choice of profession, the right to education, and so forth. The bill, which was introduced by me and the late Jaroslava Stecko, who was Ukraine's national deputy in that vocation, practically foresees the possibility of carrying out what we have adopted in accordance with this international convention. I want to emphasize that in my bill I don't foresee any quota as the right of a woman or a man to be hired or, let's say, the right of a person to receive an education regardless of the sex. Moreover, my bill, unlike other bills or other bills that have been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, does not provide for a quota approach for the formation of state authorities. I deliberately did this, in addition to the fact that this question, of course, has community support, particularly on the part of a more active, well, element, let's say, women's representatives of the Ukrainian society. I deliberately did this because, at this point, I don't think Ukrainian society is ready for this approach. A lot in my bill, I admit, has a declarative character. But I'm also consciously raising the problem, because I think closing my eyes to the fact that there is no problem is a very wrong approach. As for the other bills that have been introduced, I see some positives in them, I don't want to go through all the bills, but most importantly, what I think we should do today. If you think my bill is wrong, even if the author is not. I'll understand that perfectly. If you think you need to vote on this issue according to the political configuration that has formed in this sessional room, and so you will be willing to support the government project, I can also support that approach. It's essential that we adopt on the first reading any draft so that we can at least begin to regulate this issue. None of those projects will solve this issue until the end. But I ask you very much to support, if not my bill, at least one of the other bills that has been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u85	Thank you. Any questions? Or we can. Well, please sign up, three minutes. Sign up. On the board. Lilia Grigorovitch, please. The first women just signed up, very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u86	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", People's Movement. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I want to thank you for your civilized European approach, which testifies to a democracy that is still breaking through in our country, because somehow when we talk about equality, we immediately think about those women who are in power, but we forget that when we talk about equality, we should also think about those women who have a cat on the street who are concrete or who are working hard jobs and so on. Yeah, well, here's my question. Please tell me, in which society will there be more equal opportunities in a democratic, civil or society where there is extremely little freedom of speech, democracy, or equal opportunities for men and women there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u87	Of course, your question is rhetorical and political. You're pushing me to some political lines. And of course, my answer is based on the very fact that I introduced such a bill. We would very much like to be able to live in a normal European democratic society, where regardless of gender differences, regardless of skin color, regardless of the language in which a person says that he can still enjoy fundamental democratic rights. My bill is trying to solve at least a small fraction of what it takes for us to be able to build such a society with you at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u88	Olga Hinzburg, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have such a question for you, dear Roman Mikhailovich. Are you saying, please, is the reason that we have to adopt such a law is not that bringing up our early childhood in school or at the level of the institution is causing this problem? Maybe it's not just the law that we can talk about, or maybe we should start somewhere like this? Do I understand that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u90	Mrs. Olu, I can only agree with you. There's a little bit of a stereotype that I would say if I read very interesting analytics that I think I've read very much over this time. Even in the games that children play among themselves, there are certain stereotypes that remain with them until the end of their days. Boys play games where they have a competitive principle, girls play games where they cook, stick sausages, and so forth. Of course, this is a matter that needs to be resolved at the level of our schools, but it seems to me that this is an area in which we should not, as legislators, make certain legislative arrangements. This is more likely to depend on the principles already laid down at the level of the formation of our education system, which will most likely depend on the breakdown of society. First of all, we need to realize that there is a problem. I'm primarily talking to men here, we have to be ready, courageous to say to ourselves that there's really a problem, and if we can say it to ourselves, then we can finally admit the things you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u91	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u92	Yury Karmazin, Party of Patrons of the Solidarity Party of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter. I am grateful for your introduction of the bill, but you may have seen that there was and is an alternative bill 4415 and there is a proportional representation of women and men so far to ensure equal electoral rights and opportunities for women and men. Do you think you should do it now? Will you support this idea? If you support, maybe it was better to remove that bill, support that bill, make changes and suggestions here, and put a dot on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u93	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, I want to say right now that I'm giving up the quota approach to solve this problem. I'm knowingly doing this because this is a country where I've lived for a long time, as you know, meaning the United States of America, where they've tried to solve problems with different minorities, including problems related to sexual discrimination, by what's called "reversive discrimination." Finally, the U.S. gave up such a principle, but they gave up after, in fact, a breakdown in society and no longer had to apply any quota on the right to work, on the right to education and so forth. Including the woman’s right to be elected to the representative authorities. But there was a break. It seems to me that we need to go through this psychological breakdown first, and my bill is designed to do so. But I say, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine thinks that this can be done first of all by the way proposed by the legislators of other bills, where this quota approach is just foreseen, I am also ready to support this approach. I want you to just realize that it can have some negative effects, because setting quotas in any case would be in legal terms, measure, that's some discrimination, but in the opposite direction. It's also, in my view, in terms of, let's say, naked jurisprudence, the wrong approach. So I gave up this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u94	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, please sit down. Katerina Fomenko. I ask the honourable colleagues very briefly, since we do not have enough time to consider this issue, we need to make further decisions on the outcome of the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Presidency. The bill I'm going out with today is 4415, signed by 20 deputies. I mean, that. There are only five of them. Give me a chance to speak. Thank you. I want to say that world experience proves the following. The level of development, the level of well-being of any country is defined and is proportionally dependent on how this country uses both male and female potential. And an example of this is the countries that, the most developed countries, have shown that women's resources, women's potential, are more involved. This has been the case at the level of the development of their countries. These are countries like Germany, like France, like Sweden, like Norway, this is Canada, this is Japan. I can name two more tens of countries that have voted on gender equality laws, and what's more, these laws work very, very actively in these countries. I mean, Ukraine didn't stay away from these issues either. And so far, Ukraine has signed virtually all agreements, international agreements also on gender equality, on equal rights between women and men. But at the 37th conference, held in New York in 2002, which stressed that Ukraine still has a lot of work to do today. The first is that today's legislation is not defined, so what is the concept of "discrimination." Second, concern was expressed that we now have only five percent in Parliament and only six percent in executive positions. There are still many comments and concerns that have been expressed internationally. That's why Ukraine, if it's already chosen the path of European integration, if it's already chosen to improve its legislation, process and legislation on world standards, we're proposing this bill today. It is different from those mentioned today and mentioned today that it defines as a necessary quota tool. I want to say and answer the questions that have been asked today. My dear colleagues, because Germany, because France, because Sweden -- they started this process because they introduced quotas into their electoral legislation, about the formation of electoral lists. And I want to say that today all parties, European parties that have social-democratic orientation, have brought democratic orientation to their statutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u96	Yeah, questions, respectable colleagues. Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u97	Thank you. I have a question that's so short and it's more conceptual or norm-tech. A school principal — a woman and a school principal — is a man. The Rector of the Institute is a woman and the Rector of the Institute is a man. What difference does it make? Who are the oppressors? Who's got what? The wages are the same. So I have a specific question about quotas in elections and admission to work. So if we're talking about equality of rights regardless of sex, I think these bills, don't you think you're all the authors that you're giving a "bear" service to women, showing them to some inhumans who need special laws to get them into artificially there, that they can't get into Parliament themselves. [[Like you, for example.]] Explain to me simply so I can tell the voters. What's the joke?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u98	Thank you for asking. I want to say the following, probably from the end of your question. Only 4.5 percent of Ukrainian parliamentarians are women. Of these, only nine are elected by the majority system. I mean, our representation of women in Parliament is equal to the representation of women in parliaments in the Pacific States, you know? [[I have these materials.]] Today, even Arab countries have higher quotas. And I want to say that I don't think there's any violation of any of the articles. Because that's the way countries have gone, which are now the first places of socio-political, economic development. And I think that Ukraine has to go this way to bring its own standard of living, its own state, at least to bring its population closer to that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u99	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u100	Dear reporter! I think most of this room, men, will vote for all four bills because there can be no situation when we're against the issues that you're raising. But, please tell me, this problem is being solved in some way really female. Instead of supporting the first draft of the Zvaric Bill, which was introduced two years ago, four different alternative projects were created, resulting in you creating a competitive situation of the Bills and considering a situation that neither of them will create the majority. Maybe we should have gone a little bit masculine and adopted the bill that was first introduced and improved during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u101	Thank you for asking. I want to say that in Ukraine, as a country of post-radian space, we are the first, our deputies themselves passed this bill in 1999. But it happened that they were not considered in the session hall. And I fully agree with you that we are in the process of working out the bills that have been tabled today, and we are all going to unite them. And the most important grain, the most important of every bill, we will unite and make one of the most perfect drafts. That's why I want to say it. I support all my colleagues today who have passed these bills, and I will ask you to support them as well. Duku
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u102	Thank you, Catherine Alexander. Time's up. Valentina Ivanovna Dozhenko, Minister for Family Affairs, Children and Youth Please, Valentina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank many deputies, and not only this call and the previous one, such as Kovalko, Ostas, Widow and Boiler, Billowol and Volkov, and the deputies from the group Homenko, Samojlik, Suprun, Carmazin and others for their efforts to regulate legislation in our State 24 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which says that in our country all are equal regardless of nationality, regardless of profession, regardless of gender. Secondly, the law that we are considering today, or all four laws that have been passed, are certainly in the realm of human rights. Moreover, this law, as I have already said, establishes a mechanism for the implementation of 24 articles of the Constitution. This law on the equal rights and opportunities of women and men has been developed within the framework of Ukraine's cooperation programme with the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. This is a concrete document for the implementation of the 185-nation world leaders, including the budget of Ukraine, the Millennium Declaration at the UN summit in 2000. The Heads of State then signed the Millennium Declaration, which consists of six main pillars to work on in order to improve the lives of people around the world. And in the third city, the issue is about promoting gender equality. Why does the world community define the question of achieving equality of rights and opportunities between women and men as one of the priorities? Because the world community thinks it's one of the few resources left to make progress in society. Mankind has gone through a great and very difficult path of development. And our predecessors lived in a world where the rights of one sex over another, called the matriarchate. You and I live in a world where there is a world called the Patriarchate and where the rights and possibilities of another article prevail. And then, and now, according to the international community, it's based. ends up, it's based on discriminatory principles. That's why it has been decided, and the world community has come to the idea that we can continue to develop only with harmonious relationships, only with equal rights and freedoms, only with equal opportunities and only when things are balanced in society and in the state. Our draft law went to the Council of Europe. We worked on it together, so to speak, until the last step with a group of national MPs she represented.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the minister? Yes. That's good. Please sign up. On the board, please. Three minutes. Malinovski National Deputy, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u105	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Dear Mrs. Reporter, please tell me, why do you think this is social inequality coming out of the electoral process, the women are little chosen, the men are much, and this is literally at all levels that on the district council that c.? What do you think is the problem here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u106	First of all, I want to say, refinement to do. As a result of last year’s elections, there are 50, 60, 70, and 80 percent of women in rural councils. The higher the level of authority, the more it goes. If I tell you that the latest data of the United Nations is that women of the world own only two percent of the wealth, I think you've come to understand. So 80 nations of the world have passed laws to ensure equal rights and opportunities between women and men in order to balance our potential, our intelligence, our knowledge of women and men, and at the lowest level of silage and at the highest level. And all of this, as in Sweden, will lead to a better policy of a more balanced, more social and stable one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u107	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u108	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Valentino Ivanovna, I have such a question for you. The first thing I want to say is that the project introduces a mechanism for implementing the constitutional guarantee of equality of rights and opportunities between men and women, and that's good. And such a bill should be adopted. But I have a question for you. How does this bill harmonize with the laws already passed? For example, we adopted in our first reading the Law on the Election of National Deputies on a Proportional Basis, the Education Act. How is it in line with these laws and other legislative instruments that have already been adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u109	Well, first of all, this basic law on ensuring equal rights and opportunities, it's really fundamental and in a system of social relations it is and will be, I'm sure you'll accept it, it'll be the main one. And coming out of it, as a primary law, will make appropriate changes to those laws that do not meet international standards, the Constitution and this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u110	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u111	Dear Valentino Ivanovno. Communist faction, 161 constituency. Even if this law is not passed, none of these laws, do you realize how concerned men were? They're so worried right now. I mean, we women can work at men's level and even better. We just have to do it twice as hard and better than they do it, so it's harder. I want to say that this law is going to be passed or not accepted, that we've already given our women, our friends are going to do it, prepare it, and we're confident that somehow you've given yourself confidence. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u112	Thank you. I want to complement only that the law, which provides for equality of rights and opportunities between women and men, will help improve the situation not only of women but also of men in all areas. If you are few in rural councils, you will be more likely to adopt the law. If, honorable men, you live, sadly, for ten, even twelve years less, it certainly causes concern for law makers and we need to work very seriously on men’s health measures. I want to reiterate that this is the basic law of society that wants to balance opportunities, intelligence, the life experience of women and men. You know, if the family has both a father and a mother and a normal responsible parent, the child grows well, so does the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u113	Yes. Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna, sit down, please. Mikola Alexandrovich Schulga is the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Taking advantage of what is already said to be many of the very problematic points in this area that we are talking about today. I'm just going to stop at a few that I need to pay attention to. Obviously, the problem is not that we don't have gender equality in our legislation, but it's a lot more complicated, it's our traditions, mentality and sociocultural phenomena, and you don't even outlaw these things. I'd like to join Roman Zvaric here to break some quota there. Sadly, this is a decade, or even a century, that is necessary to change this situation. Notice, what we have, we're talking more about the political sphere right now. The political sphere is first of all the elections. The electorate is 60 percent women, so women vote for men, and one law doesn't change that, it has to break the psychology of women themselves. And that's a lot more complicated. Second, and here I'm grateful to Valentina Ivanovna, which she's already focused on, it's not about raising the level of women's rights to men. Gender equality is equality between men and women. And we have these painful points that apply to men who relate to their lives: they live less than 10 years, only up to 30 years of men and women in comparison, and after 30 years, there is a sharp decline in the number of men. That's where the problem is, that's a gender problem. And that's why we can't bring this whole very complex problem down to who we're choosing and how we're going to get quotas. And last of all, I want to say that this problem is so multifaceted, it's so complex, it's so straightforward. I want to draw your attention. It's a magazine. conducted expert research in dozens of countries around the world, and it turns out in Pakistan that women are more in parliament and in other political institutions than in Ukraine. So the problem here is much more complicated. I think it's very good that we've drawn attention to it, but it has to be decided gradually and comprehensively. Our committee is proposing to vote in favour of the bill that our national MPs have submitted, but the government bill is very close to it, it's hardly different, so it's theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u115	I mean, the problem is that we have to save men, so I get it. Dear colleagues, we continue our work for 15 minutes to complete this consideration. Yes, please state on the table the name of the national MPs who signed up for the speech. 15 minutes for the show. Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, please. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable national MPs, our citizens of Ukraine, and especially Ukrainian citizens. I want to remind you that for the first time, on access, on equal access to government posts and on parliamentary opportunities, on opening up, on equal electoral rights and opportunities for women and men, was a statement by the Party of Defenders of India, and in 1999 it was even written down in the program of candidate to the Presidents of Ukraine. So today, not as late as 1999, time passed, five years ago, but in that time, I think everyone realized that we should do a mechanism to provide for equal, first and foremost, electoral rights and opportunities for women and men. I am one of the authors of that bill that was reported by the distinguished National MP, Fomenco. And what I'm saying is that today we can't go beyond quota levels. I would like to thank the National MP, Zvaric, for the tolerant approach he has taken in his bill. He predicts equality. But to equality, a proportional representation should be introduced to the full equality. So far, as a temporary special event -- we're writing straight -- not less than 30 percent of the same sex, and we're not writing which is either female or male. And since we do not write this, there is no discrimination. We're just saying that we want 50 times 50. But times 50 times 50, then not more than 31 and not more than 70. So this right over here is the balance. And I'd like to take all three of these bills into account: and the bill of government that Minister Longzhenko was justly talking about today, and the bill of the National MP Zvaric, and our bill, and all three bills, and there's only a discrepancy in the six articles, between the government and ours. And plus the cook's bill allows you to immediately amend specific codes: the Labour Code. If they say, "I'm only looking for a girl -- there -- with long legs," and today they say, "I'm not burdened with any harmful habits" and so on, it'll be a violation. And how do you react? But this is already and discrimination against men will be. And the provision of a code to others like this and the Code of Administrative Offences he proposes to amend and supplement the laws on the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. And I want to thank him for a complex, complex approach to this, and I've been doing it for years here. And so I'd ask all three of them, taking into account -- that kind of proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u117	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u118	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In Soviet times, equality of rights between men and women was enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. They were given equal opportunities in socio-political and cultural activities, in education, in profession, in work. But we are witnessing that modern - day women and men are slaves to the process of seeking to maintain the welfare of the family. Both men and women are in line for work, where most men are given work and women are waiting for work. And as a result, more women are unemployed. It hurts to talk, but it does. Our famous women, without finding shelter in their country, go to Israel, Italy, Spain, Greece and go to work in any condition. It's a 12-18-hour workday. The rights of migrant workers are violated at every turn. There are many cases where, after working long hours with the owner and not receiving a penny, the police come into the hands of the deportees. Our labour migrants live there in terrible conditions, and the authorities pretend that there is no harm in it, that those who do not want to work on their land go there. I'll read a piece of a letter from Malo's migrant woman. Kirovograd district. "For a year I've been living in a cardboard box in Italy, working in a terrible capitalist and owner of a huge factory. When I worked two jobs, I lost my strength, but I still have to work. And how I wish you would. To see your child, your mother, become a foot on your land. Why won't our country think of us? After all, we had both work and housing and family. What have they done with the country and the people today? How is it embarrassing for our President in front of his people?" Such letters come in many ways, each with pains, tears, and sorrows. And in a particularly difficult situation today, there are our women. I'm sure the black stripe of life will pass soon. And, as always, in the winter comes the spring, in the night, the time will come and your happiness will come, my dear women. And we, men, are going to do everything we can to get this time closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u119	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u120	Dear National Deputies! A venerable Presidium! I would like to express not only my opinion but also the view of the bloc. And I would like to say that of those proposed bills, I think it's worth supporting the first bill that really doesn't set up a quota system. Because for me, setting quotas is always a humiliation. And the quota went through countries that wanted by representative presence in the higher legislative bodies: parliaments or the Senate to ensure the protection of the rights of minorities, women and so forth. If you go this way, I don't think, in principle, that he'll be pleased with the women themselves. I'm not talking about women's activists who tried to get into Parliament at some point, but let's remember what percentage, regardless of administrative support, this movement got. It was called, you remember, "Women of Ukraine for Leonidas Kuchma." This was a serious step, and then we got no less serious results. It was the best sociological survey of how women viewed the process. So I would like to point out that the artificial increase in the presence of Parliament, this is, in principle, not the approach, that there should be more women politicians in Parliament, not more people on the list to make this list legal. This is not the right approach. Next. And let's imagine there's going to be a bill that they proposed on the major election system. What, then, can we do? What if we only have major districts? You can, of course, create a couple of women's districts where only women can vote. Or how? I don't know how to get out of this situation. Or if there's a mixed system left? So what do we do with the district representation? I think that's a premeditated problem. Eventually, the quota, but to support the bill that was proposed for that. In order to be balanced according to the 24th century of the Constitution, it is worth supporting Roman Zvaric's bill. Indeed, for two years he had gone to Parliament; indeed two years he had not been examined. I suggest you look at it and support it. Well, that's the end of it. I'm afraid if we go this way of quotaing, we may still be insulted by different minorities, such as sexual, national. What can you do? I think everyone has equal rights, which are prescribed by 24 articles of the Constitution. So this equality of rights should not be, I completely agree with previous speaking, reverse discrimination, because it is not worth going to reverse discrimination in our discriminated society anyway. Of course, we have to stress that women's rights are being denied, and a very large number of women are now outside the state, in Italy, Spain, Portugal. And they went out there and they wouldn't come back here even if they took 20, 30 or 50 percent. They will return to Ukraine when power changes in Ukraine, when those who will defend the rights of all come to power in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u121	Yes, Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, voters! Of the four drafts of the law under consideration, the most suitable for processing is the MP. Nor can he be considered perfect. Let's start with the name. Obviously, the possibilities are not at all physical, psychological, but obviously social. Secondly, many provisions of the law are of a declarative nature. How exactly in the face of a systemic crisis can women’s and men’s rights and abilities be ensured? By what means and by whom? How can women and all workers be returned to their millions and billions of national values? The answers to these and many other practical questions in the bills under consideration are in vain. Third. The draft laws unwarrantedly ignore the positive domestic experience, not start from scratch. Until recently, in Soviet times, few knew about gender policy, but opportunities for women’s display and realization continued to grow. By the way, Ukraine ratified the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination of Women in 1981. Next. It is impossible to accept that article 8 of the Government Bill refers to ensuring equality of rights between women and men in the work of mainly employers of state-owned property. What about private ones? Because today, they take people into their jobs, they release them often for no reason, they set their wages without any justification, they eliminate the unions, they do other things that are self-involved with people who are hired. Moreover, today we have many unresolved problems not only among the female but also among the male society, as marked by Valentina Ivanovna. All today suffer equally from injustice, humiliation, poverty, and powerlessness. In recent years, there has been a tendency to increase male unemployment, especially in Zakartat. The length of life of men in Ukraine is 11 years less than that of women and is one of the lowest in the world. 40 percent of boys today, 16 years old, have no chance of retirement. In 30 percent of reproductive age, health problems make them incapable of becoming parents. This data requires immediate, concrete and effective action, which is exactly what the bill needs to serve. So to harmonize the possibilities of both articles requires both legal principles and political will and concrete action by the authorities. There are no fundamental differences between government and parliamentary bills. They should be further worked out by considering the discussions and by considering what is involved in the MPs. Let the warm, beautiful, good words speak to women not only on the day before and on the occasion of the eighth of March but also on the basis of real works to improve their humiliating, shameful situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u123	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, I have the impression that the love of men for women ends where the electoral quota on the party list begins. I wanted to say that there is one solution to the problem of women's full representation in Ukrainian politics. And this isn't about the general declarations that we're talking about here, it's only about election rights. We have a situation today where you're familiar with party lists or election block lists. One day they'll write a story about it, they'll describe how it all happened. But in order for such things not to continue, it is very hard, as in many European countries, to regulate this procedure of internal party democracy. One such point is, of course, the representation of women. We can debate, say, what should we start with in Ukraine? Or 20 percent, that is, as I suggested in the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies, where one woman must be in each five, or, say, 30 percent, as we are offered here in other bills. General approach: You have to start doing this. I don't understand the argument that it's some kind of non-civilization. No, I'm sorry, but Sweden and Germany were either uncivilized when it came to one woman, one man, 50 percent. In some parts of Sweden, it's about a woman going first, and then a man in this 50 percent relationship. So when we ask about the representation of women in not only parliament, in local self-government, we once again raise the problem of intra-party democracy. For days we will vote on the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies. I have a question, and we've been thinking about how we're going to represent, let's say, regions. And that's why I've been talking about, clearly, in today's conditions, that at least 50 percent of the party list should be people or recommended by regional party organizations or by the representation of regions. The same is true of the parliamentary authorities, which we respect and love, but as one of my acquaintances says, "Well, you can't live forever in Parliament." I mean, obviously, some procedure for updating is not necessarily the option that I was talking about -- not more than two consecutive terms in Parliament, but we've extended this mandate to the President; he's not more than two terms in office of the President. Why does it not extend to parliamentarians? So again, I think we need to stop the discussion where we respect and love women, and just take the first step by making changes to the election of the national deputies, where to predict, or as I suggest, let's say, 20 percent, or as proposed in the laws 30 percent for women in party lists of contestants. It will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u125	Yeah. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We need to make a decision now. For reasons, please, Rudzkowski. Not all at once, dear colleagues. Sign up for three minutes on the basis of the vote. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u126	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. If we, Ukraine, want to be a European state, we must be guided by European values. The Council of Europe insists that there should always be a woman in the Ukrainian delegation, so that the percentage of women in Parliament will increase. And from the initiative of socialists, supported by the leaders of the factions of all, except for the Yulia Block Timoshenko, there are 20 percent in the Elections Act of women's ability to represent in Parliament. I think that's the initial compromise that we should stop at and then move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a few minutes left, the system will be shut down. Domanski, Rodionov, 20 seconds, please. Domansky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u128	Vladimir Mikhailovich, respected, dear friends! I don't want to eat our women, but I think it's a thought-out question. Let's think about what a woman in our country is meant for. I understand how much we have in Parliament today. Vladimir Mikhailovich. [[Laughter]] Wait, you're laughing. Tell us how many women we have, how many women we have. have children in two years? Who will give birth to Ukrainians, who will bring forth our boys, girls? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go to Parliament! Let us decide at home that they will be happy, loved, and in love.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u129	Thank you. Mikhailo Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u130	Rodionov, the Communist faction. The Communists will support the Committee's proposal, but for the sake of truth, I would like to draw attention to it. Surprisingly, the reports of all speakers did not address the root cause. The root cause of inequality between men and women was the capital work of Engelsa, “The Origin of Family and Private Property”. This was decided for the first time by the Soviet Authority in 1918, not by the countries of Europe referred to today. Therefore, no one will guarantee true equality. Only in socialism.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the discussion of the procedure. Well, time is up, well, please, we can't vote now. It's over, three minutes. Well, from the procedure, please, the Turks. Just from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, I think our women would thank us if we passed a law that would raise them, for example, a paid vacation or a salary. For that, I would really like to thank you. And for the fact that we want to budget women, it's the humiliation of women, and I'm asking you to take that into account when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, as appropriate. Shufrich, Shufrich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, of course, we discussed a very important question. Yet, we still need to determine which part of the list will be our beloved women. Let's initiate them to be somewhere in front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-16-m1.u135	Dear national deputies, according to order. Well, I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come at the right time. Yes, at the end of the day come and speak to all. I am voting on the coming of the bills under discussion. The first is the bill of Law No. 2219, introduced by National MP Roman Zvaric: "To ensure equality of rights between women and men", based on. [[6:17:02]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The next bill, number 2219-1, but the subjects of the legislative initiative of the national deputies Volkov, Billowol, withdrew their bill — that is, there is no need to vote. Next bill. May I have your attention, please? Well, let's vote! Calm down, please! I understand that there was a productive meal, my esteemed colleagues, but let's get this over with. I'm betting on the next bill, number 4415, introduced by the National Deputies Group -- Fomenco, Bilozore and others. This is a draft law on equal rights and opportunities for women and men. I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis. Please vote. [[18:18:02]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on a bill by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. [[Registration number 4415]] I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis. Please vote. We need to adopt a bill. [[18:18:39]] For 169 Calm down. I will now put to the vote the first reading in the order of the coming projects. Let's finish the question. I'm putting to the vote draft law number 2219 of the People's Deputies of Zvaric for the purpose of re-reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:19:18]] For-152. The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a bill to ensure women's equal rights and opportunities. Authors Fomenko, Bilozoraz, Suprun, Semenyuk, Katusheva, Nadraga, Kirichenko, Proskuratova, Samojlik, Grigorovich, Budagyanz, Bahtiev, Harmash, Karmazin, Kirilov, Tereshuk, School, Drachevsky, Markusz for rereading. Please vote. [[18:19:59]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote the draft Law on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men for Reiteration of First Reading. Please vote. [[18:20:29]] For 175 Bills are rejected. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
