ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow believers. Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:00]] Registered -427 There were 427 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. You, dear colleagues, know that today is our Thursday, the most productive and stressful day. You've been familiar with the order of the day. You can see that we need to solve a lot of questions. Therefore, I ask that they be resolved expeditiously. Before we do that, before we begin to implement our agenda today, let me make an announcement. National Deputy of Ukraine, Omelchenko Alexander Aleksandrovich “Please announce the suspension of my stay in the "Our Ukraine" faction of February 5, 2004. My decision is due to the faction "Our Ukraine" being adopted by the national deputy of the Ukraine of Chernovetsk, whose moral and human qualities contradict my life's views." The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings "On the Summary of the 2003 Year of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the provision of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities" is being announced. These readings are scheduled to take place in March 2003. Is there a need to report? Vote? Please support the draft decision. [[10:04:08]] For 257 Decision taken. The draft decree on holding parliamentary hearings "Oncological Diseases in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Problems and ways to overcome." It is also planned to be done in March. Registration number 4392. Is there a need to report? You don't? Then I ask you to determine with this determination. Vote. [[10:04:54]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Please explain the factions. "Our Ukraine" is 77, "Regions" is 10, communists are 53, "Trug Ukraine" is 1, "Social Democrats" is 0, "People's Government" is 3, "Socialists" is 4, "Timoshenko Block 14", "Deminiciates", "Agrarian Party" and "People's Choice" are all in zero, "NDP 6" are non-fractional 7. That's how. Mikola Efremovich, please, Polishchuk, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the annual oncological disease in Ukraine is more than 150,000. Oncology now ranks second among the deaths of the population in Ukraine. The problem of oncology is not solved in Ukraine today. There are undecided priorities in this direction. I very much ask that you support the holding of parliamentary hearings on "Oncological Diseases to Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Part of the national MPs insists on voting. Once again, I'll put it to the vote and ask for your attention. The draft resolution on parliamentary hearings "Oncological Diseases in Ukraine -- Problems and Ways of Overcoming" is on the vote. Like the previous project, this is planned in March. Registration number 4392. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:07:12]] For 245 Decision taken. But, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to be careful that we do not violate the Rules and vote. The draft decree on parliamentary hearings on judicial and legal reform in Ukraine is announced for consideration. This is planned for April 2004. Registration number 4233. Is there a need to hear a report from the committee? Nobody insists? Then I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. [[10:08:00]] For 172 Factions please: "Our Ukraine" -84; "Regions of Ukraine" -5; Communists -57; "Trudova Ukraine" -0; "Social Democrats" -4; "The People's Government" -0; "Socialists -9; Yulia Block Timoshenko -2; Deminiciative -0; Agrarian Party -1; "National Choice" -0; NDP -3; Postfraction -7. The decision is not taken. The draft decree on parliamentary hearings "Traumatism -- the main cause of death and disability of the working population of Ukraine -- is being announced for consideration. It's scheduled for May 2004. Registration number 4391. Please, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u4	Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! As you know, we had a government day with you. The first cause of death among the population of Ukraine is cardiovascular disease, the second is oncology, and third is trauma. And among the working population of young middle - aged people, trauma comes first. It is also a quality of roads, it is also a quality of transportation and many other problems that are involved today, including legal ones. I very much ask that we hold such parliamentary hearings, focus on this issue, and at the same time decide how to deal with this problem. Today, between eight and 10,000 people, young people, die each year in traffic accidents in Ukraine. Please support the holding of such parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u5	Out of procedure, please, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u6	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to ask you: Which of the deputies of the Supreme Council Head is responsible for the issue of the humanitarian sphere, such as the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood? You know, we're going down to the campaign. We have more than 5,000 diseases. Each disease will be discussed at parliamentary hearings. Why would you do that? So the committee head can come out one more time? Should we find a systematic, comprehensive approach to health care? This is primitiveism. You're making this decision about voting, and it's embarrassing, because we're all worried about our electorate, about the sick, about the oncological, about the injured, but that's not how this problem is solved, as the committee head suggests. Therefore, our faction does not come across such a simplified approach, nor will it vote in favour of holding parliamentary hearings from each individual disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u7	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. But your remark does not have a legal basis, primarily a constitutional one. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, every national MP has the right to legislative initiative. In accordance with this Constitution, it is the will of each national MP to determine his or her position by personal vote. That's why the vote -- please specify -- is based on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order: "Traumatism as the main cause of mortality and disability of the working population of Ukraine", registration number 4391. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:12:10]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "Regions" - 3, Communists - 59, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, "Social Democratic Party" - 1, "National Government - 0, "Socialists" - 14, "Timoshenko - 18, "Deminitiates - 1, "Agrarian Party" and "National Choice" - none, "NDP - 1, "No" - 5. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, we are now forming the days of the government and the parliamentary hearings for this session, but the draft decree to hold Government Day 5046 in March on the state and progress of pension reform is not included, and we are about to kill the days of the government, such an important issue that has affected 15 million pensioners -- a pension reform that has turned into a pension abuse, may not come up for consideration in Parliament. I ask you to put to the vote the government's Day of Retirement in March. This is project number 5046.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u9	He's not in the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u10	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u11	Are you all right? He's not in the daytime. There is a draft Government Day Decision in May 2004 on the formation of a system of taxation and support for agricultural production in Ukraine. [[Registration number 4307]] Please,letter from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! In principle, without objecting to the consideration of these issues on Government Day, I should point out that part 2 of paragraph 1 of the regulation provides for control to consider how the government has been preparing for harvesting last year. In the meantime, we need to think about this year. The Ukrainian People's Deputies' Group introduced a draft Government Day Decision in March No. 5071, "To comply with legislation in preparation for spring-field work and harvesting." So I think we need to look at these issues in the complex and accept the first 5071. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! I'm reminding you again of what we talked about yesterday. We will be clear about the rules and requirements of the Rules. We will consider and ask only questions that have passed the whole procedure. No questions that will be raised without the Conciliation Board in the session room, we will not vote. We don't discuss issues, we don't vote today, we don't talk. The draft Government Day Resolution of May 2004 on the formation of a system of taxation and support for agricultural producers in Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4307]] Please vote. [[10:16:05]] For 203 The decision is not taken. For the reasons of the vote, Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u14	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues! I'm talking to the majority. We have a very difficult situation in agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, we didn't support the government's day. I'm not suggesting it's not May, because it might be too late. Today, 80 percent of rural farms, farms will not be able to start spring-field jobs. Adam Ivanovich, I understand that there is a violation of the Rules or will be. I am proposing to re-vote, but in some way, perhaps in the March months, I am asking you to listen and take immediate action on the situation in the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u15	Yes, dear fellows, I would like to stress once again that today is not our day of discussion. I only give the word to the reporter. Yukhnovsky Oleg, please. Then please, Tomich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u16	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the issues that are scheduled to be raised on the government's day of implementation of the Supreme Council's decree of September 18, 2003. Dear colleagues, this decree provided for a number of measures to overcome the grain crisis, including the provision of food security for the State. It would be appropriate to listen to how, how effectively, the government has carried out these measures. Next question. What's going on in the APC tax system? This is confirmed by the colossals around the income of the natural persons for the peasants, the compensation to the exporters of the first and 24 groups. These issues would also be useful for us to consider in the Supreme Council so that next year's budget will not arise on a stable legislative basis. So I ask you to support the stated determination to discuss these issues in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I have only one regulatory way left. I will now put to the vote the proposal of the people's deputies to vote on this draft decree. So I'm voting on the proposal: who's in favour of re-voting the draft Government Day in May 2004 on the formation of a system of taxation and support for agricultural producers in Ukraine, registration number 4307, please specify. [[10:19:24]] For 226 "For" - 226. So you and I have come to an agreement that we will once again vote on this decision. So I'm voting on the draft Government Day in May 2004 for the formation of a system of taxation and support for the agricultural producer in Ukraine, registration number 4307. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:03]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 56, "Regions" - 5, Communists - 59, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, Social Democrats - 31, "The People's Government" - 8, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16, "Deminicatives" - 0, Agrarian Party - 16, "National Choice" - 1, NDP - 0, non-fractional - 4. The draft decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the verification of the legality and violation of the construction of the Trade and Service Centre of the "Department" in the area of the Rossosin Rural Council of the Hmelnick district of the Hmelnick district is pending. Reported by the national deputy of Tajnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, since June last year, on the unspoiled lands of Proskurov agro-firm near the farm, near the Hmelnice Airport, absolutely no change in the target destination of the land, no ecological expertise, no approval of the construction project, without construction of clean-up facilities, a shopping centre called "Department" is being built, funded by several foreign banks. The proper construction of this center has been initiated by a violation of legislation. There is no project-based documentation and conclusions of comprehensive expertise. Because of this, there's a huge social and political tension in the region. In connection with the construction of this shopping center, constant rallies, demonstrations in the Hmelnicki district, representatives of the Hmelnicki district came here repeatedly under the walls of the Supreme Council. On January 27, this year, the district attorney’s first deputy was protested for building permits. By this protest today, the illegal act has been suspended. The members of the Hmělnice City Council have received an appropriate address to the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister and the Henprocuror, in which the position has been expressed regarding the non-building of this shopping centre. Repeatedly, requests to the Attorney General of Ukraine were made by the Ukrainian national deputies. Our Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption referred to this as a matter of security and the Henprocuratorship. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations also carried out a review of the enforcement of legislation on land leases for the construction of the sub-division shopping centre. He established that the land areas of the Company Commandos were leased with gross violations of valid land legislation. In similar conflict situations, the decision - making criterion must be clear compliance with Ukraine’s legislation. In view of the enormous social tension surrounding this issue, there is a huge resonance around this issue, first of all, the idea came from the Hmělnice deputies, who, by the way, are practically all the factions represented in the Supreme Council, to create a temporary commission of inquiry for the verification of the legality and violation of the construction of the "Department" shopping centre in the area of the Rosshan Rural Council of the Hmelnicke District, Hmeljni district. This issue was addressed by the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. The point of the question was supported and it was the only suggestion -- to expand the composition of the interim commission of inquiry, which was done. So to avoid conflict, to halt the very difficult situation that arose in the region, there is a proposal to support this decision and to create a temporary commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please. There's no need for a committee. Is it? Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u20	Boris Bespalij, Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. The committee considered the proposed decision at its meeting on 26 November and the Committee's recommendation, and the committee's position was as follows: First point. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft decision to establish a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the legality and violation of the construction of the Trade and Service Centre of the Division. Second item. To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that members and factions who are not represented in the personal composition of the commission should be invited by one member from each registered parliamentary group. This wish, as far as I know, was made because a draft decision had been made in exchange for what the reporter was talking about. And there's another change that I'd like to read for the transcript. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a part of the sixth ruling and make the following recommendations: to invite the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to consider the issue of compliance with and the correct application of the laws by the executive authorities, the authorities of the State and Economic Authority, the local councils, their executive bodies when agreeing on and the establishment of the construction of the Trade and Service Centre "Division" in the territory of the Rososzinski Agricultural Council of the Hmelnicki district, Hmeljni district. Take appropriate steps to remove violations of the law and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine on these issues. And that's all that's relevant to the committee's decision regarding the ruling that the national deputy Tegnibok has now reported. At the same time, according to the Rules, a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the decree was issued by national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. According to the Rules, the draft should be voted on first if it is not withdrawn. Yesterday, the committee considered a draft decision on the inadmissibility of the people's deputies, Karmazin, and decided to reject it, not to support it, because the inadmissibility was voted on by formal signs rather than on matters of relevance. And the argument that was cited in Yuri Anatoliyovich's ruling that there is no financial and economic justification for the creation of a commission is not legal in this case, because temporary investigators of special commissions are established within the framework of the Supreme Council, within the framework of the budget, budget assignments for the Supreme Council. And it's only the internal resources of the Supreme Council that ensure the work of those bodies that are created by the Supreme Council. So in this case, in the opinion of our committee, there was no need for such justification. Well, as deputies, that would be the question of their position and the question of relevance. Thank you, the report's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Have a seat, please. Honorable colleagues, however they may be, will be the first to make the decision to be unacceptable. But in connection. But I'd like to ask, and I'm paying attention to the people's deputies: in connection with us being with you. Not you and I, and some have made changes to the Rules in 2000, if, earlier, 150 people's voters were enough to consider the decree or the law unacceptable, we need 226 votes to be acceptable, and we need 226 votes to be unacceptable. That's why I'm talking to the People's Deputies: the acts of inadmissibility now, sorry, are not working. Let's not waste time, paper, energy, because we still need 226 votes. So I'm just like that, for information. Please, Carmazin, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". I wanted to point out first of all that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the other law enforcement agencies, our branch committees that were supposed to deal with this issue, did not resolve this issue. And given that they didn't solve those questions, I wanted to raise that question so that you could understand that you have to do their functions right. In general, I agree that this draft should not be put to the vote today, and I am revoking Bill 4272. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have thus settled the situation that we will not make the decision to be unacceptable. The draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the verification of the legality and violation of the construction of the sub-division shopping centre, registration number 4272, is therefore put to the vote. Please vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, be careful. Karmazin, a national MP who had made a draft decision on the inadmissibility, had withdrawn it. And we're only going to be putting together one draft decision: support or non-support. So one more time. From the procedure? For reasons of vote, I can give them. Please, Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u24	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to remind you that the 89th article of the Constitution clearly states what the Supreme Council is supposed to do with the temporary commission of inquiry. And I quote, "The Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purpose of investigating issues of social interest creates temporary commissions of inquiry if voted for. And so on and so forth. What social interest is the investigator on this committee today? And we have a question, Adam Ivanovich. The committee is open to debate and we have tabled a committee, and our committee bill should have been on the agenda to resolve the work of the interim follow-up commissions. Dear colleagues, today 29 temporary follow-up commissions, no one is reporting, no money is spent. Let us again consider whether we should spend public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u25	Thank you. For reasons of vote, Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the deputies of the faction of our Ukraine. I want to ask you, and I want one of the leaders of your faction to inform the people's deputies of what decision the faction "our Ukraine" has made, because one of the people's deputies is making a decision. and another makes a decree of inadmissibility so that it is understood. In order to get a sense of how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u27	Thank you. I've already asked you to identify yourself, all the more so that I spoke with the National Deputy Carmazin and put my position on the line. I'm voting on a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the legality and violation of the construction of the Trade and Service Centre of the Division. [[Registration number 4272]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:32:58]] For 190 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before we come to the next question, another announcement. "The head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, the head of the faction "Our Ukraine" Yushchenk, the head of the MP group "Solidarity" Prashenko. I declare my membership suspended in the "Our Ukraine" faction of February 4, 2004. National MP Artemenko. Election District 77." Dear colleagues! The next one is on the agenda for today's 4306 bill, but also the initiator of the national deputy Gabrieluk, and the profile committee came up with a proposal to remove the issue. Is there no objection? It's coming off. The question is: the draft Decision on the Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on democratic civilian control over the military organization and the law enforcement authorities of the State. The chairman of the committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, will report, please. [[Registration number 4345]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We have adopted a very important law on democratic civilian control over the military organization and the law enforcement agencies of the state. The need for democratic control over this sphere is undisputed. We all understand how important this is, but I must be honest with you that after the adoption of the law, there has been no significant disturbance in this matter. Life shows that it is necessary to specialize in this work for a while on the part of the Supreme Council, so the heads of the three committees: Kruczkov, Moysik, and Stratovic are proposing to create a special commission to directly undertake such a lively work organization to implement this control. For your consideration, there is a decision to create such a commission and a draft position for the commission. What do I have to say? It's about creating a commission to be led by representatives of three of these committees: national security and defence, law enforcement, and the fight against organized crime. The committees would be composed of representatives of all factions and parliamentary groups following their recommendations to remain, members of the committee, members of the committees to which they are based. This proposal raised a number of questions. Well, first of all, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin made a draft decree rejecting this bill as unacceptable. Unacceptable. The objection is that it is proposed to create a special commission, and under the Constitution we create temporary commissions. There will be no objection if we call it the Temporary Commission, which means that it will act on this Supreme Council's term of office. Although we have created, as the Special Committee on Privatization knows, we have not called it Temporary and I think we have not violated the spirit and essence of our Constitution. And one more observation, right. The position suggested that the reports of the heads of ministries and other executive authorities be heard, perhaps more accurately, by the message being heard. Taking these suggestions into account, we ask that we accept this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u29	Any questions? Please sign in. Yes, please come in. Three minutes Kirilchuk behind him Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u30	Your Honor, tell me, it's not going to be that members of this committee, they're going to be one of the same authorities they're going to have to control. So it's not self-control or just a view of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u31	I'll answer that question like that. That we do not expect factions to recommend national MPs for business considerations so that they actually exercise real control. It depends on us and, above all, the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, Gabrieluk, follow him, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u33	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please give the floor to my colleague Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u34	Please, Zarubinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear George Korniyovich, I have no doubt that the heads of the committees and yours and the other two committees are serious professionals and those people who would really like to control the implementation of the civilian, we will say, democratic civil control. But this is actually the call and the competence and your committee and the committee of your distinguished colleagues. Please tell me why this question has now arisen, to revive this very work of civilian control. The adoption of the relevant law places appropriate authority and authority on your committee, which also includes representatives of different factions, on the Committee of Legislative Security, the fight against corruption, and so forth. Is there not an additional structure that, by the way, can be used by three committees, permanent committees, or committees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u36	Dear colleague Yuri, the logic in your words is great. But the point is that life has shown that without specialization in this particular area of work for some time, attention and attention from the Supreme Council is very bad. I have to be honest with you that there was no movement. We are now entering a very large phase in the implementation of large-scale efforts to reform the Armed Forces. This raises many questions, including the legislative plan on which the committee is focused. This is true of other committees. That's why we think that creating a commission like this from different committees will help to activate this work. Because I repeat, we have not experienced any disturbances in this area of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u37	Please, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear George Korniyovich, I really share this issue of strengthening democratic civilian control over these institutions, all the more so that they are now at the reform stage. I really believe that both the Supreme Council committees and the Supreme Council themselves have constitutional powers in this regard. Do you think you need to create a permanent body in the future with the development of a certain legislative act? Or by amending existing laws to make this body more influential, more legitimate, and it would really have not temporary powers, but at the stage of reforming these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u39	We have to act within the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. We find it inappropriate to create a permanent special organ. We have to do it at the time of the Supreme Council's mandate, and those powers that are proposed to be secured by positions are sufficient for our colleagues on this committee to work fairly effectively and to move the democratic civilian control of the force field.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u40	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, Oleg Zarubinsky has in principle made a fair observation that there is a committee of profile, and we are still creating a commission. But I remind the Honorable College of Zarubinsky that there is a committee of Euro-integration, and we, at your suggestion, have also created a special temporary commission to maintain Euro-integration issues, which commission, if I'm not mistaken, is not it? Too much? Okay. Right. Please, there is a decree of inadmissibility. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u41	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I very carefully ask you to respond to what I have to say. The Constitution of Ukraine in article 6 establishes that the state authority in Ukraine is exercised on the basis of its division into legislative, executive and court. The legislative, executive and judicial authorities exercise their powers within the limits established by this Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Democratic and Civil Control of the Military Organization and the Law Protection Authorities of the State, in article 8, Parliamentary Control, defines the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to exercise control over the military organization and the law enforcement authorities of the State, which it must carry out during the entire period of its work. These do not include those which are primarily committees of the Supreme Council, such as national security and defence, law enforcement, the fight against organized crime and corruption, powers cannot be resolved within their powers and which also require the establishment of a standing special commission of the Supreme Council on democratic civil control. I would like to point out that a permanent commission that, in exchange for the work of these committees, is to be elected by the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies, not temporarily, but for the entire term of office of the Supreme Council of the relevant vocation. Part two of article 9 of this Law of Ukraine, "Approval of Parliamentary Committees and Special Commissions in the Implementation of Controls", provides that, in order to study the preparation of a preliminary examination of specific issues in the field of national security and defence of law enforcement, the Supreme Council, within its powers, may create temporary special commissions and, in order to conduct investigations into matters of social interest, temporary follow-up committees operating in accordance with the law. And I want to emphasize that the word "species" and "can create temporary ones." That is, not all questions, not necessarily, but the full term of the appointment of the Supreme Council. I will try to bypass these restrictive prescriptions by adopting a decree, not a law, or a change to it, which the President of Ukraine would necessarily veto, I think is irrelevant, illegal and unconstitutional. The Ukrainian Committees Act gives committees broad powers and opportunities to carry out the work for which the authors of the draft decree, the heads of the National Security and Defence Committees and the legislative enforcement of the fight against crime are going to create another duplicative structure. And I recommend that those who are not familiar with this Ukrainian law first read chapter two, "Functions and Committee Powers." Moreover, the proposed position limits the existing rights of Ukrainian national deputies, who are part of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Paragraph 4 of article 15 of the Law on Democratic Civilian Control of the State’s Military Organization provides only a report by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council on the implementation of the State Budget for National Security and Defence of Law Protection. The law on democratic civil control does not provide for the right to hear reports from the heads of bodies forming a military organization of the State and the law enforcement authorities that propose the author of the draft position. It's provided under the Rules, I have a report. It's part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u42	Finish up, you've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u43	I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich, I was misrepresented right now. I'm done. I'm done, but I'm not on the wrong track. It is given part of the first article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees, which establishes that committees have the right to monitor compliance with the Constitution, laws, other legal acts adopted by the Supreme Council, to monitor the legality, economy and efficiency of the costs incurred by the State budget, to listen to the first vice-premier, vice-premiers, ministers, heads of State Committees, offices, other bodies of state executive power and organizations, as well as local self-government and unification of citizens. In order to resolve the issues that the Supreme Council and its committees are facing under the law on democratic control, enough is in the Constitution of powers given by the Committees Act. Committees can also hold joint meetings and prepare them to provide responses to working groups, and they can involve ministerial officials and authorities, local authorities. So you don't have to create extra legal acts and mess up Ukraine's legal field. If something is missing in the mandates of the committees whose heads have been proposed to create an additional bureaucratic structure and they do not have these capabilities, they can be formulated and amended by the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm proposing a draft Supreme Council decision on a special commission of Ukraine on democratic civilian control over the military organization of the state's law enforcement agencies, number 4345, to reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u44	Thank you. Rubinian for replication. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have literally witnessed this kind of regulatory know-how for three minutes when a representative of the Bureau comments not only on the speeches but even on the question to the rapporteur. But I would like to clarify your comment. The thing is, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u46	Please turn off the microphone, I'll explain. Thank you for making my point. I really did. But please, I will no longer violate you. Please write in writing that you want to take the line. I'll give it to you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on this decision. Puts the vote to the vote. The first will be the vote on the draft decision of the People’s Deputy Karmazin. Please make up your mind. [[10:48:38]] For 135 The decision is not taken. It's about the vote of the Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Democratic Civil Control over the Military Organization and the State's law enforcement agencies. Registration number 4345. Please vote. [[10:49:13]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The question is now out of the question. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" is zero, "The Regions of Ukraine" is two, a faction of communists is 57, "Trug Ukraine", "Social Democracy", "The People's Government" is none, "The Socialists" is one, "The Block of Timoshenko" is zero, "Deminicatives" is one, "The Agrarian Party" is one, "The People's Choice" is none, "The National Choice" is none, "The National Party" and "The Postfaction" is one vote. The question is now out of the question. Yes, please, the Zarubinski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u47	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to make a point. The thing is, I realize that the different political forces have different perceptions of Euro-Integrating someone doesn't like it so much that they're even trying to remember it. But what I would like to say is that really the commission for the implementation of the Ukrainian-NATO action plan is a huge plan that concerns all spheres of democratisation of Ukrainian society has been created and voted in favour of it by about 300 deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and frankly, the Committee on European Integration is a committee, and this is a temporary special commission. Thanks for the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a draft regulation on the establishment of a special parliamentary-government commission on the coordination of the activities of the authorities and the public with regard to the integration of Ukraine into the World Trade Organization. Cassianov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u49	Cassianov Sergei Pavlovich, 37 constituency, non-factional. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Your Consideration Is Offered draft Decision establishing a joint parliamentary-government commission on the coordination of the activities of the authorities and the public with regard to the integration of Ukraine into the World Trade Organisation at number 4129. The purpose of this joint parliamentary commission is to: ensuring parliamentary control over Ukraine's accession to WTO; Improving coordination and cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the government, business circles and the public on this issue; ensuring preparations for integration and further functioning of Ukraine within the framework of the WTO. Regarding the need for improved coordination and cooperation between the government and parliament, the recommendations of Parliamentary hearings on the status of preparations for the entry into WTO approved by the decree of 1505. In 2003, the Supreme Council Decree on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the move to take action on Ukraine's entry into WTO since 09.07.2003. These regulations determine the need to ensure parliamentary and public control over Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. According to the latest ruling of the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration and the Committee on Economic Policy, it was entrusted with preparing proposals to ensure parliamentary and public control over Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. In order to do this, a draft decree was drawn up for the creation of a joint parliamentary-government commission with the participation of the public. The MPs and groups supported the idea of creating such a commission and delegated their representatives to the parliamentary part of the commission. The initiative to create a commission has found support in government. The Committee on European Integration considered the draft decision at its meeting and unanimously decided to support it. The draft ruling was also considered by the Rules Committee and the Committee on Economic Policy, and their observations are taken into account in the drafting of the regulation. As a result of the drafting of the decision is proposed instead of Gurenk Stanislav Ivanovich, Matvijeva Valentina Grigorovitch and Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, to be introduced into the commission of the national deputies: Makenka Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, Matvijev Vladimir Josephovich and Savic Valentina Viktorovich. There is no objection to the given replacement. The government and parliament see the introduction to the WTO as a priority for our foreign policy, and we believe that this commission will become a coordination mechanism and a tool for parliamentary control. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u50	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Let's be clear. For the reasons of the vote, please, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich! In accordance with the Rules, I ask that this vote be put first on the basis of a draft regulation, and not put in general, because the question is extremely important if it is accepted, because I have other colleagues, and now from the rostrum, there are proposals to improve its text, it is a very responsible document and cannot be voted on at once. So, using, let's say, your right to make changes, suggestions and additions, if accepted as a basis, I ask you to allow a week to allow this responsible, international, by the way, document of international importance to be finalized and not voted on as a whole. So I ask you to consider this requirement of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u52	That's exactly what's going to happen, because there's this proposal from the committee, and I'm going to put it there. Please, for reasons, and here is the decision of the Committee of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u53	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. I'm not just from the regular committee, I'm from the faction. The report said that the commission was recommended instead of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, which meant the faction’s proposal, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. That's true, but Matthew Vladimir Grigorovich's faction never recommended membership of that commission, since there is no such person in our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u54	Yeah, we'll figure it out. I remind you, fellow Members, there are committee decisions here, the Committee on Rules recommends further work, and the Committee on European Integration recommends that we take this as a basis. I'm betting because this was the first committee of the Committee on European Integration to vote. Adopt a draft decree establishing a special parliamentary-government commission on the coordination of the activities of the authorities and the public with regard to the integration of Ukraine into the World Trade Organization, registration number 4129. Based on the base. Please make up your mind. [[10:56:33]] For 370. Decision taken. Since there have been objections to the need to work on it, we do not generally vote. I'll take that as a base. It's happening. Once again, dear colleagues, I resemble the rule of the Rules. If there is a denial in the National Deputies that they do not support the bill as a whole, we are obliged to send it for second reading. That's one thing. The other one. Comrade Cassianov, I'm telling you this is exactly the decision of the committee. Order accepted as a matter of fact. And to determine the same thing, on the basis of that. In a day or two, no questions asked. The draft Decision on the Establishment of an Inter-Parliamentary Commission for the Cooperation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of the Inter-Parliamentary Group to deal with the Russian Federation on matters of distribution between the states of the former USSR Savings Bank on the contributions of Ukrainian citizens is pending. Registration number 3289. Please, Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Taking into account the extraordinary importance of resolving the problem of the gradual return of citizens of Ukraine to the state-renewed cash savings made between 2 January 1992 and 2 January 1992, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Catherine Fomenko, initiated a draft decision, which was co-operated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, taking into account the existence of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of the draft decision is to create an inter-parliamentary mechanism to deal with the deputies of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of Questions concerning the allocation between the States of the liabilities of the former savings bank of the USSR. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comment on the draft decision. And the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting, reviewed the draft regulation and approved the recommendation for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the text of the draft regulation be supplemented by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u56	Thank you. All you have to do is take a look at the changes. The decision was a year or more ago. There aren't any more of those people you're offering. No questions? There are questions, please sign in. Let me explain. Three minutes. Warm up, prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u57	Thank you. May I have the floor to the People's Deputy Tegnibok?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u58	Please, it's a Dragniboka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Oleg Alexiyovich, if an interparliamentary committee is formed, what do you think will be the ideology of the Ukrainian side? I mean, are we going to ask the Russian Federation to pay that money back? And the second question. Who do you think was to blame then for the government leadership of Ukraine, who was to blame that the Ukrainian side lost a huge amount of citizens' savings, which actually went against the Russian Moscow, then the Soviet, the bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u60	To answer your questions, it is this inter-parliamentary group that has the very competence to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Semenyuk. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u62	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Oleg Grigorovich, I am a member of the committee for the preparation of these normative documents relating to the clarity of the definition of real debt and the mechanism for the return of citizens' savings initiated by Catherine Fomenco. And that's why I think we still need to get this straight, and our commission is doing it right. But I have a question for you. Please tell me, if there will be such appropriate negotiations at the intergovernmental and inter-parliamentary level today, we would be better off following the law that we passed in the session hall, and this bill was initiated by Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz in 1997, who clearly said that whatever authority would not come, who would not come -- the savings should be returned. And that's what the Socialist Party of Ukraine stands for, and I think you are, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u63	Your question is, in my opinion, the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u64	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u65	Dear reporter, you understand that the situation in Russia and Russia has now changed to power in the State Duma by people who do not hide their anti-Ukrainian views and who have built their pre-election campaign and victory to recognize Ukraine as their future colony. I mean, I don't know if this form of cooperation with Russian chauvinists can at least produce any results. I certainly don't mind having such a thing created in the Assembly, but do you believe that at least something can be achieved through such negotiations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u66	I must remind you that there is and is an inter-parliamentary commission from the cooperation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the federal assemblies of the Russian Federation. Such a commission is already in operation. As for the change of personnel in connection with the elections to the State Duma, it will take place in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u67	And I'll have a question. Paragraph 2 of the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u68	Yes, in the second sentence, it reads: "Controlling the implementation of this decree will place Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich on the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u69	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I am voting on a draft decision on the initiative of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of Cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation of the Inter-Parliamentary Group to deal with the Russian Federation on the distribution of inter-State obligations of the former USSR Savings Fund on the contributions of Ukrainian citizens. Registration number 3289. Please vote. [[11:04:48]] For 328 Decision taken. For reasons of what? The vote took place. For reasons of vote, a vote may be taken before a vote. Do not violate the Rules. The draft decree on changes in the composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor compliance with the law when importing food and other goods into the customs territory of Ukraine is pending. These are the two bills we have in 3282 and 3282-1. National deputies Skomarowski and Sandler report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Why did this decision arise? We're on the commission, as the head of this report, unanimously endorsed the decision of National Deputy Gabrieluk Ivan Jaroslavovich, who is elected in the 126th district and in the district he has a Milnitsky customs office, he himself has taken steps to work on the commission. We approved his decision and made such a decision. Please support the wish of John Jaroslavovich Gabrieluk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Sandler's taking off his offer. Please, Valentin Grigorovitch from the committee. From the Matthews Committee, please. And we don't have a committee. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u72	At the Committee's meeting on 20 May last year, two draft decrees were discussed by the national MPs Skomarovski and Yavorovski, as well as the second draft of the ruling, which was tabled, please excuse me, and by the national MP Sandler. The second draft of the regulation also refers to the change in the composition of the temporary commission, which is proposed to be excluded from this commission by representatives of the Democratic Initiative Group of Raikov and Rybikin, and to include members of this committee, or, more faithfully, representatives of the same Deputy Group of Saints and Dobkin. It should be noted that according to the requirements of article 4.6. 3 The Supreme Council Rules, the minimum number of members of the Commission, should ensure that no less than one member is represented by each registered MP and group. Representatives of all, I emphasize, of all registered groups and factions are represented on the provisional commission. And the number, respected colleagues, of the members of one faction of the Rules is not limited. Therefore, we would like to support the draft regulations that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u73	Valentin Georgiyovich, but the point is that the proposal you made was withdrawn by Sandler.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u74	I'm talking about what she was.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u75	I see. So we're going to be, uh, honorary colleagues, I'm stressing again. There were two bills: 3282, author of Skomarowski reported 3282-1 Sandler. Sandler takes off his offer. That's why we're going to put to the vote a draft decree on changes in the composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor compliance with the law when importing food and other goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. [[Bill number 3282]] Please vote. [[11:09:13]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The question is out. There's a decision-making project coming up. Please, Yavorowski. The procedure has already taken place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have raised my hands, this is very fundamental to me as a question for the MP. I'm talking about the decision we made on the savings we made on Ukraine's negotiations with Russia. I'm asking you very much, I'm proposing that there be a protocol assignment here. The fact that this commission is going to work -- this group -- I have no doubt, but we know what power is being chosen in Russia today, and for me, as an MP, and for my constituents, it's very important what ideology this group will take. Because of this, I propose that they produce this ideology, this position, and that they do. for they will act on our behalf, from Parliament, from the Ukrainian people, and that we may establish this ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u78	And we're going to say, "We're not going to get up, sir. We're not getting up!".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, to the questions we have considered, we do not return, and I ask you not to force me to violate them. I thought you were from that question we were just considering. The questions related to the Redemption were considered, and we made a decision. Question solved. There's no turning back. This question is also being answered. There is a draft Decision on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for monitoring the observance of the constitutional rights of citizens to participate in meetings, meetings, campaigns, demonstrations and implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4546]] Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich reports. Please, Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! The bill under number 4546 was not included in the agenda. He is not the kind of person that can automatically be put on the schedule of meetings. Therefore, according to the Rules, we do not have the right to consider this matter. It should first be decided on the Conciliation Board to put into the agenda and then consider. Please act in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u81	We are acting in accordance with the Rules. I remind you of last December's events, December-November, when we decided by the Supreme Council to unlock the situation of the Supreme Council and the events related to Donetsk and other cities, we decided to include this issue in the agenda. In accordance with the Rules, questions that were included in the agenda and in the session to which they were included are not considered, and they are moved to the next session. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! Your view is on the proposal for a decree, which was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to ensure that the constitutional rights of citizens are respected in the congregations, rallyings, marches, demonstrations that we adopted last year. One of the points in this regulation was the establishment of a temporary special commission to monitor the observance of the constitutional rights of citizens. The problem that is becoming more acute in Ukraine is that citizens will soon be able to hold meetings or rallies in immigration or underground. And we need to create a parliamentary commission that can ensure parliamentary control over compliance with legislation. The draft regulations take into account the proposals made by the factions of the members of the commission. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u83	Any questions? Please sign in. Let me explain. Three minutes, please, Kenzier, followed by Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Victor, in this endorsement that you are proposing, which are essential there, so that the listeners who are listening to the work of the Supreme Council today will know, and perhaps very many of the national deputies, as it were, do not elude the essence of this proposal that you report. What is envisioned by this resolution, what steps to improve, to uphold democracy and all the points that have been raised?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u85	You remember, evidently, what prompted the adoption of this decree. Events in several areas of Ukraine that were associated with the inability to hold legally prescribed meetings or rallies, peaceful action by Ukrainian citizens. In this regard, a decision was made to have the interim commission prepare the hearings in Parliament, develop the procedure, and draw up the Rules. We were unable to implement this decision under one circumstance because a temporary commission had not been formed to develop the procedure. Now we have the opportunity to go back to the point where the commission will be formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u86	Please, Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u87	Victor Mikhailovich, two questions. Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Do you believe that the interim commission of inquiry will be above the Constitution or that it will be able to introduce within the Constitution the provisions that exist today when television does not give, the radio does not give when meetings cannot be held and so on. And second moment. Victor Mihajlovich, as an economist, as a representative of the "Our Ukraine" faction, if you can answer, why didn't "Our Ukraine" vote today for the Savings Bank for the return of this money? Why "Our Ukraine" is speculating today what Russia is supposed to do, and when Parliament has decided to set up a commission on this issue to publicly say to who you should, you have not voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u88	I think the second question has nothing to do with the substance of the question that we're discussing, because we're ready and we're going to consider the issue of return. As for the first question. The Constitution of Ukraine provides for parliamentary control over the actions of the executive branch. I think your faction also feels the need for such control and consideration of the responsible persons who are responsible for upholding the rule of law on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u89	Please, Hiccup. No, I'm sorry, time's up, but I've already given my word. Well, please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u90	May I have Semenyuk's word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u91	The Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u92	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, we support you in this matter. But I would like, Adam Ivanovich, to address you today as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. We have the Law on Temporary Commission Investigations Blocked. Today, more than a dozen temporary commissions of inquiry have been established in the Supreme Council. We're giving birth to commissions that actually don't have proper status, and they're being ignored by executive authority today. Adam Ivanovich, taking into account the high costs of the Supreme Council, ask for the following agenda for the following week, to put into the agenda the proposals made by the President to the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions. Today, such commissions are offered by both the majority and the minority. I think it's the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u93	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. I think it's the right of every deputy and faction. On the Conciliation Board, let's ask questions about inclusion in the agenda. From the Bespali Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u94	Boris Bespalij, Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. At its meeting on January 19, the committee considered the draft decree. In doing so, the Committee took into account the position that the Committee on Budget Affairs did not consider the proposed bill, which is quite logical, because, as has already been reported today, such commissions work within the framework of budgetary appointments for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and do not need additional budgetary costs. The Committee on Human Rights of National Smaller and International Relations proposes to support the draft decision as a whole. The Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs and the Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supported the draft regulation, but it was just that on November 18, last year, the decision of the Supreme Council, as discussed today, and the chairman of the meeting, had been taken. That is, there are no obstacles to making a decision. Also at the meeting of the Committee on Issues, our committee, was taken into account the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, according to which the project can be based on proposals and observations made. There were suggestions and comments. They were mainly about the organization of the work of the commission. For example, the project does not define the purpose of creating and functioning a temporary special commission, according to the Scientific and Expert Committee. In the opinion of our committee, the purpose and the sphere of activity, they are clearly seen even by its name -- this is monitoring the observance of constitutional rights, that is, the constant monitoring of this work. Taking into account the views of other committees as well as the position of the Scientific and Expert Office, the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government made the following decision. First. To decide on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for monitoring the observance of the constitutional rights of citizens in the assembly, rallying, marching, demonstrations and implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies on the basis of and in general. And the second. In harmony with article 4.6. 3 In determining the composition of the Commission, the Supreme Council rules should take into account the additional candidates proposed to ensure a proportional representation in the composition of the committee. Thus, the general position of the parliamentary committees and the Main Committee is that the committee recommends that the draft regulation be adopted. Thank you for your attention. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u95	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, for the reasons of the vote, please, Assadchev, the Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to step out of the procedure. The point is, the functions of this commission don't fit in with the notion of "temporary special," and they fit in with "temporary investigation." So what is monitoring? It's tracking. It's like primitive control over what might be a violation. And if they do, the commission has the right to investigate these facts according to the Constitution. And that's what social interests are, and you and I all understand that very well. Thus, according to the Constitution, this is part of the mandate of the commission of inquiry, not a special commission. So I propose to create a commission of inquiry, a temporary commission of inquiry on this issue. According to the Constitution, this requires 150 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u97	Well, we have a different question, so we need 226 votes. Please, Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u98	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I still insist that all the questions that have not been considered in the previous session, and even as important as we are now talking about, they can't automatically go into the order of the day of this session. I looked again at all the questions that were raised yesterday. Tuesday was voted by the Supreme Council on the adoption of the agenda, and there is no question. So in accordance with the Rules, I ask you not to ask, remove this question from consideration. Appropriately, the next Conciliation Board will decide whether or not to make such a decision. And then, if it's included in the agenda, look at it. I demand that the procedure be followed. I know you know the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u99	Thank you, Raisa Vasilivna. Is someone being beaten or what they do? Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what our colleagues and Assadchev and Raisa Vasilovna Bogatirovov have said. Assadchev has turned our attention right, but we can't change now, she's going to vote as a temporary special commission. The creation of the Temporary Special Commission requires 226 votes at a minimum. That's the first one. Second, for the observation of Raisa Vasilovna. When we voted on Tuesday for the order of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we voted on it in general. At the end of this decree, it is generally stated that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the issue of the creation of questions is included. Now, now. Temporary, special, and investigative committees. So this is a question that we're going to vote on, but once again, this is not a commission of inquiry, where the Constitution requires 150 minimum, and this is a special commission where it takes at least 226 votes to make a decision. That's one thing. And the second. Bespali reported from the State Building Committee. He said they were for making changes. I'll read you the proposals that the factions have made, their changes, and more specifically, the addition to this commission. In particular, the faction of the Socialists proposes to include Malinovski Petrovic as part of this commission, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine of Kozlovsky and the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Andreszuk. [[united]] So with these additions, I'm going to put it. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the observance of the constitutional rights of citizens to participate in assemblies, rallyings, marches, demonstrations and implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Registration number 4546. Vote. [[11:26:43]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules on the grounds of vote before the vote, I give the factions. Now I see the hands: both Pinzenik and others. But I do recall that the Assadchev spoke on the basis of the vote before voting from your faction. Authorized or not, that's another matter, but he had the right to vote. As a reporter, please, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. This decision is taken to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This decision was made last year, and there is an appropriate point. And we are obliged by this decision to form an appropriate commission. There is a suggestion: To change the status of this commission from a special commission to an investigator and to vote in favour of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, you have the right to make such a contribution. We don't discuss matters. I won't give you another word. I'm talking to Victor Mikhailovich. This is the right of your legislative initiative. We've got 202 votes, no decision taken. You can make a decision to change the status of the commission from a special to an investigator and we'll consider it. Question taken. There is a draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in February 2004. [[on the status and prospects of improving the higher education system in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 4163]] As reported by Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u102	Honourable MPs, a group of National MPs of the Solidarity Group of the Ukrainian faction introduced a draft decree for the Ukrainian Government Day in February 2004. [[on the status and prospects of improving the higher education system in Ukraine]] The need for this decision was due to the fact that we all see what is happening now in the higher education institutions of Ukraine, as the elections go through and this testimony is the election of the rectors, and this testimony is that, let's say, a week or so ago we voted for a few, six or eight bills that relate to amendments to the Higher Education Act. I'm not going to say the cases that have been mentioned here repeatedly at the University of Zaporozhye and at the National Medical Academy, so our goal was to draw attention, ask questions from the government and hear their answers and make the right decision. But after that. As we suggested in February 2004, because the decision was made long before that, but it took time, and so it is probably too late in February. As far as I know, the Education Committee has considered our decision and decided not to hold a Government Day, but a parliamentary hearing, requiring greater public attention, to hold regional seminars with workers, with directors from all universities in Ukraine, with rectors from humanitarian universities, technical schools and then to invite about 500 people from the regions to have an honest, open conversation. This is registered at 5069, by Nikolaynko and others. We don't claim to be author, we think it's very good, and we therefore propose to support Decree 5069 on parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects of the higher education system in Ukraine. [[I'm on behalf of the authors]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u103	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Any questions? Sign up. Please light up. Three minutes. I don't think she should ask. Will You Ask? No, it's not. Then, please, Matthew, follow him, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u104	Please pass the word "Cibenko" to Petra Stepanovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u105	Please, Zibenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u106	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear reporter! Personally, the faction of Communists is absolutely divisive. The kind of concern that you and the other drafters have about the situation in high school. Indeed, there are problems that require a clear solution. And I fully support the consideration of the problem on Government Day. The only question I have. We're asking about Government Day in February. Today we know what date the calendar is. In fact, the day of government is five days away. How we're going to prepare this extremely important and responsible government day. Because, really, the way we prepare it will depend on a lot and a lot of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u107	Thank you for asking. The point is that I said that February came about because the decision was made in November or October. So now, of course, it's completely unrealistic. But that is why we support this proposal, not the Government Day, but the parliamentary hearings in May. Is it Stanislav Mikolaiovich? Stanislav Mikolaiovich, in May, right? In May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u109	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, I have such a question. In fact, the committee rightly decides that we should first have a hearing on the committee, then bring it in and consider it here, but the government's day should be planned now. Why you can't change now, and as a reporter, you can't change the month, let's say, for June or May, the government's Day right after the hearings that are going to arise, all the more so, what's clear is that the quality of education requires a lot of questions, the provision of constitutional rights for citizens, the availability and freeness of higher education -- also a lot of questions, the improvement of the network -- is also full of questions, the national president posted institutions that don't even speak the national language. And there are national universities, and there are universities, and there are institutes full of them that are anti-national, and they don't comply with the law or the President's decrees. I mean, the question needs to be discussed. Let's change the moon. And now make a proposal to vote now. Save our time, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u110	There is a proposal for the approval of Yuri Anatoliyovich to hold Government Day in May 2004. But as an author, I think I'm convinced by Stanislaw Nikolaynko that a greater resonance will have parliamentary hearings. So it's just, well, we understand that these are parliamentary hearings. But I can't say for all the drafters of the bill, so it was probably more logical to put two to the vote: in May the government day and in May the parliamentary hearings, or in May the parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. From the committee Stanislav Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like first of all to thank both Yuri Artemenko, and all the colleagues who introduced this bill on the situation in high school for actually affecting a very painful problem. [[Nikolainka, Committee of Science and Education]] By not talking to them, the Committee on Science and Education also proposes to consider this problem, but more complex, because we are concerned about today and the quality of higher education, it is our addition to the world and European educational space, our addition to it. process, and autonomy, financial and economic activities, and paid education, and student and lecturer's social status, and so on. So we've planned a whole package of actions with the Ministry of Education and the committee itself. Workgroup created. The 27th issue in Odessa is a large meeting that examines this issue with the participation of all the rectors. In March, technical universities will consider problems. Then we'll look at the social aspects. And that's why we're proposing, and we've made our decision number 5069 to hold parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects of higher education on May 13th. In order not to cool it down, it's more complex and quality and high-level preparation. And end the parliamentary hearing by approving the draft amendments to the Higher Education Act, taxing higher education institutions and helping the student today so that he can receive quality and accessible education in accordance with the Constitution and anticipate these corresponding changes both in the Budget Code and in the 2005 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u113	By procedure, Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, I have a specific proposal for Government Day regarding the state and prospects of improving the higher education system. Let's not just listen to the government, let's listen to the same thing as the House of Accounts. I know that the Court of Auditors is currently conducting a systematic examination of higher education institutions. Especially in the context of the recent publication of the Leipzigs, a whole bunch of supposedly higher education institutions that train specialists, especially in the field of medicine, health care, to the extent that it is important. In the future, what kind of doctors will we see as well as representatives of other specialties? To put an end to this. I suggest that the Court of Auditors provide us with the same information and information. So that this government day doesn't just end up, as always, talking big and no results.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u115	In view of the fact that the Government’s Day is severely limited, and we will not be able to do so with you, we propose with the same agenda, but parliamentary hearings with information from the head of the Court of Auditors, with presentations by the students, with presentations by the Rectors, scientists, national deputies, to make this a comprehensive consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when we decide on parliamentary hearings, then we will determine who we shall invite and who we shall listen to, including the head of the Court of Auditors. So, Stanislav Mikolaiovich? Dear colleagues, I am voting on draft decree number 5069, draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings with the agenda "On the state and prospects of development of the higher education system in Ukraine." They are proposed to be held on May 13, this year. There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[11:39:05]] For 225 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. What, you haven't been able to vote? Dear colleagues, some demand that the Rules be followed again. I'll put it to a vote. Who's to vote on the draft decree?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u117	The questions are consistent with the Ministry of Education and with the majority. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u118	Who's in favour of voting, please vote. [[11:39:57]] For 238. Decision taken. I put to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 5069 on parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects of a higher education system in Ukraine. Please vote. We're voting 5069, I said. They had just agreed to report to the committee’s chairman. [[11:40:33]] For 236 Decision taken. Please, from the procedure of Matvijev Valentin Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We've now really considered an important chapter of our agenda today, which is to spend the days of government and create or change the composition of temporary investigators and special commissions. Yes, it is. But I don't understand, Volodymyr Mikhailwich, who opposes the consideration of draft decrees amending the Supreme Council Rules, the order of the record of each issue discussed in the Supreme Council, and the draft decree that regulates the work of the Temporary Investigations and Special Commissions. Tuesday, these questions were asked. On Monday at the Conciliation Council, this was agreed. Who would benefit from that? I promise you that the committee will deal with this approach that someone wants to introduce into the practice of the work of the Supreme Council. But I'm asking the leadership of the Supreme Council to find out and give us an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, as I was informed, the question was taken off the committee's offer. Now we're going to figure it out and give you information about that. I understand. First deputy, he was told that. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the chapter of drafts in the second reading. The first is the draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of Ukraine's 2004 State Budget Act, re-reading. There is a proposal to postpone this bill and return to consideration when the members of the government are present, and then we will determine how to deal with it. Is there no objection? A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties is being announced for consideration. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! In line with the decision of the Supreme Council following the adoption of the draft law in the first reading, the committee worked on it, taking into account the proposals made by the deputies. Practically, all the proposals, they were few, they were taken into account. It's actually about that. on two points: simplifying the legalization of the activities of the primary party organizations that carry out their activities in the respective territory by way of communication and providing guidance from the administrations of justice, and on the grounds that members of the tax service cannot be members of the parties, they are compared to other categories of government officials that cannot be members of the parties. I'd like to highlight one more detail. Management. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council recommends that we do not make any specifics in the law regarding the time limits for the publication of instruction from the Office of Justice, that is, to fix three hours. Because it's a violation of the law, the Labour Code. Because there are different circumstances that may prevent you from fulfilling the law within three hours. So there's a proposal: in the last paragraph, not to write "three hours," but "three days," which is the local administration of justice, by adopting legalization documents, has been issuing a legalization manual for the primary party organization and the political party for three days. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals are all taken into account. About what, Alexander Baranowski? Alexander Baranowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I wanted to be motivated. Last Thursday, I attended a meeting in Zarishin district of Ravenna. 11 o'clock in the morning. The head of the district administration, who is the head of the Agrarian Party in the area, is holding a meeting with an asset on the construction of the Agrarian Party. 11 o'clock in the morning. That's why we have these effects in the village. So this law that you're giving, for reasons, voting it, it's going to prevent those who are in power from using service cabinets, phones and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u124	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich, for the good question. It has little to do with this bill, but it points out once again that there is much wrong in the State. I know even one head of administration who's been doing party construction all the time. But that's a slightly different question, we'll get to him later. And today we need to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the repairs are all taken into account. A proposal just made by Alexander Alexanderovich, you know, brought to you, more precisely. I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole the bill of the bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine. Registration number 1288. [[11:46:32]] For 209 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? By factions, please explain. You'll insist, I'll read it, don't worry. Read it? I'll read it. I'm reading. "Our Ukraine" - 95, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 59, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and "Trug Ukraine" - 0, Social Democratic Party - 0, people - 0, Socialist Party of Ukraine - 20, Block of July Timoshenko - 16, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Agrarian Party - 1, National Choice - 0, NDP - 9, non-fractional - 7. [[united]] Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I'm speaking on behalf of the committee. Because that's the question that was discussed there. But in this case, I'm addressing the majority of the parties that represent, well, in my view, power. This is another testimony that you support the violation of the Constitution. You support the volunteerism of the local authorities, who are twisting the hands of today's disgruntled parties and asking questions by Alexander Baranowski, I mean, it won't be the same until the end. You want your parties, your organizations to register in the way opposition parties register today or something. This law is not necessary for opposition. It has to function normally for all parties, because it's about not being taxed there, not being there. there should be no pressure on the registration of primary partnerships. If you are not responsible for the implementation of the Constitution, and more simply, if you have a conscience, you should vote in favour of this law, because it regulates the totally normal relationships that are taking place in society today. That's why I'm calling on my allies from Our Ukraine, asking my colleagues from most of them to vote, otherwise believe me. Raisa Vasilivna, I address you in particular. Stepan Bogdanovich! There will be no more partying as there were parties in the region. I know how this was done by the tax office. I ask or put to the vote again and do not interrupt me, please, Volodymyr Kirilovich, so that I do not address you again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? For reasons of what? The vote is over, the motive before the vote. Please have a seat. I make an offer to comply with the Rules. Who wants to re-vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine? I'd like you to determine by vote. [[11:49:40]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. A draft Law on the right of municipal property to administer property rights is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, please represent the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u128	Deputies! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today we are re-examined by the draft Ukrainian Law on Communal Property, Public Property Management [[Registration number 0952]] The draft was considered on 11 December last year and, at the request of members of the Committee on State Construction and Local Government, the decision was postponed to 25 December in view of the need to clarify certain provisions of the draft. I would like to remind you that the project was made available by the Legal Office without any comment. Proposals from the deputies, members of the State Building Committee on Local Government have been submitted to our Committee on 15 December and have been considered on 16 December, without the participation of the authors in connection with the events. The Committee supported the addition to article 8, paragraph 3, of the “communal property” of the exception to article 5 of Part 10, paragraph 1, article 20, of the words “examination”. Other proposals, in the Committee's view, were of no value and were not supported by the Committee. For example, the deletion or modification of the words of the areas in the cities if they were created on the grounds that the terminology of the Ukrainian laws on local self-government in Ukraine and until it has been amended as a matter of principle, our law should also be drafted in the opinion of the Committee. The proposal to delete the reference to the Law on the State Register was not supported, as it was not established by law. I am referring to the view that the draft law in question has been introduced on second reading and will have to be considered today. There is no support for the proposal to amend the terminology of article 6 of Part 1, article 8 “not prohibited by law by law”. As this terminology of the Civil Code entered into force on 1 January 2004. The proposal to replace the words "12 July 1997" with "before the Act of Ukraine takes effect of local self-government". For the application of this law on the ground, we believe it is more important to indicate the date of its publication, since the case of a dispute will be important enough. The proposal to clarify the Council's authority was not supported because it had already been decided by the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. The Committee proposes that the draft be voted on in second reading and in whole. But before the meeting. And yesterday, we had consultations with the Committee on State Construction and Local Self-Government, which insisted on some of their changes. We therefore need to vote in an article on the changes that are being proposed. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u129	Thank you. Amendment number seven, which is rejected. National MP Artemenko insists on her? No, I can't see. Valentina Seminouk - Amendment 8. Valentina Petrovna microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u130	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Josephovich, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The number 8 proposal that I've prepared, and most of it is a proposal from a special control committee, that's what I'm talking about. Today, the State is constantly cheating on debts, providing adequate benefits for those obligations that have been imposed on businesses today. This is certainly necessary, but no one does it for free. That's what my offer is all about. If an enterprise that is private is cheating on an appropriate share of the State’s debt, such an enterprise should return to a share of the state’s utility property to the share of the amount that is being paid off accordingly. That's what I think will be fair, because today those debts that are credited especially to utilities have to be regulated. And this proposal is based on the suggestions of those district council heads who are working today in this area. So I think it's a complement. Or through exchange, that would be the right norm that would allow the state to settle the costs of the state in front of those to whom it is paying off the debt accordingly. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u131	To vote, Amendment 8 of Valentina Petrovna, this is page 4. [[11:55:28]] For-59 The solution is not supported, no correction is supported. Amendment 11 Ludmili Kirichenko. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on. Amendment 14 Valentini Seminouk. Are you insisting? It's coming off. And it's counted? Counted. Amendment 17. Kirichenko insists on her? They don't insist on the 17th. 21st, Kirichenko. Don't insist, I see. Amendment 29, Konovaluk. Valery Konovaluk, do you insist? No, it's not. Artemenko, 32nd, insists? No, it's not. Semenyuk, 38th. Are you insisting? All right, let's move on. Correction Kirichenko, 49. Is Kirichenko insisting? No, it's not. Corrections are included. There's an extra table here. Vladimir Josephovich, are we going to vote on her too?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u132	Yeah. This is the table we discussed with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u133	This is an additional table that agrees with the committee. First amendment, Anatoly Matvienko, Klukkowski and Bespaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u134	They don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u135	Another repair. So, shall we put it to a vote? The third amendment, Klukkowski and Bespalij. Please, Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, please note that the amendment is extremely important. In the proposed edition today, municipal property rights units should, in particular, provide, as it were written, representative bodies of local self - government, that is, councils, and executive bodies of councils, that is, performances. And that's good, and that's right. But the local authorities also include an organ composed of one person — a village, a village, a city head. In many cases the village does not even produce performances, and the executive functions are performed only by a village, a village, a city head. And in this paper, this organ, which is made up of one person, falls out. And so it turns out that utilities can't be used to finance its activities. That's why our committee is proposing an editorial saying, "And so is the activity of local self-government." It's all local property. So delete the words "representative and executive bodies of council." In fact, extend this formula. And we ask the committees and deputies to agree, otherwise rural, rural and urban heads fall off.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u137	Vladimir Josephovich, do you support this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u138	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u139	The committee supports. Is there no objection to taking it into account? All other proposals agreed? I ask you again, dear colleagues? Keynote microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are several agreed amendments, not all of them. So let's go through these amendments, and the few that agree, we're going to insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u141	All right, let's do some repairs. Amendment four. Are you insisting on her? Put her to the vote? Please, Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u142	We ask you to support this amendment in voting, to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u143	I put to the vote amendment number four Matthews, Keykowski and Bespalogo. [[11:59:58]] For-93 Not supported. Correction of the heel. Are you insisting on her? I'll bet you a vote on amendment five. Matvienko, Klukkowski, Bespali. [[12:00:22]] For-95 Not accepted. Amendment six. Are you insisting? Keynote microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to point out that these amendments apply to the formulations that apply to areas in cities. This isn't about terminology, it's about creating a conflict situation. We have different systems of governance in cities, and this is recognized by both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. And so it's just that the creation of areas in cities in the case that there are no representative bodies there doesn't create a community in the area, and then there's only urban communal property, and there's no district property at all. So you have to write these formulations that describe both situations -- and the existence of district councils, and their absence. That is why our changes are proposed. We don't understand, there's nothing political about this proposal. It's just clearing up the legal text that doesn't lead to conflict situations when they can't be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u145	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u146	Well, the situation is this: so far, no changes have been made to the Law on Local Self-Government, where it exists, and the contradiction in the Constitution has not yet been resolved, where there are indeed two formulations, I think that we cannot change the Constitution by this law and we cannot change the law on local self-government. The Committee has therefore been drafted in accordance with existing rules and existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u147	Klukkowski, please. Dear colleagues, we'll finish this discussion, then we'll take a break, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, once again, this is not about terminology. It's about when municipal property comes into existence, because it's not about the area as an administrative and territorial unit that has ownership, but it's about the territorial community that's represented by the council. If district councils are not formed in a number of cities, there is no subject to the exercise of ownership. Such an entity is only at the level of the city, a city council. Appropriately, the Constitutional Court’s decision on local self - government is needed, and these matters are clearly clarified in the city’s affairs. There is no legislative colossal system here. It will only be created if this law states that the property subject becomes an administrative unit. You can't write that out. That is, no district in the city is a property subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u149	Thank you. I put to the vote amendment number 6 of the people's deputies of Matviyenko, Klukkowski, Bespalogo. This is an additional comparative table to the draft Law on the Rights of Municipal Property and the Management of Municipal Property Objects. There's a vote coming. [[12:03:45]] For-96 The decision is not taken. What kind of correction are you still insisting on? What's the point? Okay, then you're going to take these amendments off. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Law, registration number 0952, "On the right of municipal property and the administration of objects of municipal property rights."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u150	Before the vote, a few words in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u151	Change the vote, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u152	The adoption of this law is very important for local governments; it is very important for the public services; it is very important for the people's deputies of Ukraine, because there is virtually no settlement where we would not have issues and problems with the management of communal property. Therefore, I ask all members of the people, including those who have not been elected in the majority districts, to vote in favour of this law. This law is very important for our future work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u153	I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as a bill of the bill, registration number 0952, "On the right of municipal property and the administration of objects of municipal property rights." Please vote. [[12:05:27]] For-100 The committee's proposal what?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u154	Move to third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u155	Please, calm down! Let me finish the question. It's going to be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u156	Second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u157	I am voting for re-reading draft law number 0952. A committee proposal. [[12:05:59]] For 199 The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, to me. Please, Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u158	Thank you. Gurenko, head of the committee, Communist faction. I want to address the radio audience and the voters who remembered today and the results of today's vote to be published in the Voice of Ukraine. Today, a 10-year-old law-making work that is extremely important to Ukrainian self-governance to solve the problem of property at the municipal level is being sacrificed to a completely stupid, in my opinion, narrow political views. You can't do that, Your Honor. That's the law they're waiting for. They're waiting. We know that, and what has been done with the vote today will lead to the continued theft of municipal property, the stretching of it, and the concealment of beautiful acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u159	Klukkowski and all. As the authors of the amendments. Dear colleagues, the vote took place. Now I'm just one more question. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u160	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Dear colleagues, I emphasized the committee I have the honour to represent, precisely because I would like to support Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko's position. A bill that has been in place for many years in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is very much needed in practice, had a chance to be adopted today. And that's why I'm again addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council and all the deputies, regardless of the factions. There is no politics, but there is a pure need for practical life. Let's either send it back to the second reading, and I'd like to re-vote this proposal, or just after a while we'll go back to it, but in this session, because its acceptance, I want to emphasize once again, is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u161	Dear National Deputies! This bill has been in Parliament for a long time, and it has been on a second read many times. I put it to a vote, you didn't support it, the bill was rejected. And according to the faction's requirements and in accordance with the Supreme Council's Decree on Enlightenment, I ask the secretariat to prepare and publish the results of the vote, to send the results of the vote to the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that during the break, representatives of the opposition have asked me, and most of them have requested that the draft Act amending the Law on Political Parties in Ukraine be sent to read again. But, honourable colleagues, by following the procedure, I will first put to the vote a question or you will support us to consider the need for re-second reading, and then, when you support it, then for a second reading to be in order. May I have your attention, please? Invite the deputies to the session room. John Alexanderovich, be assured that if you do not block and show what you are showing, it is serious and permanent. So calm down. Calm down! But you weren't, what are you talking about? You are a decent man, but you were not, but you saw nothing. I am voting on the proposal to consider re-reading the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. Registration number 1288. To - 318. I now put to the vote the question of re-reading the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Political Parties Act in Ukraine. Please vote. For -346. Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, registration number 2041-1, is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u163	Honourable deputies, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, have before you a bill amending the Law on the Rent of State and Communal Property, which has been finalized as a second reading by the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investment. The Committee has worked out 23 comments received from legislative actors on the first reading edition. Since some comments were contrary to the concept of the Act adopted in first reading, a large part of the proposals made by the deputies had to be rejected. Many of our comments on the bill have been taken into account, including editorially. The Committee is grateful to all the deputies who have participated in our working group. As a result, we have a text of a law that will greatly facilitate and make the relationship between tenants and lessors more transparent if adopted and contribute to the further development of the rent movement in Ukraine. With regard to the comments of legal administration, the Committee considers that they are sufficiently formal, do not affect the enactment of laws and do not result in a breach of budgetary and financial discipline. The Committee on Economic Policy and Public Administration, Property and Investment requests members to vote in favour of the adoption of the law on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, as amended, let's move on. Is the coat of arms insisting on repairs? Sharov Igor Fedorovich? No, it's not. The hunchback doesn't insist. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, amendment number six. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u165	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Josephovich! I thank you for all my suggestions taken into account by excluding the sixth amendment that I want to address you especially, the deputies, the majority. Because this issue has arisen at a meeting of the Special Monitoring Commission that enterprises that are included in the list of sites that are not subject to privatization are now renting. The courts intervene. And we have an example in Kiev when the courts decided to give up commercial structures to the property of the property. And the Cabinet of Ministers decided to invest a million and a half dollars. Therefore, I am asking for an offer under number six to supplement the fact that public property rentals are not subject to a list of objects that are not subject to privatization, which produce subcontractive products. I think that Vladimir Josephovich, a member of our commission, will support this proposal and members of other factions. That's what we agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u166	That can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u167	Is that the way to vote or not? The committee's backing up. Then let's put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u168	We're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u169	What? The committee agrees? Is there no need to vote? Vladimir Josephovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u170	There is no need to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u171	So the committee agrees. Seventh Amendment, Boris Bespallium. None. Let's move on. 10th Amendment. None. Thirteen. None. Fourteenth Amendment. None. All adjustments are included. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u172	Accept on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u173	Huh? I can't see. Let's vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u174	With the addition of Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u175	Please, Boris Bespaliy, the argument regarding the inadmissibility of this law. This is 2041-1. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, registration number 2041-1. Please vote. For 341 The law is passed. A draft law on the development of Ukraine’s automobile industry is being announced for consideration. Tsushko Vasil Petrovich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u176	Tsusko, Socialist faction, First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Finance. Dear colleagues, on 20 November, Bill 3677 was adopted by the Supreme Council on first reading. A total of 104 amendments to the draft had been submitted to the Committee, which had been discussed and voted on by the Committee in strict compliance with the Rules. In analysing and amending in general, it can be noted that there are two main positions under draft 3677: the position of the drafters and the position of the opponents, i.e. the deputies who have proposed other bills. A number of drafting amendments had been made by the drafters, which would improve the law. For consideration at the Committee meeting, all the amendments submitted were grouped into five main clusters for which a vote was taken. As a result, the Committee fully supported the drafting of the drafters of the bill and rejected the proposals of the opponent, i.e. not entirely, but by the majority. Proposals supported by the Committee, taking into account which the Supreme Council is invited to adopt legislation on second reading, are conceptual. It is meant that we have also introduced into the automotive industry, emphasized and introduced and regulated by this law, the production of these motorcycles. Let's move on. The investment programme, which is the basis for the enterprise's benefits, has been replaced by a more loyal and less enforceable programme for the creation of productive capacities and jobs. Third. According to the first-reading project, the benefits could only be obtained by enterprises that are already producing cars and which are already from Ukraine. The benefits are now available to enterprises that are implementing a production capacity and employment programme and are planning to produce products originating in Ukraine and later. I mean, it's all expanded in the bill. Further, the editorial clarification of the article on the definition of the country of origin has been given and the origin of the vehicles that make up the goods and spare parts. A concessional import duty rate for bodies and engines to cars from 20 per cent to 12 per cent was adopted and reduced. You remember that there were 20 percent on first reading. Furthermore, the provision on excise duties had been excluded from the bill because it had reduced the barrier to newly established enterprises. The bill also supported the committee by the fact that the incentive law was in force before it was completed. All of them. Yes, another, the Legal Office of the Supreme Council pointed out the need for some. the right to adopt those laws after its adoption, inter alia, was requested to transfer to the “Final Position” all articles relating to the amendment of existing legislation. In the light of the changes made and adopted after the Committee's consideration, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the draft on second reading. And if there are no amendments to it, it will be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u177	Yeah, let's do some repairs. Amendment 4, Seminoga, do you insist on it? The Microphone of the Seminoga People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! We're looking at the Ukrainian Automobile Development Bill today. But unfortunately, there's very little Ukrainian in this bill. That's why. There's not even a definition of what a Ukrainian car is. Instead, there is such a shy term as the car of Ukrainian origin. It includes Opel Astra and DAEWOO and Ziguli. Perhaps today no one will believe that Opel Astra is a Ukrainian car. So I'm going to propose an amendment to where we're going to define what a domestic car is, just a Ukrainian car of origin to give Ukrainians the right to own a Ukrainian car, a Ukrainian car, and allow this car to become a world-class car. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u179	The Committee did not support the amendment of Anatolia Ivanovich, because on page 7, it was conceptually different: that any car in which 50 per cent of the manner of, well, any details made in Ukraine was considered a vehicle of Ukrainian origin. Therefore, the Committee did not support it. Well, the hall is yours. The Committee was against this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u180	I'm putting to the vote amendment number four of the national MPs of Seminoga. For -176. Correction not accepted. Correction of the eighth National MP, Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? This is page three. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the definition of an enterprise for the production of cars or of assembly products and spare parts of cars should not contain a mandatory requirement for a country of origin, as the criteria for determining the country of origin for the production that is produced and used in the customs territory of Ukraine and for the production that will be used outside the customs territory of Ukraine are different and are determined by different legislative acts, such as international agreements that exist in other countries. So I propose that this bill should be deleted and I ask for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u182	Excuse me, may I? This rule relates to the amendment that was first. They're tied up. If we recognize that the criterion of origin is 50 per cent national, this rule rules out that point again. The Committee therefore rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u183	I'm betting on the vote of amendment number eight of the national MP of Seminoga. For - 177 The decision is not taken. Amendment number nine. National MP Gorbal insists? Microphone, please. Gorbal, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u184	Well, this amendment actually repeats the previous amendment, just in a different version.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u185	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u186	Well, I've already commented on the committee's decision, so go ahead. It's the same thing that Seminoga had the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u187	Let's just vote, the position of the committee is already known. I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 9 of the Gorbal People's Deputies. And Dobkina. Two authors. To - 220. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Amendment No. 11 of the people's deputy Zimin. Is the author insisting on the amendment? No, I can't see. Oh, he insists. Microphone, please turn it on. I'm sorry. 11th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u188	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u189	Please reason with her.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u190	The investments of the resident of Ukraine are here. With investments, the company. He has privileges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u191	The Committee has not discriminated against anyone, the Committee has stressed that any investment firm, without investment, has a legal entity in the territory of Ukraine that manufactures cars with 50 per cent of domestic spare parts entitled to benefits. We did not stress this discrimination with investments without investment. The amendment was therefore rejected in the same context. The Committee did not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u192	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 11 of the People's MP Zimina. [[page 4]] For - 170, It's not working. Amendment number 13 of Vladimir Zlatinski. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on. Amendment of the Rudienka Hennadia 22. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Yes, Amendment 25 of Winterfell. Are you insisting on her? Oh, no? Let's move on. Seminoga, repair 26. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! One of the changes made to the Ukrainian Automobile Promotion Act was the deletion of the term "localization of production". [[Act No. 2779]] This was done at the request of the European Union to implement a step-by-step action plan to amend and supplement the existing regulatory framework of Ukraine. Payments depending on the localization of production are replaced by a job creation program. And everything was introduced into the Ukrainian Automotive Act in Ukraine. Article 4 of Bill 3677, which we are considering today, is once again proposed to us to make a localization, but it's already a definition of the country of origin of cars, assembly and spare parts. But this location will be distributed not to all businesses, but only to those that do not have an investment program today. These are businesses such as ZAZ and LAZ. Why, then, should we accept again what we turned down in 2001? I propose to delete this rule from this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! Article 4 is a conceptual article. That is, if we did not support Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga's first amendment, that second concept would be the law, then article 4 is the concept of this law, which you supported by your vote. If deleted, the law makes no sense. That's why you have to decide. The Committee rejected the amendment by Anatolia Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u195	I bet on the vote of Amendment 26. [[author of Seminoga People's Deputy]] For - 189 It's not working. 17th National Deputy Gorbal. microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u196	The amendment introduces adjustments in line with the only Customs Code: the criteria of the country of origin. That is, it simply conforms to the single Customs Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u197	The Committee rejected this amendment because we are enacting a special law. If we now invoke the Customs Code again, it will be possible to import any spare parts, and we have now accepted the fourth with you, the article that 50 per cent should be national. On that basis, the Committee rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u198	I'm voting on amendment 27 of the Gorbal People's Deputy. For -255 The amendment's been made. Yes. Amendment 33 of the Seminoga People's Deputy, do you insist on it? In the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, realizing that our automobile industry is too young to talk about any constant things and, taking into account the world’s experience of manufacturing cars at an initial stage, it is impossible to produce cars with a full - scale cycle of operations, such as welding, painting, and folding of vehicles. Therefore, it is proposed to introduce mandatory requirements for welding and dyeing at the end of the 5th year since the approval of the investment programme. With the aim of increasing the production volume of cars, it is proposed to introduce quantitative requirements for their production. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u200	Thus, the Committee did not support this amendment for one simple reason: Ukraine was giving benefits to all those who were willing to invest seemed to be $150 million. That was a relief. It has now been determined that benefits are granted on profits and duties to those with four components: bodywork, painting, body equipment and assembly. And what Anatoly Ivanovich suggests is that it's actually a five-year twisting of wheels, so we'll never have any domestic production. I'm reporting to you on the Committee's position. The Committee rejects, requests no support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u201	Thank you. I put to the vote amendment number 33 of the national MP Seminoga and others. To - 169. Correction not accepted. Amendment 37 of the Gorbal People's Deputy. Are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Let's move on. Amendment 41 of the Gourmet. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 47, isn't yours, Gorbal insists? No, it's not. Correction to Seminogie 50. Microphone, please. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, just like today's import duty premiums are set up both for the production of Ukrainian cars "Tavria", "Sens", and for foreign cars such as DAEWO, "Mersedes", although the first are produced by a full-scale cycle, and the second is called "open assembly". It is proposed that the import duty benefits should only be distributed for goods used in full-scale production in our country. And the benefits of paying taxes on the ground and paying the added value tax are in conflict with articles 15 and 19 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u203	The Committee did not support this amendment. This amendment is similar to that of the past. And the second. If we support this amendment in fact, it turns out again that we are destroying this law conceptually. The Committee therefore rejected the concept set out in the fourth article by adopting one concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u204	I put to the vote the amendment of the 50th National MP of Seminoga, page 14. For - 146 Correction not accepted. Amendment 51 of the Gourmet. Microphone, please. Gorbal, Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u205	It is suggested that the aid mechanism as well as the kits used in the manufacture of cars should be extended.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u206	The amendment of Vasili Nikolaevich Gorbal and the amendment of Seminoga, which had just been rejected, differed literally in a few words, the difference between them. And determine the hall. The Committee rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u207	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 51st National Deputy Gorbal and Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u208	The Committee did not support it. For -208
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u209	Not accepted. Fifty-second amendment. National Deputy Winterfell, are you insisting on her? I can't see. No, it's not. Correction 53 Seminodies. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u210	Honorary colleagues, in view of the fact that if the proposed business edition was adopted, the investment program was approved before the adoption of the law, a single order of income tax would be in place, and the enterprises that would be created after the adoption of the bill would be another. Therefore, it is suggested that the single order of taxation should be adopted for all businesses. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u211	The Committee did not support it because we are adopting a new Automobile Act. That law, even if we propose to abolish it, it will work through a court decision because people have invested. Therefore, we cannot attach this Law to the benefits that have been granted, and people have made investments. On this basis, the Committee rejected the amendment by Anatolia Ivanovich Seminogi and requested that the Chamber not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u212	I put to the vote the amendment of 53 national MPs of Seminoga and other colleagues. Here comes the vote. For 148 Not accepted. 54th Amendment. National deputy Gorbal, do you insist? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u213	It is proposed that the single order of income tax be introduced, as well as for those enterprises that will be registered after the adoption of this law. That is, order should be distributed to all businesses that will be registered, and also after the registration of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u214	This is the same amendment of Anatolia Ivanovich Seminoga. Same thing, one to the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u215	Let's vote, dear fellows. I beg you, let the vote be determined, please. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u216	Permission to comment again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u217	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u218	The proposal by Vasili Nikolaevich Gorbal and Anatolia Ivanovich Seminoga is that today we have a benefit under the existing Tax Law for those who have made the relevant investments. Hence, respectable colleagues offer the same benefit for those who are about to enter into or start proceedings today. This law is in force until 2008. The proposal in the Law is quite different: 50 per cent of domestic production, a profit tax and a benefit are paid at taxes. It was for this reason that the Committee rejected it. Hall?), please identify yourself. You've turned down a seven-foot offer, Gorbal to one another.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u219	I put to the vote the amendment of 54 national deputies Gorbal and Dobkin. For the 207th. Not accepted. Next amendment to the 55th Gorbal. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on then. The 58th Anatoly of Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that the abolition of the excise duty paid by the car manufacturers is one of the requirements of Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization, I suggest that the excise collection be paid by all: both manufacturers and importers, but the rate on new cars should be lower than on cars used. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u221	The Committee decided: Excision, which had been voted on in the first reading, should be removed from the bill at all. So we refused to regulate the excise at all, and the existing rule will work for everyone for today. That's why I didn't support the Seminoga amendment. And the interesting thing is, almost everyone agreed to it. But once again, it is required to vote in favour of this amendment. The Committee requests support for the rejection of the Excision Amendment because we exclude it completely from this Act. No excise allowance at all. It's the EU, the SOT, where we're going.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u222	I'm voting on amendment 58. You just heard the arguments. For -84. Correction not accepted. Amendment 59 of the People's Deputies of Saints. No, it doesn't. Let's move on. Amendment 61. A hunchback, please? Don't insist, all right? Are you insisting? Well, I'm voting on amendment number sixty. One minute, cancel the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u223	I'm reporting to you on the Committee's position. On the first reading of the Hall, you, distinguished colleagues, decided to impose a duty of 20 per cent. The Committee, after the letter of Mineconomy, adopted and supported the position of Minprompolitics - in fact, my personal proposal was so, but I based on what was proposed by Mineconomy, the Government - 12 per cent of the duty at all. If we now go to each position and start to regulate the duties, there is once again an imbalance. There is therefore a committee position: duty at 12, at all, or then vote. If we vote on the amendment of Gorbal and support it, we need to change everything in every position. I have an offer to refuse. Not my proposal, but the committee, and for those who speak, I report from the committee, personally ask me not to blame, to try to be neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u224	Thank you. I would like to vote on the amendment of 61 national deputies. That's how Gorbal refused! Please cancel the vote, Gorbal. He refused to say anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u225	Failure to accept the amendment will result in a 15 - percent increase in the car market.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u226	Well, I'm sorry, let me comment. Dear colleagues! Wait, one second. So you'll see, he's offering zero, we've voted in fourth. Let's just make this clear. In the fourth position, 50 per cent should be national. If you often bring in the zeros, who will produce these kits in Ukraine? I'll comment from the committee, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u227	Yes, Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! The point is that the tax is a tax to protect a domestic producer, and that's what this is about. So if zero is introduced for one enterprise and 20 percent for another, that is discrimination in the automotive sector. That's why it's suggested to enter the import duty rate for all enterprises is the same: either zero, or 13 but for all. Well, if for one enterprise zero, for another enterprise 13, it's an unacceptable form. Therefore, I propose to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u229	I am voting on the amendment of 61 National Deputies of Dobkin, Seminoga and Zimina. See page 34. - For - 217. Not supported. Amendment 62, National Deputy Winterfell, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u230	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have a proposal: or we confirm that. They're all similar amendments. It's a whole block. Either we support the Committee's decision -- 12 per cent for everything, not 20 for the first reading, but the duty is only 12 per cent, or everyone needs to actually vote. I'm talking. I didn't say right, I'm talking. Peter Alexievich, you can vote one concept of your zero for everything or 12 for everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I ask you, Vasil Petrovich, Peter Alexiovich, your honor, let's go ahead and vote on the amendments, and then see what comes out. All of it. I'm voting on amendment 62.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u232	The Committee did not support it. For - 163
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u233	Not supported. Amendment 63. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u234	The Committee did not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u235	I'm voting on amendment 63. To - 220. Not accepted. Amendment 65. Is Winter’s national MP insisting on her? Is he insisting? I'm betting on the vote of amendment 65.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u236	The Committee rejected. For - 164
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u237	Not accepted. Amendment 66. Winterfell, are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Let's move on. Amendment 68. Is the winter insisting on her? No, it's not. Yes, Amendment 70. Gorbal, Dobkin, Seminoga, do you insist on her? I'll bet the vote on Amendment 70.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u238	The Committee rejected. For - 184
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u239	No correction. Amendment 72. National Deputy Winterfell, are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. 73. Do you insist, Winterfell? No, it's not. Let's move on, dear fellows. Amendment 74 Winters again. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Amendment 75, Gorbal and other national deputies. Are you insisting on her? Are you insisting? I'll bet you an amendment 75.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u240	The Committee rejected. Z-221.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u241	Not accepted. Amendment 77. National Deputy Winterfell, do you insist? No, it's not. The 78 is yours again. No, it's not. It's your 80th. No, it's not. So you don't insist on your amendments anymore. 82, don't insist. 84, do you insist? 85? No, it's not. 86? 87, Gorbal. Please, on behalf of the group of deputies, has the word Bespali. Amendment 87.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u242	Dear colleagues! Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. I am also a coauthor of a series of rejected amendments. You can see that there's been a total rejection of a set of amendments that are aimed specifically at protecting a domestic car manufacturer, such as an equal amount of duty for all imported to put them on a level playing field. Under such conditions, unfortunately, it seems that there is no point in voting or not voting in the individual amendment, but there is a point not to support the bill, unfortunately, in general and to refer it to read again. And that's exactly what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u243	I am voting on amendment 87 by a group of national deputies. This is page fifty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u244	The Committee rejected, the Committee did not support. To -225
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u245	Not accepted. Amendment to the 90th National MP of Winterfell, do you insist on it? No! No! Amendment 91 - Igor Tarasyuk, do you insist on it? No! No! He insists, please, on the microphone. So, put her to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u246	I'm national deputy Tarasyuk. I would like to say that the increase in duties we know increases the motivation for any abuse. And that's why raising these duties is going to give the opportunity to black exports and not allow legal exports. So I insist that these duties that exist today remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u247	I'm voting on Amendment 91 of Igor Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u248	The Committee rejected. For - 170
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u249	Not accepted. Amendment 92 Winter, do you insist on it? Oh, no? No! No! Let's move on. Amendment to the 93rd Saints. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, this amendment is consistent with the Code of Budgets. The authors propose to make it or 45 days after signing, and I propose since 01.2005. Therefore, we should respect the legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u251	The Committee rejected. The Cabinet of Ministers did not support this issue, so we rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u252	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 93rd People's Chamber of Saints. To - 199. The decision is not taken. Correction of the 95th Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Amendment 97 of Seminog and Bespali. Are you insisting? Please, it's a Seminoga microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, the act of the law that we are enacting today should, in our view, be distributed to all automotive businesses irrespective of the date of approval of the investment program. So in paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions, I propose to delete the words "except for automobiles, buses and prefabricated products to those with investment programs approved by the Cabinet of Ministers until this law becomes effective. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u254	Sure. This is a matter of principle. Dear colleagues, since we are approaching the climax, I would like to remind you of almost 30 seconds of chronology. The point is that this law was in principle supported by everyone, and there were no opponents. And all those colleagues who opposed went to the committee's retreat in Zaporozhye actually agreed. But then there was no indication why the economic decree against Lucca, ZAZ Lutzka, was discriminatory. And then after that, I'm sorry, it's a waste of this law. In this case, therefore, an attempt has been made to suspend the investment programmes on which it operates. At the same Cercas bus station, Lvivska Láze, Zaze. I don't think we can do that. We'll hit on what exists. Personally, I supported, in terms of the Committee, our support was that this amendment could not be supported. But I told you the reason, although the law would be almost one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u255	I'm voting for Amendment 97 of the People's Deputy of Seminoga and Bespalogo. For - 177 Not accepted. Amendment 98 Saints. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, this amendment is designed to ensure that this law loses its discriminatory nature. Today, there are special businesses in Ukraine that have a full range of benefits, and the rest of the benefits are gone. All subjects of entrepreneurial activity should have equal conditions. Because if this amendment does not pass, it will be subjective. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u257	Can I have two words? I repeat. Even if we accept the amendments of our colleagues, now the Holy One, they are similar, the incentive law will work through the courts. This law is therefore adopted, not to discriminate against those who have invested, but to ensure that this law is in force for newly created productions, but for the elderly what has been done will work. Thank you. The Committee rejected the amendment of the Holy See.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u258	I'm voting on amendment 98 of the Holy People's Deputies. For 169. The decision is not taken. Amendment 99 of the Gourmet. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u259	This amendment also proposes that the law be extended to all enterprises, regardless of the date on which the investment program is registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u260	This is a similar amendment of the colleagues of Saints and Seminoga. It's the same thing you turned down. The Committee did not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u261	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 99 national MP Gorbal. For 211. The decision is not taken. Amendment 101 of Winter. Are you insisting? Amendment 103 of the Holy One. Dmitri Saints, are you insisting on correction? No, it doesn't. Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u262	The Committee proposes the adoption of the Act on second reading and, if there is no objection, only one amendment is actually taken into account, and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u263	I'm voting on the committee's proposal, and I'm asking for attention, on the adoption of the second reading, and as a whole, as a law, of the draft Act under number 3677 on the development of Ukraine's automotive industry. Please vote. For 231 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u264	Thank you on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u265	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on State Customs is being announced for consideration, with regard to customs from registration documents. Zushko Vasil Petrovich, your law is next. Draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, with regard to customs from registration documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, the draft law of the Zarubinsky colleague, under which the post office, which is paid by citizens for passports, is proposed to centralize from 1 January 2005 in order to establish a single system for the issuance of registration documents, i.e. passports. Therefore, the technical practical issue supported by the Government in view of the adoption of this year's budget was postponed to 1 January 2005. The Committee requests your support and any comments that have been taken into account. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u267	I'm voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt on second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft law registration number 2479 "To amend the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs" (for the moment of registration documents. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u268	Hold on, the committee's backing up. It's a technical law. For - 276
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u269	The law is passed. The draft Law on State Land cadastre is announced for consideration. Glacier Vladimir Alexiyovich, you report, right? Head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u270	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Agar Politics and Land Relations brings to your attention a draft law on the State Land cadastre in the second reading. I remind you that on the first reading, this bill was reviewed on July 9, 2003 and received 402 votes for the Ukrainian national MPs. But on June 3, 2003, a bill of 2580-1 on the State registration of immovable property rights and restrictions was also considered. These two bills are highly interlinked because they practically apply to the registration of property rights for real estate. So after the first reading, a decision was made by both committees to create a working group, and the working group considered these two bills to be mutually related and so forth. The working group was also attended by representatives of bodies, central executive bodies, who are interested in these issues. As far as the bill on the State Land Cadastre is concerned. After working with this working group, he was considered at the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. By the way, the second reading of 143 comments and suggestions by Ukrainian national deputies was made. Of these, 82 are counted, 12 are included in part, 15 are counted and 34 are rejected. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations proposes a second - reading bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u271	Let's move on to the amendments. The ninth amendment, which is rejected. Boris Bespali, please. Are you insisting? Microphone. It's about the inadmissibility before the vote. We can't right now. If you insist on the amendment, let us vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u272	I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u273	You insist, don't you? I am voting on Boris Bespalogo’s ninth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u274	The committee doesn't support it, it's pointless. For -24.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u275	Correction not accepted. Amendment 23. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u276	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Well, actually what we're looking at today, look closely: these are two big differences -- what we accepted in the first reading and what we accept today. There's two notions of real estate and land. Therefore, he is not to be considered at all today. And I'm offering to move and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u277	Amendment 23 deals with the vote of the national deputy Staszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u278	The committee does not support this, since paragraph 3 is excluded from preparation for the second reading. For - 28
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u279	Not accepted. Next up, Boris Bessalogo. Boris Jakovic, we may then vote on your proposal when it comes to inadmissibility, and we will not vote on the amendments, because you have a problem. Yes, the people's MP of Kukob insists on repairs? No, it's not. Let's move on. National MP Martinowski insists? No, it's not. Boris Bespali will speak separately. Stanislaw Staszewski, 43rd. Are you insisting on this amendment? Staszewski Stanislav’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u280	I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u281	I put to the vote the 43rd amendment of Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u282	The committee does not support this. For -55
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u283	Not accepted. 55th Amendment of the Cuckoo. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 46th. Stanislav Telisforovich, you insist. I'm betting on the 46th Amendment of Stanislaw Staszewski. For -74 The decision is not taken. 48 Amendment, Martinowski. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Let's move on. 62 revisions. Stanislaw Staszewski, do you insist? No, it's not. Yeah, yeah. Cuckoo's 73rd Amendment. Are you insisting on Kukob? No, it's not. Boris Bespaly will be. Amendment 82 of the Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u284	Thank you. Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine" These are the bound amendments of the 82nd and the 84th. And I'm asking you, they're extremely important because this is where the regional level is defined only as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the area. In the meantime, at this top level, we have more that don't belong to their composition of a city with a special status defined by law, which is the city-hero of Kiev and the city-hero of Sevastopol. They must certainly be likened to a regional level. These are not just ordinary cities that are part of areas. So I insist on taking into account the 82nd and 84th amendments that predict that Kiev and Sevastopol are administrative units at the same level as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the area. This is principled and it fits the Constitution, otherwise the law will be unconstitutional for this reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u285	On page 31, paragraph 3, the Committee rejected the fact that at the national level, information on the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol is also available.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u286	I'm voting on the amendment of the 82nd Boris Bespalogo. For -28. Not accepted. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 84 MPs of Bespalogo. We don't have to. We're filming it. 86. Boris Yakovitch, do you insist? No, it's not. Let's move on. The 92nd is yours. Unscrupulous Boris Yakovich, do you insist? No, it's not. Ninety-three. Stanislav Tellisforovich, do you insist? No, it's not. 94th. Boris Bespali. No, it's not. 95th, 96th. 97th. Cuckoo doesn't insist. 98. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich. No, it's not. 101. Boris Bespali. 102. Boris Bespali. 109 Boris Bespaly and 110 Boris Bespaly. 111 - Martinowski. 119 Boris Bespallium. No! No! No! No! No! No! 119 rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u287	No, there's all the points that are excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u288	Overruled?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u289	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u290	124 - Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich No! No! 126 - Insomnia. 140 - Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich Are you insisting? No! No!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u291	The committee's proposal to accept the second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u292	Okay. Please sit down, but before that, there is a draft decision that has been made in accordance with the Rules of the Bespaly Boris Jakovic "On Unacceptability". Please state your project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u293	Thank you. Boris Bespali "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to base the draft decree on the inadmissibility of this law on the State Land Cadastre. First of all, I want to say that this law is very important and we have to adopt it, but we don't need any law, it's a law that meets the Constitution of Ukraine and, above all, the interests of Ukrainian citizens. In this case, it's unacceptable. Some questions are questions of relevance. But there are two questions that are totally unacceptable. And, by the way, I'd like to particularly refer to the left-wing factions. So, for example, article 5 of the proposed and prepared committee of the Land Cadastre Act provides for self-financing of the cadastre. 56. The article stipulates that the financing of work from the State’s land cadastre is carried out at the expense of budgets of all levels that are normal, of legal and natural persons, as well as of other sources that are not prohibited by law. To adjust, the law itself does not clearly state how this all happens. This will take place under the law. But the dry remnant of this destructive idea is that the earth cadastre will be carried out on commercial grounds. He'll be on. State functions will be performed on commercial grounds. And this is contrary to the entire set of provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. And this is marked by our Chief Legal Authority. And what's more, I wanted to point out to you that if this law, don't give God, in such a way it's going to be put into action, it's going to make our citizens go to, well, the questions that are related to belief and are settled by the earth cadastre, they're going to pay for the services that the state is going to give them for free. And those responsible, we'll hear again, the national deputies and the Supreme Council. That is, this law will be widely applied. I don't think we can take such a sin upon ourselves that our poor citizens still pay money for what the state has to do for free. And that is certainly the basis for his inadmissibility. It's different. The Land cadastre law regulates the functions it does not have in relation to the registration of real estate rights. In this part it is totally contrary to what we have adopted in the first reading of the Law on the Judiciary, where these rights are placed on a special body governed by the Ministry of Justice. So I'm asking you to support the inadmissibility, and in any case, if it's not supported, do not vote in the second reading of the cadastre in that way. Let him go to the second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u294	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In accordance with the Rules, I will be the first to put to the vote a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre. Registration number 2613-1. I'd like you to identify yourself. For -110 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law on State Land cadastre. Registration number 2613-1. Please vote. For -56 The decision is not taken. Committee proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u295	The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations proposes that the National Deputies be re-translated to the second reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u296	I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee to re-read the draft Law on State Land cadastre. I'd like you to identify yourself. For - 174 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions is being announced for consideration. Reporter, Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u297	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, invited to attend this session, this meeting, the radio audience, our voters. The Law on State Registration and Restrictions on Real Estate Rights is proposed to be withdrawn today because it is conceptually based on the Land Inventory Act, which has not yet been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, there is no point in discussing all the amendments that have been adopted and tabled by the deputies today. Because after voting 400 votes in the first reading for the land cadastra, then the Law received a total (0 votes, or 60 votes, is a nonsensus in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u298	Dear colleagues. The committee’s proposal is to postpone the consideration of this issue in order to further develop it in view of the fact that we did not accept the previous document. Is there no objection? Thank you. Then the draft law is passed on. A draft Law on State Special Transportation Services is being announced for consideration. The reporter is the deputy head of the Kruk Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u299	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. In preparing for the second reading of this bill, our Committee on Construction, Transport, Utilities and Communications has considered the bill in full with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport, the Committee on National Security and Defence. 145 comments to the bill were received from 13 people's deputies. Almost all of them have been considered, 133 taken into account immediately and the rest of us met yesterday, and all the representatives and our Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence attended, Kruczkov attended, the Ministry of Defence attended. And almost all the comments made are taken into account in this bill. The Committee therefore requests that it be adopted on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u300	Let's do some repairs. Amendment 41 of the Gorbal People's Deputy, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Amendment 44, Pavlück, insists? No, it's not. Amendment 50, Pavlük? No, it's not. Amendment 63, Pavluque, insists? No, it's not. Amendment 64, Gorbal. Boris Bespallium, 66th. No, it's not. Amendment 76, Gorbal. Amendment 98, Peasant, insists? 99th, Peasant? No, it's not. Amendment 117, Pavlück, insists? No, it's not. Amendment 119 Gorbala? No, it's not. Amendment 145 of the Pavlück People's Deputy. Is he insisting? No, it's not. So all the corrections are taken into account, and the rest of the MPs don't insist. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, please. The committee's proposal is to accept in second reading and generally as a bill the draft Law on State Transportation Services. Please vote. For -269 The law is passed. A draft Law on Protective Activity, a second reading, is being announced for consideration. Bandur Alexander Markovich, please. Dear colleagues, I ask your permission to continue the work of the morning session for 15 minutes to review the bills on second reading. Please be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u301	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Act on Security Activities goes into a package of amendments to a number of legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Law on Protection. That's why the two bills stand in the order of the day. A second reread of 209 suggestions were submitted to the law. The absolute majority of them are included, in principle. The law is not politicized. It creates a level playing field for all entities that provide legal, security, legal services. This law lays down the legal, organizational, and economic principles for the conservation of all forms of property, giving them equal rights for both natural and legal persons. Please, I'll finish this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u302	Let's do some repairs. Amendment two Kirichenko and amendment three, amendment four - do you insist? No, it's not. The amendment of the seven Kirichenkos does not insist. Amendment of nine of Manchulenka Is he insisting? None. Amendment 11 Manchulenka is not. Amendment 12 Manchulenka is not. Boris Bespallius, 13th Amendment. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u303	Thank you. I thank the committee at all. A lot of changes are taken into account. The proposal is an indirect action, conceptual but very important. I mean, I'm offering to give up a term like "non-state security." We don't have nonstate security. There are subjects of various forms of property: state, private, and so on. All security activities are not carried out in private; they are regulated by legislation. This law alone testifies to this, and we cannot produce anything beyond legislation. Now, in education, we've already given up the "non-state form of education." Because everything is done and regulated by the state. So I'm proposing here, and in the law at large, to give up this term, which in private "lovers" is perhaps there, the temptation to play Sherlock Holmes, and the fact that he doesn't really fit in with the unset terminology, so we're also creative, we're legislators. And I'm proposing to the committee that we take this into account and give up this term of "non-State security."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u304	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u305	Boris Jakovic, if they vote now, we won't deny it. It's just really that the terminology of the form of ownership is just like the term "non-state property." We don't deny it, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u306	I'm voting on Amendment 13 of Boris Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u307	We can support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u308	Please vote. For -93 Correction not accepted. Amendment 21 of the Kosovo People's Deputy. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u309	He took it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u310	Got it, right? Let's move on. Kirichenko doesn't insist. It's the 25th Amendment. Don't insist. Kirichenko doesn't insist. Viennese, no. Manchulenko. I won't. The hair doesn't insist. '30s, Boris Bespallium. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Kirichenko doesn't insist. Boris Bespallium, 34th. Are you insisting? No, Boris? No, it's not. Manchulenka, 35th, don't insist. Manchulenko, 38, don't insist. Winsky, 40, doesn't insist. Manchulenko, 42nd, does not insist. Kirichenko, 43rd, does not insist. 44th, Manchulenko, no. Yeah, yeah. Insomnia, 52nd Amendment. Are you insisting? Who insists on repairs, dear colleagues? Please, Boris Bespali. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u311	55th Amendment. It's on page 16. Well, if the previous amendment was such a terminological one, it was very important. The restrictions on the involvement of citizens in protective activities and on the participation of citizens who are not freed from the public service, in accordance with the legislation on corruption. This is very true, but at the time of the introduction of the law, we did not have such a separate category of "ministers of local self-government". There's now a separate Service Act in the local government, it's close to the public service, but it's a completely different service, it's a completely different category of persons, it's regulated by another law and the category is no less numerous than the civil servants. So I'm just convinced that if a person was released from service in local self-government, he can't be in protective custody either. And I propose after the term "liberated civil servant" that I complement the local government official. It's a technical error.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u312	We don't deny it, Boris Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u313	Is there no objection? Roger that. Who else insists on their amendments? Please, Bezpali, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u314	I am very grateful, Alexander Markovich, for the understanding and the committee. 58th Amendment. There is also a very principled thing. The fact is that the only way to deprive a person of any kind of activity in the rule of law is by decision of the court. That's what I'm suggesting. I mean, there's a formula that can't do security work for people who are not allowed to do protective work by court decision. That's the right thing to do. Now, the formula: which is prohibited in the established law. For example, the Law on Entrepreneurship prohibits doing so. It's not just a business. In summary, I want to say that only a court can forbid a person to engage in a certain activity. So I ask that the term "in accordance with the law" be replaced by the term "in accordance with the judgment of the court." That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u315	You can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u316	Is there no objection? The committee agrees. What are the other adjustments? Who insists on unaccounted for corrections? None. Committee proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u317	Committee proposal: To enact the Act on Security Activities along with the Act on Change. In connection with the adoption of this law, the name is simply changed, and the name is added in accordance with the Protection Act in a number of bills that are included in the appendix.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u318	I'm voting on the committee's proposal for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u319	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u320	In the second reading and generally as a law, draft law registration number 1241 "On Security Activity." Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u321	Vote. For - 148 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? What a proposition to the committee, because the law will otherwise be rejected. He's already been on the replay, dear fellows, there's no point. Huh? You don't have to vote for rejection. Please make a proposal to the committee. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u322	We didn't make it, let's vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u323	I mean, who's up for asking the vote again now? Please vote. There are 164 decisions that have not been passed. Then, fellow believers, there is no need for a second law. Yes, Alexandro Markovich, then he's taking off too. This includes a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Security Activities, registration number 1242. It's off-limits. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Mikola Tomenko, please. Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u324	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. A group of authors and a committee are asking to postpone consideration of this law. We've just had a look at the National Council report on the committee. We plan to listen to the National Council report in the session hall and in a constructive discussion with the National Council to come up with an option that would be appropriate for all parties. So there is a proposal to move forward after the National Council's report to consider this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u325	Is there no objection? We're taking a look. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the pension provision of flight crews of aircraft of the Association for the Defence of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u326	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, back in 1999, in view of the level of pension insurance that existed in flight crews, the civil aviation aircraft adopted a special order of retirement for this category of Ukrainian citizens. Then, in 1999, well, for technical reasons, a certain category of airmen fell out, and the pilots of the Association for the Voluntary Promotion of the Army, Aviation, and Fleet were involved. And our colleagues have made changes to this law. They were accepted in the first reading. The committee, at its meeting, prepared and discussed the draft amendments at its meeting on December 17. Five comments and suggestions were made. All of these five comments and suggestions were taken into account in full, but in part. And that's why the committee decided to support this bill. True during this time, it is about making changes to the Pension Insurance Act and to the Law on the Congregation for a Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance. During this time, circumstances changed in some way, for the Law on State Pension Insurance has been introduced. But there was a problem, and there were people left to support. So the committee is proposing to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u327	Corrections are all taken into account. Therefore, there is reason for the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the retirement provision of flight crews of the airline of the Association for the Defence of Ukraine. Registration number 3125. For -208 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Is it the second or the second? I'm voting on a motion for a committee to re-read the draft law, registration number 3125. For -269 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Wide Yuri Volodymyrovich, please. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please note, the last document before the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u328	Yuri Shirko, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the bill is proposed by amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, to extend the status of persons with disabilities of war to persons involved in the formation of civil defence, who have become disabled as a result of diseases associated with the eradication of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. In its first reading of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision, paragraph three of which proposes that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be entrusted with the environmental policy, environmental management and elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in preparation for the second reading to present the main provisions of the bill in the form of amendments and additions to the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The implementation of the above - mentioned decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires another legislative initiative, a new bill. Thus it is proposed that changes be made to another law. The content of the proposed proposals is not in line with the name and content of the draft Law. The Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster addressed the issue of the granting of compensation and benefits to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Civil defence personnel who participated in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, like all other liquidators, receive benefits and compensation under the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. With regard to the legislative initiative to grant status to persons with disabilities of war who are involved in the formation of civil defenses that have become disabled as a result of diseases associated with the eradication of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, it cannot be regulated by the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The status of a war invalid is given by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. At the same time, I note that the absence of a conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a financial and economic justification for the size of the additional funds needed to implement the draft Law, and the sources of their coming. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, having considered the bill and the Supreme Council's decision, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine repeal the Supreme Council Order of 5 June 2003 No. 952 on the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. And the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, concerning persons with disabilities of war, registration number 3078, introduced by the People's Deputy Spyg, was rejected. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u329	Thank you, sit down, please. Committee head Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u330	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled Cibenko Dear colleagues, the problem is not as simple as it may seem. This is about members of the formation of civil defense. There were three categories of these people: one category that came to eliminate Chernobyl from military formations, the other was called through military units and was bound by military forces, but there was one unit that was formed in the Chernigiv region, which was created by an order from the Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR and performed duties to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And they ended up outside the status that those members of the civilian defense came through the military. So they did the same job, they risked the same kind of life, but because they came, not through the military, but through the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Because of the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, they didn't get into this law. I would ask, in the first reading, we supported this law, so let's sort it out and keep it at this level at least. I mean, don't cancel this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m0.u331	Dear colleagues! The point is that when we adopted the bill as a basis, it is already property of not a national deputy, not a committee, and it is property of the Supreme Council. The committee that prepared this document would have to draw up a comparative table and look at it and then give its opinion so that the Supreme Council would vote in this order: first, for approval of the bill in the second reading as a whole as a law, or, if we did not adopt it, it would have been rejected, or it would have made a draft decision on non-admissibility. Then we would put to the vote the first draft on unacceptableness. In this case, the committee replaced its decision with the will of the Supreme Council. And so I would like to say this: I would like to invite the two committees to reconsider this bill, I would like to present a table that is appropriate, and the MPs should already be able to decide and make the right decision. I'm asking you to do it by next plenary week. So, dear fellows, we've reviewed the draft laws in second reading, made the right decisions. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
