ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u1	People's deputies, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. If. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, if you want to make me worse, give me a round of applause, please. I'm asking you to calm down. Let's move our conversation to a practical river, and get to work. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[15:29:51]] There was 191 national deputies registered in the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, we have every reason to start our own. Invite the national deputies to the session room. We have every reason to start and hold meetings in accordance with the Constitution. At the same time, we need more deputies when we move on to practical decision making. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Sit down, everyone. Sit down, please. Honorable National MPs, as you know from the calendar of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are working in the constituencies this week. 156 national deputies wrote to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposing an additional meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine because they believe that an immediate incident has arisen in connection with the state’s election of the President of Ukraine on November 21 of this year. In harmony with article 2.5. 3 Rules in urgent cases between plenary sessions during the session, and this is precisely the case that we have a recess today between plenary sessions, but we are in the process of holding a session, to the reasoned request of individuals and bodies who, according to the Constitution, have the right to raise questions about the convening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not later than three days after the convening of an additional meeting of the Supreme Council. Under normal conditions, the agenda for these meetings is limited to questions that are discussed in the call proposals for such meetings. According to part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's successive sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine call on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to demand no less than a third of Ukraine's national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or at the request of the President of Ukraine. Thus, in this case, the requirement of the Constitution applies to the proposal for an additional meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would like to point out that we are acting in this case, in fact, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is the highest law. [[Applause]] I am. Dear National Deputies! Before moving to the issue, one question is raised: The situation in Ukraine in connection with the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21 this year. The Rules are proposed: within 15 minutes, the initiators will hold an additional session, then make statements from factions for up to 5 minutes, and have an hour of discussion. We agreed for two hours, but since we have a part of the Supreme Council here, I think. If it's necessary, we'll talk more. Then move on to making a decision. But before that, your honorary colleagues, how to begin, allow me to make an opening statement. Well, one minute, I haven't made the opening statement yet. Well, then. Dear National Deputies! According to established practice, if national MPs propose or insist that there be a broadcast on the street, we do it without a vote. So I'm asking the secretariat to carry out a technical commission to include a broadcast into the street. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Allow me a brief introductory word. The political situation in the country has become dangerous. We are quick to associate with widespread civil conflict and unforeseeable consequences. It is only for the person who takes the first step or causes the collision. Under such circumstances, to pretend that nothing special is happening in the country, to try to refuse, to hope that everything will suck, immorally, and criminally. Similarly, the position of supporters of the removed position of the Supreme Council deserves to be evaluated. Today, the Supreme Council may and should decide. Tomorrow, the people may make a decision for us. At best, we'll be forced to make decisions. Then I think we should always act at the right time and act in harmony with the situation. The politics, the actions of the authorities, which were short - lived, without consequences, not only shattered the nation, but also crushed society, led people to the streets. There is a threat of uncontrolled processes. Once again, I want to emphasize: there is a threat of collision. And we have to say a very strong, consolidating word here so that it doesn't happen. Who will take responsibility for this: the President-in-Office of Ministers or the Supreme Council? I think today we need to talk about shared responsibility and joint action. We need to harness our emotions, figure out what is going on in Ukraine, what reasons and what we need to do together, in order to eliminate the causes of conflict and misunderstanding in Ukrainian society, in the Ukrainian State. We need to find out for ourselves, I emphasize, so that we do not involve the world in the internal divisions that Ukraine must solve. We need to stop, prevent collisions, enter the constitutional field, enter the negotiating process, ensure a bloodless version of events in Ukraine. With this in mind, honourable national deputies, I would ask that we discuss, not from the position of the prosecutor, but from the point of view of the situation of objective approach and appropriate suggestions for the actions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once again, it is suggested that we organize our work. Information for the initiators to hold an additional meeting for up to 15 minutes. From the faction to five minutes. And then we'll talk about it. I offered an hour. We agreed that if it was full, so to speak, in the Supreme Council, it was a two-hour offer, well I think we would have had enough hours. After that, five minutes away from the faction, right? - we usually organize, and the MPs give three minutes. And then go to making a decision. Is there no objection? Please, who will speak from. Roman Zvaric, please. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The great heroic Ukrainian people! The election of the President of Ukraine took place with a massive violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. This is no longer questionable. The results published by the Central Election Commission are falsified. The scales and dimensions of this falsification are so deep and cynical that there is good reason to look at this in the context of a coup d'état. So I repeat our principled position. We claim that the elections of the President of Ukraine have led to an attempt at a coup d'état, an attempt at illegal power grabbing, a significant threat to the overthrow of the constitutional system of the state, its democratic foundations. Our conclusion is crime, crime against the Ukrainian people. All that is happening around the election of the President of Ukraine by power, we are looking exclusively at the context of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The actions of individual high officials are qualified exclusively under criminal law. In particular, article 111 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, or State treachery. In view of the above, we, the national deputies of Ukraine, have initiated the convening of an extraordinary additional meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Representatives of the "Power of the People" coalition, aware of their duty to the Ukrainian people, deeply aware of their responsibility for the fate of the Ukrainian State, for the future of our children. Commenting on the attempt at a coup d'état, the legitimate president of Ukraine is Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Or let's hold a meeting or close and then let's hold a rally. If you want a meeting of the Supreme Council, let's hold a meeting of the Supreme Council and let's get out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u4	I would also like to state with absolute responsibility, on behalf of the initiators, the convening of this additional meeting of the Supreme Council, that, for the statement that I have just made, we have all the necessary legal documents that clearly and no doubt testify to the victory in the election of President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk of Ukraine. And we would also like to state that we are never, under any circumstances, at any cost. In spite of any threat from the authorities, we will not be subject to criminal authority. We call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the only legitimate body that has a constitutional right to call itself an expression of the will of the people, to join our principled categorical position and to state that the results of the elections confirm the election of Victor Yuschenk by the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you must understand that this room has brought together a great crowd of Ukrainian national deputies who claim to be a coup d'état and who refuse to submit to evil-doing authorities. Who firmly claim that they will not accept the fraudulent methods of determining the results of the elections, we will never deviate from that position. Secondly, we claim that there is no reason to trust the Central Electoral Commission, so we demand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide to suspend the mandate of the members of the Central Electoral Commission for a term period of time and assign a new composition to the Commission by its decision. Thirdly, we call upon all law enforcement agencies, all military personnel not to carry out criminal orders and to join the rest of the people, to perform or swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, to be faithful to the Constitution of Ukraine. And admit the only legitimate president of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. Four. We turn to the governments of all the nations of the world, to the United Nations, to the OSCE, to the Council of Europe. Gentlemen, you have already stated this because of your observers that the elections in Ukraine did not meet democratic standards. You have witnessed widespread fraud by the Ukrainian authorities. So we urge you not to help the criminal authorities in Ukraine legitimize the attempt at an anti-national coup d'état by falsifying the results of the elections. We urge you to recognize Victor Yushchenk as legitimately elected President of Ukraine. And the fifth. We call on all organs of the local self-government of the state to hold extraordinary sessions of local councils and to recognize the true results of the citizens' will, which testify to Victor Yushchenk's victory in the election of the President of Ukraine. And the last. Ukrainian people, Ukrainian citizens, you have won, we have won, don't let the authorities steal your voice, join us, and we join you. Together we will win, for with us is the truth, that God is with us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we have received information from the initiators of an additional meeting of the Supreme Council. In accordance with our agreement, we are moving on to the presentations made by members of the MPs and groups. Please, Jaroslav Vasilovich, if you have any information, here is Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, listen. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I ask you to calm down. We had a conversation with Jaroslav Vasilovich. It's the final results, the summary results, the previous results, the evaluation analysis yet it doesn't have. He is simply perhaps present here out of respect for the Supreme Council. It's not possible, it's obvious. So let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Zarubinski and Onichuku. They'll both be speaking. I'm asking the heads of MPs and factions to apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u6	Dear friends. Taking this opportunity, I would like to address our fellow countrymen, representatives of political parties, authorities, national MPs. The election turn of November 21st and the vote count of the Central Electoral Commission put Ukraine on the verge of mass collisions. On the one hand, hundreds of thousands of people are filled with emotions and revolutionary moods. On the other hand, strong structures and citizens are organized by authority. Every hour of infamous vote-based delays, every squadron of special forces deployed in the center of the capital, every transport register with indignant people arriving in Kiev reduces the possibility of compromise and draws closer to conflict. The reason for public tension is the policy of power, the work of the Kuchma regime, which, in a climate of impunity instead of elections, continues the order of appointment, introduces the order of appointment for the highest position of its heir. The will of the people is ignored, overturned by gross violations of the law, resulting in the absence of Yushchenka representatives in many districts and areas of the electoral commission. This is one of the harshest violations of the Electoral Law, and this is the first reason to consider such a vote invalid. I'm very concerned that the development of the situation is pushing Ukraine into complete chaos, where any scenarios are being triggered -- Georgian, Belarusian, even Romanian. Concerned that Ukraine’s already marked split could turn into an unwarranted crisis. This will bring irreparable harm to society. No polytechnologist will be able to control the situation when the authorities openly disregard the laws, when the authorities force the opposition to be guided by revolutionary desirability. There is a danger of turning democratics into elections to defeat Ukrainian democracy. There is a danger of turning electoral war, not campaigning to defeat Ukrainian statehood. If the authorities do not face opposition in the present situation, they will not enter into a legal dialogue with them, then the street will find a relationship. It's an explosive situation. There is still a way to prevent such a danger. A chance for a normal solution to the conflict has not yet been lost. Both the political and parliamentary factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine considered and considered it necessary to immediately transfer the anticipated conflict to the legal order. To that end, we insisted on holding an urgent meeting of the Supreme Council in the establishment of a special commission of inquiry to identify the contents of manifest violations of electoral law. On the basis of the materials of the commission of inquiry and the complaints of members of the electoral campaign, the Supreme Court of Ukraine must immediately decide whether the elections are valid or invalid in the respective areas, districts and regions. We also believe that the CEC does not have the right to officially complete the elections until the conclusions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine are reached. I support the suggestion here that the Central Election Commission is not trusted, that all the violations of the law that I mentioned earlier have not been fixed, analyzed or interfered in the order of compliance with this law. Today, we should thank people for their courage and citizenship. We need to seek a solution to the truth in a legal way. And that's the kind of address I've prepared for today's performance. But I can see that power is playing marbles again, playing with fire. Today, because of its dependent deputies, the authorities want to undermine the decision of the Supreme Council, and in fact we will not be able to make any effective decision because the rightful candidates and the power-dependent candidates do not come to the meetings of the Supreme Council. What's in it? I'm asking for your attention! Please don't interrupt me, I said, and dependent on the power of deputy. [[Applause]] That's why. I'm asking for your attention. That is why we need to make choices today. The risk is enormous, the risk of making a huge mistake. We have a person who has been entrusted with the vast majority of the population with his will. I think today, based on what she's in the session room, let her use that will. If she can take responsibility. [[Applause]] . if she can assume responsibility for further legal developments. I can't say any more because I have no more argument, I am guided by the Constitution, the law and the situation in which the authorities are causing the collision, which is a great danger. Today, the streets of Kiev are dominated by the majority of one and a half million citizens who represent the whole of Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u7	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Let me finish two words, please. Let's stick with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u8	Today, council decisions are made on the spot. I understand there's going to be a labor change in Kiev now, and there's going to be 2-3 million here, but if we do that. And then the authorities sit in the bush, and that's not the first example. I remember the Crimean situation in 1994, when the Supreme Council only made a decision. The president. Then it's an initiative for who people trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u9	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Onischuku. Two and a half minutes each.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u10	Reference to the Democratic NDP platform. Dearly favored! Those words, that's the word we're addressing to everyone who's in this room and to everyone who's meeting in front of the walls of the Supreme Council: you're "good guys," you're doing good. The results of the elections showed that no pressure could affect the willful will of the people. Despite the desire of the hungry, Ukraine has voted against their dirty technologies for its future. Yet the results of the national choice may be ignored. Counterfeitors deliberately or under pressure draw the results that they can use to ensure the mass of the so-called "national expression" in Donbas, which was never dreamt of by the leaders of the "delay." In some areas, the power plant is more than 100 per cent, of which 98 per cent voted for the “right” candidate. Isn't that a "turcmenization" indicator for Ukraine? The government has crossed the line, the limit behind which the stupid forgery and total disregard for man is followed. Our silence will be an acquittal to crime. In this situation, the last thing you can do is keep your mouth shut. Not to be silent, as many of us did yesterday, not to be silent, for it is because of the silences we have today that we may lose our right to speak for a long time. Ukraine has already known the days of totalitarianism, their consequences, the distorted souls, and the mutilated fates of our parents. The authorities estimate that people who have been through mistrust have become accustomed to fear, fear of losing their jobs, pay, and become accustomed to constant fear for their lives. However, the authorities did not consider that we did not agree that fear would constantly accompany our children. It is difficult to overcome, but Ukraine is already mature enough to realize the need for this step. Given the great threat of forging elections, the democratic platform of the People's Democratic Party addresses all voters. Friends, today we need to take a step that will allow us to be proud of the fact that we are Ukrainians, not just the inhabitants of Europe's largest territory. It's just too little to vote for Ukrainian democracy, it needs to be protected, it needs to be protected so that our children have the right to choose so that every citizen feels like a host in his own country. The MPA deplatform calls: everything depends on each of us. And we are convinced that most of you will show a civil position, not a kitchen position, and will lead the authorities that the country's host is a Ukrainian, not an oligarch. For us to look proudly at the next generation, for which we will be parents and not survivors of democracy, after the fall of 2004!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u11	Mikola Oneschuk, please. Prepare Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The 2004 presidential election and what followed indicated that public authority is not and will not be owned by a single crowd and that it really belongs to the people, and the people must determine who is to carry it out in the interests of ordinary citizens. The elections gave a powerful signal, the first signal that was during the 2002 parliamentary elections, that society would not and would not be vassal in those whom it had hired to serve social interests. The choices and positions of citizens show that no one wants to live in the old way within the corridor. The elections indicated that in Ukraine — and I want to stress this — his greatness as a citizen appeared. [[Applause]] One of the huge challenges that the Supreme Council and society will have to solve is not just to establish the legal outcome of the elections, but to ensure its social and social legitimacy. You can't get legitimacy just by formally right decisions, which are or may be the decision of the Central Electoral Commission, because legitimacy is a quality, if you want, not as legal as ethical. And this is a problem that will have to be solved by all of us, including the Ukrainian Parliament. Tragedy and Calling of the Supreme Council Our Supreme Council is that we don't have, unfortunately, and we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u13	Give me 20 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u14	It's the Central Election Commission. We can't cancel the election, but I hope that everything that is happening today, including our meetings, will be made and called by both CEC and citizens before such a decision that reflects the will of the people is made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u15	Mikhailo Gladys invites you to the presentation. Prepare Sergey Bichkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The glorious people of Ukraine! I will say without exaggeration that not only all Ukrainian citizens but also the world community are paying attention to today’s session. The people look forward, including under the walls of Parliament, to what the Supreme Council will say, which will take its place. For Ukrainian Parliamentarianism in general, and for each of us in particular, it is a serious test, a test of democracy, honesty and justice. In terms of legislative provisions, the Supreme Council, for its part, has done everything possible or to prevent the development of events under such a scenario from repeating those violations that took place in the first round of voting. I would like to remind you that the amendments to the law on resilient vouchers have been voted on several occasions by the parliamentary factions, including the factions of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. And the last serious warning signal is a statement by the Chief of the Supreme Council a few days before the election. But once again, we surprised Europe and the world with our unprecedented electoral know-how, and we applied it in an undisclosed way, not because of the ignorance of the electoral mechanisms, but because of the frankness, insolence and cynicism of millions of people. This was the most exciting and indignant of our voters and was surprising to international observers. Is it not clear from the first round that the people will no longer accept inaccuracies in the voter lists and manipulations with ballot papers and hard-core tickets, and the pressure to vote for a candidate, the blocking of the work of election committees and so on? I'm sorry. The responsibility for organizing the electoral process, which is, according to the law on the election of the CWC and the executive power, has done everything possible or a violation in the first round of elections not only to repeat, but also to give even greater scales. Finally, today we have a social-political collapse, a troubled and inadequate environment in a society that can, every political force that has participated in the elections uses it in its own way, and it's very sad that in this situation, once again, the people have become a hostage, engaged in a long-standing struggle on the ground of various problems, in many cases, created artificially. The election seemed to pass, all questions about whether the other candidate had a clear, concrete victory, but the people got what they didn't want. Part of it, dear friends, has lost confidence in both the political forces and the public, and it is dangerous, especially for the development of a democratic society, for the image of our country in the international arena, because that huge array of negatives, which has been accumulated in two dozen elections, does not add authority to Ukraine, but rather puts it in a number of countries with a weakly developed democracy. So our faction's position is clear firstly, we support the proposal for a CBC mistrust. It's different. [[Applause]] Secondly, we are in favour of creating a special parliamentary commission to investigate the facts of the mass violations in the election of the President of Ukraine, which is the shortest term. And thirdly, we can't stay away from what's happening today in society. The Supreme Council has to say its word about assessing the election of some local authorities and central authorities, we cannot allow staining the country's honour, ignoring the citizens' right to be faithful to the service we swore in this Hall. The people will win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u17	Sergey Bitchkov, Deputity Group Center, prepare for the Yulia Tymoshenko block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u18	The distinguished Ukrainian people, the distinguished Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the distinguished colleagues, the distinguished President of Ukraine, the members of the deputy group "Centre", conscious of their responsibility for preserving stability and harmony in the state, peace and tranquillity on the country's home land, the fulfilment of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine in everyday public life, the provision of a decent place for our country among the international community, is considered necessary to state the following. We, like all the honest people of Ukraine, are deeply outraged by the numerous facts of the laudable denial by the executive power of the universally acceptable foundations of democracy, of effective legislation during the presidential election campaign. Working in the electoral districts of the Republic of Crimea, Dnipropetrovsk and Mikolayevsk, Sumsko, Odessk and other areas of Ukraine, as thousands of ordinary citizens we have witnessed a well-organized system of total falsification with clearly defined elements of a criminal nature. First of all, it is related to the planned improper performance of its duties by members of different levels of election boards, namely: the vacchanization of the use of resilient vouchers, which could simply be purchased at individual locations, followed by a special vote of up to 18 times, the deliberate failure of ballots to electorate is dominated by young people who had a sympathy for the popular candidate, manipulation of ballots when going to the polling station, inclusion in lists of so-called dead souls, conscious destruction of the number of voters and others. What are many obstacles to the opposition’s organization of electoral control? After each of these points, we are ready to provide actual materials. We have the right to claim the planned use by the headquarters of a candidate in criminal matters for the implementation of dirty electoral technologies. The analysis of facts, violations and falsifications allows for the argument that they took place under patronage, and often with the direct participation of administrations and public administrations that were part of Janukovic's technology headquarters. This was done with the blessing of the guarantor of the Constitution, who refused to sign the Law adopted by the Supreme Council, and gave passive consent to the will of his people against it. In doing so, the authorities showed that if it loses, they are willing to uphold the law in order to preserve their positions, ready to destroy their people. That is how we understand the statements made today by some of the leaders of the power structures. All of this objectively formed a mistrust of the Central Electoral Commission, which, at the expense of its work, closed the public’s eyes on the abuse of a candidate from the media, the numerous facts of the pressure and intimidation of the electorate. In our view, prior to the completion of the investigation, both the President and the Prime Minister, whether or not related to the conflict of power with the people, should be declared on their own, giving their powers to the sole legitimate head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We refer to the local councillors of all levels to initiate the holding of out-of-order sessions, as your colleagues have done in most parts of Ukraine. And to give a legal assessment of the numerous facts of counterfeiting and pressure on the electorate. Only in this way can you avoid the consequences, and each one of you preserve the honor and respect of the Ukrainian people, which you have declared so often and without reservation. We, the MPs of the Centre, claim that we have always stayed with our people and are ready to go with them to the full victory of justice. We are a proud and free nation. Our president is Yushchenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u19	From Julia Timoshenko’s block to the presentation, Julia Timoshenko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u20	Julia Timoshenko. [[Applause]] Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, distinguished diplomats, journalists, all present in the session room. I know that many people who are standing next to the Supreme Council don't know what's going on in the Supreme Council Hall right now. And we need to start by having real representatives of the people sitting in Parliament today. And the real representatives of the people today are 190 people's deputies, along with the Socialist Party, the Agrarian Party, the NDP, our Ukraine, the bloc I lead, and the Centr faction, as well as honest non-factional deputies. [[Applause]] I, my dear friends, would like to express my special thanks to the Ukrainian people, from the Parliament of Ukraine to the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Lithuania, for being with the people today!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u21	I beg of you, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u22	In particular, I would like to express my deep thanks to the mayor of Kiev, Alexander Omelchenko, who today has practically taken the side of the Chinese and the people's president of Ukraine. Many local councils, the council of the districts today have acknowledged the legitimate president of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. But you and I see that there are no traitors in the Supreme Council to the people of Ukraine, there are no people who have never expressed the interests of the people: these are all pervasive factions, all those people who today make up criminality in Ukraine, and unfortunately there is no faction of Communists! And I can say that the Supreme Council is in this composition, unfortunately, the decision can't be made today -- there's no 226th. And so the Supreme Council must be dissolved as soon as it arrives and takes over its office by the national president of Ukraine! [[Applause]] And it's made up of honest national MPs who will finally express the interests of the people. And now we have to realize with you that in the Supreme Council we are announcing the People's President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, who is coming to power and who is starting to serve as President in Ukraine today. And the impostors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! VOICES FROM THE PLACE. Yuchenko! Yuchenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u24	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Last I ask you, if we're going to a rally, please hold a rally. Let's wrap up the meetings of the Supreme Council, close, hold a rally. And we agreed that we would be holding meetings of the Supreme Council, not a rally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u26	The second thing we have to do with you is to express now the mistrust of the Central Electoral Commission, which has taken the lead in crime with its head, Sergey Kiwalov, and which today plans to declare a criminal decision that Janukovic would be the President of Ukraine on the basis of falsification. We don't need such a Central Electoral Commission. And I think that the people of Ukraine must demand of the Supreme Council a decision to remove the Central Electoral Commission and create a new composition from those people who, by their profession and by their state of honesty and integrity, must declare president at the level of Victor Andryovich Yashchenka's CBC. And I want to ask the people of Ukraine right now to demand that we do so from the Supreme Council and that we do not leave here until such a decision is made. And last of all, dear friends, we have a real strong Ukrainian nation born in Ukraine today, a Ukrainian nation that is no longer fragmented, undissolved, today millions of people who stand near Parliament, that is our hope and support, that is, those people who will bring the real President to power. And that's why I urge you all to just take power in your own hands. No one has to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u27	Thank you. 10 seconds, please finish, let's just not make calls.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u28	No negotiations with the criminal authorities, just taking them out of the official corridors and announcing a new government, a new president, and a new Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u29	I ask the honourable national deputies not to resort to calls that are, in fact, illegal. Let us demonstrate that we are acting in accordance with the Constitution and the laws in force. Let's stick to this rule. The faction of "Our Ukraine" is asking to move on. We're not ready for the show yet. Then we move on to the speeches of the National Deputies. We agreed to take an hour off. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Melniczuk. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, we're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable People’s Deputies, the noble, long - suffering Ukrainian people! It's a shame that the elections that were planned as a holiday of democracy were conducted in this way, according to the Kuchmow Medvedchuk-Kuchmow script, to turn Ukraine into a "urkaine." The Ukrainian people have shown that this is impossible. I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you to honor the moment of silence of an honest, decent militiaman, Captain of the Petar Potejin militia, who was killed at six o'clock in the morning by 163 constituency in District 202, who fought to the last, guarding the premises with electoral documentation. The kingdom of the heavens is upon him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u31	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! We have this law on the election of the President of Ukraine. You and I have a Constitution where the highest authority is recognized by the people who are now standing in the areas that are now being turned off television, which is now being forced to take hard-core certificates and vouchers, which were taken in 70-80 cars to Kiev and other regions that are now being forced to move here and look at their fellow citizens through the intersections of targets. It is now said that Ukraine has split east and west. No, I didn't. She's more than ever. A small example. The city of Shakhtarsk, Donetsk. 100,000 citizens live on everything. There, more than 2,000 men from only two mines voted for Victor Yushchenk. And the result is four votes. At 17 o'clock, there were no ballots, because they voted five to six times on hard-boiled certificates. Who will tell me that Donetsk or Lugansk are against a normal rich Ukraine?Oh, my God! That's not true. In Lugansk, too, everything was broken. Opposition newspapers were delayed. I was here, and then they threw everyone out of the neighborhood like a kitten. In front of the international community. That is why the people must now say the word. Our president is Victor Yushchenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u33	Michael Melniczuk, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u34	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Brave Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Victory for the people! The people elected Yushchenka President. Given the votes cast in the 2002 elections for the national deputies here, most are in this room, not outside the hall! And there are legitimate 250 votes, and we have to accept it because the authorities of those other deputies raped and pushed them into the majority that today does not want to work for the people. And let the people know that most people today are in the hall, not outside the hall, and they conclude from this. As secretary of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council, which has conducted monitoring of compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, I want to personally, I have no right to do this from the Temporary Commission, to declare that the authorities raped their own people because they have experience of how to do this, they have experienced coaches, especially on the team, how to do this, how to rape their own people. I promised the electorate of the village of Toporovka Novoselické district to tell from the high rostrum of parliament, as the law-enforcement authorities of the Montenegrin region for four hours did not allow three thousand voters to vote for Viktor Andrivovich as the national president, because there 90 percent of the people support him. I think this has happened all over Ukraine. The creation of a temporary commission of inquiry will confirm this. I would now like to address you, Your Honor, Victor Andryovich. Dear Mr. Kostenko, Mr. Ivane Stepanovich, I address Viktor Andriovich. Dear Victor Andryovich! I'm turning to all the socialists, the Socialist Party supporters who supported it. Victor Andryovich, your place is not there, your place is there, Victor Andryovich. Please. You are elected by the people of the President and your place there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u35	Mikhail Vasilovich, please don't provoke us to make a deal with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u36	I'm not provoking you. I'm speaking. I'd like you to take this place, but it's legitimate. I think it's going to happen very soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! Andrew School is invited to the presentation. I want to ask you again. We are here to discuss the situation that took place in connection with the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21. Let's talk about it, let's not turn it into a rally. Please. Prepare Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u38	Andrew School, Timoshenko Cell Block. First of all, I'd like to address the part of the Ukrainian people that's gathered under the walls of Parliament, and I know how hard it is to expect the unknown, I know how hard it is to stand here, leaving everything in my heart, hoping for what's going to happen here, talking to the national MPs, to you with us blindfolded, ears and hearts of millions of Ukrainians, and not only those millions whose voices have been counted in the elections, but also millions of those whose voices have been stolen, whose voices have been stolen by the criminal government. I call you to your honor, your conscience and your mind, what we must and should, after all, determine what to do with the Central Election Commission. The absolute fact is that she violated her legitimacy by confirming that in the 98th. 99% of the ballots won 3%-Janukovich. This is not true for many reasons, but the main thing is that even so far no decision has been made and there are four honest and decent members of the Central Electoral Commission who have refused to sign the false protocol. I want to go first to all those who have not yet come to the streets, to all those who are still gathering and not doing anything, remember: we have no right to hide in the cities, in the woods, in the cellars, our place here in Ukraine, our place in the country, it belongs to the Ukrainian people, let them hide from us, let them hide from the wrath of the Ukrainian Femid, from the wrath of the Ukrainian people. The president of Ukraine went to Petersburg, the most responsible, at the most difficult time for his country, and went to the city of the Russian revolution, hiding from the Ukrainian people. I want to assure both him and all those who will give him these words, that he is not hiding from responsibility, because now he has to give his word, if he has any opinion, he has to say it now, addressing millions of his fellow citizens, who are now gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council, who are gathered in Lviv and Lugansk. I'll tell you that the rally that was held in Dnipropetrovsk, the students were driven to Janukovitch's support for literally three minutes, and this rally went into a rally of support for Victor Yushchenk. The young people chose the president. The Ukrainian people chose the President. And we have no right to keep the Ukrainian people waiting. He expects only one thing from us: the proclamation here in this Hall of Law and the legitimate President Victor Yushchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, two clarifications, as we see Levko Grigorovitch. First. The president of Ukraine is in Kiev. I'd ask that we have information if it's accurate. And the second. I'd like you not to provoke any illegal decisions. The President of Ukraine will be proclaimed when a decision is made that must be made in accordance with applicable laws. And let's not get provoked. You want provocation without me. I'd like to tell you once again, Your Honor, and not give any further grounds for accusing the Supreme Council. If we want to be the Supreme Council, let's be the Supreme Council. Please, Levko Grigorovitch, Yuli Block Timoshenko. Prepare Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u40	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block Honourable MPs, distinguished voters, respected Ukrainians. All our societies have come to a conflict that cannot be solved. Our society is divided: on the one hand there is criminal, anti - Ukrainian, anti - Ukrainian authority, on the other hand there is a nation that has felt power. He felt that he was bearing sovereignty. He felt that he could appoint and impose authority. And right now, the moment has come when the people who felt responsible for their national destiny have the chance to remove the power that killed Ukraine for 13 years and brought it to such a state, as if a new Tatar-Mongol invasion had swept through Ukraine. So, as a result of that situation, I think that this conflict must be solved, not solved. There are two ways to resolve a conflict. The first way is the way it was applied in Romania. And our people, who are hundreds of thousands here in Kiev on Gruszewski Street, are ready for the Romanian version. However, we MPs who are responsible for the nation’s destiny are looking for another way to resolve this conflict. And that's why I'm proposing, first of all, to express my mistrust to the Central Electoral Commission. The other one. Not to acknowledge the figures that the Central Election Commission gave us as a result of counterfeiting. Third. Victor Yushchenka’s headquarters, in parallel, proved beyond a doubt that the people spoke for Victor Yushchenk. Next. Because Victor Yushchenko is the people of the elected president, I propose to the Supreme Council to take the oath of the new president here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u41	Turn off the microphone, please. I'm telling you again, you're going to be making provocations, saying them without me. Leukko Grigorovich, you are an experienced man. Let's get the other side to announce another president. Let's have the two presidents in Ukraine right now. I'm asking you, let's essentially speak out. You want to provoke, then let's do it without me. I'm asking you again. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u42	I believe that our Supreme Council should now decide not to leave the Hall and work until Victor Yushchenko takes an oath and actually joins in the exercise of presidential powers. I support the proposals made by the National Council of the Supreme Council of Zvaric. Or can a nation that has reached a state like that of today endure further lawlessness and indecisiveness. I call for decisive action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Anatoly Matvienko, please. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues, I think that all of us today have reason to rejoice and to sincerely welcome everyone gathered by the cities and villages of Ukraine, everyone gathered today by our capital of Kiev with a great victory, because we really have an act of birth of the Ukrainian people. And to support them, and to sincerely bow down to them, and to say, this is the great victory of everyone who stands up from their knees today, this is the great victory of all of us, this is the great victory of Ukraine! I just, more faithfully, came back from Hark today. I want to pass it on to all of them. Who came to Kiev today to find out that there's a lot of people's night in Kharkiv for which there's more than 50,000. A man. Kharkiv is in solidarity with us today. Kharkiv is Ukraine! Kharkiv is responsible for Ukraine! [[Applause]] Kharkiv is not sick, a sick harkian authority that is trying to save itself today! Third. Dear friends, we need to understand what is happening today. We've written two scenarios: the first scenario, under any circumstances, truths and lies, to leave the criminal authority and bring Yanukovic to the presidency. And they did it brutally, they did it cynically, and we're all witnesses, which eventually led people out. But that didn't happen. The people didn't give it to him! Then the second scenario that they also want to implement is to introduce a state of emergency, and you can see what's happening today with the force. It's already been said that Russian Special Forces have been invited by President Kuchma today. I think they all need to know - and no one will give them that! There is a script written by the people themselves. The people today, using the fifth article of the Constitution, are the only source of authority, and today the people decide who to be president, and he has decided that he has elected President Viktor Yushchenko in public! And we have today on the Supreme Council to understand that this is not a regular meeting. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, don't be offended, this is a solemn meeting! And 104 articles of the Constitution today must be read by Victor Yushchenko at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u45	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u46	The noble people of Ukraine, the high-ranking national deputies, the high-ranking head! Yesterday at a 300-thousand rally, I stressed that the most important purchase we've had in the last 13 years was Ukraine's acquisition of its independence. I said yesterday, and I say today from this high rostrum: during all these 13 years of independence, all the honest people of Ukraine, the real patriots, day after day, have been cementing the unity of all the Ukrainian lands. Think back to the Crimean situation in the early and mid-1990s: crazy political separatism, trying to argue ethnically with the people of Crimea. It was then that we all put forth great effort to escape the division of Ukraine or, as in the case of Crimea, to separate some part of it. Many of you, today's Ukrainian politicians, know how much effort has been made by the political leaders of Crimean Tatars and, above all, the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. We have come from the fact that any problems that exist in the Ukrainian state, including those complex problems that are the result of our recent totalitarian past, such as deportation and the return of the Crimean Tatar people, must be solved within the limits of the targeting and unity of the Ukrainian state. But it is a pity that in these elections, not the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General of Ukraine paid no attention to the Sabbath that was carried out by the local authorities. parts of the local authorities, by officials, and especially in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I want to say today that the most unacceptable thing about this election campaign was that those who broke into power, criminality, they put, as they say, on top of everything, and above all the fate of the Ukrainian State. They didn't care what happens to Crimea, Odessa, Nicholas, which will be further from Ukraine. The main thing for them was to sit on the throne that they had determined for themselves. And I want to end by saying that those hundreds of thousands of people who were on the streets of Kiev yesterday and today are demanding only one: that we confirm the choice made by the Ukrainian people to establish such a mechanism that would allow the legitimately elected President Viktor Andriovich Yashchenkov to enter his mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u47	Mikola Rudzkowski is transferring the right to speak to Yuri Lucenka, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the distinguished radio listeners, the distinguished Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I immediately apologize for my vote, but I speak not only as a deputy, not only as a socialist, but as a person who led a million-dollar column, which is now from the KPC to the Supreme Council and from it to the stadium and to the area of Independence. Dear friends, there are hundreds of thousands of people on the streets, I think, more than a million people. These people came here not to support Yashchenk -- they came to support their freedom, they came because they wanted a new country. Dear friends, many of you were here in 1991. Old age, independence veterans say there were fewer people at the time. But not in the number of cases -- the point is that this is the second step that can give Ukraine the will. I’m critical of all politicians, and I’m critical of Viktor Andriyovich in particular. Nevertheless, he is today the only person who can lead Ukraine, not back, but forward. And only he can now, here, today accept this great, responsible load. My second address, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, two years of the Supreme Council. You have shown that a person can become free, honest, and decent. You did it. That's what I'm telling you, the man who misrepresented you and who always fought the Kuchma. Today you, Yushchenko and all MPs, and those millions of people who are standing around the Supreme Council, together have to take a step towards freedom. It's not someone's victory over someone. This is the victory of all of Ukraine. And I would very much ask my colleagues from "Our Ukraine" to step two minutes away from your leader and let him consult with God and with his conscience. Before millions of Ukrainians, he said that he knew his duty and would fulfill it. That's the only thing keeping me in this rostrum and in this room. Otherwise I'll go where the authorities are, and she's on the street today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u49	Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare John the Rabbit. Is there a Sergey Sobolev? Is it? Please, Sergey Sobolev. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! All of us had been tried west and east. I want to start with why now tens of thousands of guards have come out on the street of Zaporozhye. Because they didn't find themselves among those who voted for Victor Yushchenk. Because their will has been corrupted by the authorities of Yanukovich. That is why today the guards joined the Chinese and declared that the elections in Ukraine had taken place! In Ukraine, the person elected legitimately, the person elected by the President of Ukraine, is Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko. And a dot. The other one. Why are the necessary votes now being gathered in the extreme south of Ukraine in Berdjansk to convene an extraordinary session of the city of Berdjansk? Because the Berdjansk city deputies are ready to make a legitimate decision. Ukraine is the only one! Ukraine United! Today, the West and the East, the South and the Center, the best representatives of the Ukrainian people, who are delegated by delegations to the city centre of Kiev, millions and millions of people know one thing. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we're not saving ourselves, we're saving you, we're saving democracy, because if we don't save democracy in this room today, tomorrow we're throwing millions of people at the bottom of the bandits who are smashing them with tanks and waterworks. That can't happen. Ukraine cannot be without legitimate authority. A representative of the Central Electoral Commission is present. Thank you, Mr. Davidovich, for your principled position. You, I'm sure as no one, know what happened in these elections. And it is in your presence that the celebration of democracy should take place. That's why I'm addressing all of you. We now have a unique moment: or we will now confirm that Ukraine has the only legitimate legal authority -- the Supreme Council in charge of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Litwin. We must confirm that there is another legal body in Ukraine, an organ of the President's Administration and the President of Ukraine himself, who must protect the people of Ukraine. That's why I'm addressing all of you. We've got hours left. Medvedchuk's plan is to split the people in half, launch demonstrations and establish a dictatorship here. I'm sure no one wants it, not even Kuchma, who understands it, who needs to be able to transfer authority legitimately, who needs to be able to recognize it - Yushchenko won and the authorities have to be transferred to the legitimate hall - in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u51	The word is John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Prepare Michael Kosiwa.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! What are we concerned about? What are some of the concerns of Ukrainian citizens? What's the point? On October 31 and November 21, Victor Yushchenko won an unreserved victory. But the old, yet active authority, did not recognize the will of the people and organized a coup d'état, the flaw falsified the results of the elections and I want in contravention of the truth, the Constitution of Ukraine, the interests of the people, to declare and appoint the President of Ukraine Yanukovich, who lost the elections, the scale of counterfeiting colossal, this falsification was carried out by the Government of Ukraine started with Yanukovitch, President of Ukraine, Kuchma proved unable to fulfil his duties as a guarantor of the Constitution to respect the legality of the rights and freedoms of the citizens of the rule of law. Prime Minister Janukovic, contrary to the Constitution, has brought the entire system of executive authorities into his own electoral company, which has led to a sharp opposition in the environment of Ukrainian society, a sharp deterioration in the economic situation in the state. Instead of monitoring the rule of law, the Ukrainian procurator’s office, particularly the electorate, has become a structure of political pressure on citizens and opposition. Because how can you estimate the actions of the prosecutor of the Drabovsky district of Cherka district of Shevchenk, who didn't move his finger to stop the faked carousel from being reassuranced, and he knew about it because I was in his office. That's why I, the honourable national deputies, propose to resign the government. Secondly, because the CEVC did not organise compliance with the legislation, the CVC acts against the law, that it publishes protocols that are pre-false, for example, in my 200th constituency, where the territorial commission has turned the results for Yushchenko to Janukovič and these protocols go to CVC and they publish them, so the CVC knows what it's doing. It's an organ that fakes, so the C.I.V.C. has to resign. I urge the Council of All Levels to recognize Yushchenka as President of Ukraine, President of Ukraine Kuchma has failed to ensure respect for human and civil rights and freedoms in the preparation and conduct of elections by the President of Ukraine. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we must take an oath from the lawfully elected President Victor Yushchenk to order this state to have order. I want to tell you that people are outraged all over Ukraine, it's not just here 1.5 million people, all over Ukraine are now manifesting 10 million people, these people today for the unity of the state, for the well-being. So I want to thank the students, I want to thank the schoolchildren, all those who went out today to defend their choices, democracy and freedom. Freedom can't be stopped. Democracy cannot be stopped. Therefore, let us act decisively for the benefit of our people and Ukraine’s future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u53	Thank you. All I'd ask is respectable colleagues not to talk about schoolboys. We didn't have enough schoolchildren to come to defend democracy. Please, Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u54	Dear compatriots, since there's a total of 191 people's constituents here, we can't make a formal decision. That's why I want to address you first. According to part two of article 34 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the most fundamental right of our citizens is the right to participate in the administration of state affairs, the right to choose and be elected to the authorities of the state. If this fundamental constitutional right is violated, Ukrainian citizens have the right to defend their rights in accordance with part five of article 55 of the Constitution against any unlawful remedy. However, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 36, provides for the use of means of defence. Action taken to protect the guaranteed freedoms of a person who protects himself, as well as the public interest and interests of the State, is considered a necessary defence. We have a socially dangerous attack today in front of all of us, a violation of the people's right to choose their President. The person who committed this socially dangerous attack could be any public official, including the Prime Minister, the head of CEC, the Attorney-General. In such a situation, it is perfectly legitimate to consider the authority established by the revolution, which expresses the national will of the people. Hitler came to power in a far more legitimate, incomparably legitimate way than he wanted to come to power by Yanukovich. However, this regime, set up by him, was all the way criminal in front of his own people and in front of mankind. The Bandit authorities, who used to rape and now want to rape their own people, are not legitimate. It has to be removed by any means necessary. I'd like these to be legitimate. However, I have an idea of John Frank's words: "And if a war of blood is needed, it will not be ours."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u55	Vladimir Yavorowski is transferring the right to speak to Sergey Shevchuk. Is that what I'm saying? Ah, there's Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u56	Society. In Kirovgrad, where the election campaign was conducted by criminal authorities, and where Yushchenko won Yanukovich by 24,000 votes, I lost my vote. That's why I'm handing it over to the representative of our faction, Yuri Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected citizen of Ukraine. On November 21, 2004, 76.77 voters in Ukraine voted on the lists. This was reported by a website of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine at 21 hours. CEVC is now reporting on the vote of 80.36 voters. The main increase took place in the morning at the expense of the Donetsk Region, where the number of voters reportedly voting from 21 to 22 November increased from 74.3 to 8.8 p.m. to 96.65 p.m. or 843 p.m. persons. On October 31, 75.62 percent of voters took part in the elections in Lugansk. On November 21st, 89.53 thousand were recorded. Percentage or 282,000. more people. 71.83 percent of voters took part in the October 31st elections in Kharkiv. On November 21st, 77.7 percent of voters or 138 thousand were registered. more people. The "Power of the People" coalition considers the vote in Donetské, Lugansk, Kharkiv regions to be forged and does not accept a vote of 1 million,262 thousand. the electorate, as well as the Supreme Court of Ukraine, has applied for immediate consideration of the cancellation of the results of the elections in these areas. In the Shakhtar-Harciz constituency 60, division 89, there were 3,000 votes. 437 men: 1,411 Janukovič, 5 for Yushchenka, 2021 were found invalid. The electronic vote count was carried out by the central headquarters of the presidential candidate Victor Yushchenka. The voter turnout in Lugansk, Kharkiv is calculated at the level of the first round. In Donetsk, the CTC is on the level immediately after the elections are over. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The result is: Presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko "for" - 13 million 825 thousand. 851 votes or 48, 47 percent. Presidential candidate Janukovic: 13 million 507,000. 125 votes or 47.35. Yushchenka has plus 318 grand. 726 votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u58	Yes, Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Dear National Deputies! One minute, we need to consult, we haven't heard from three factions yet. So maybe if you're ready after a colleague of Singer's from "Our Ukraine," then Desert Tenko asks you to step out of the faction, let's do it, too. Then Adam Ivanovich, we will continue the discussion. Is there no objection? That's how. Please. We need to act in a normal way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin First of all, from this high rostrum, I would like to express my sincere thanks to my countrymen for giving more than 70 percent of the votes to the presidential candidate Victor Yushchenk. I'd like to report to the general public that in the city of Hmelnicki, in the district center, only one 104th district brought victory to Viktor Yanukovic. What is this area, I report: And it seems to me that this trend, the trend of such victory, clearly appeared on the night of November 21st to 22nd this year. That is why I would like to make it clear that the central electoral commission and, personally, Professor Kiwalov, who does not perform his functions today, I believe that we are obliged to do more than just express our mistrust to the Central Electoral Commission. The second thing I'd like to pay attention to is the continuation of what we've been talking about. If we analyze the pre-election campaign of the presidential candidate, you and I, without any specialists, will conclude that by the beginning of September, Victor Yanukovic had to be removed from the Presidential Election Act, even if it was overrun by the electoral fund. This is not what the Central Election Commission did. And that's another argument in favor of her having to express her mistrust. In due course today, we are obliged to make a number of observations with you regarding the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act and the fact that it has certain calculations. And I would like to, and I think that in the future, we're going to exclude TV from agitation, and in the future, we're going to rule out the use of authority. Because it's for Saturday or Sunday's work trips, like we did in Hmelnicke County?Oh, my God! That's why I would like to say today, or more precisely, to speak out for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council and to take a clear look at what has been going on for the last 90 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u60	From "Our Ukraine" to "Victor Yushchenko" is invited. Please. Get ready for the Desert. Sit down, please! Sit down, dear fellows, because time is coming. Five minutes to make a statement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u61	The heroic Ukrainian people, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament! I am convinced that freedom of choice is at the centre of all human freedoms. Ukraine today stands at the threshold of civil conflict. In this room, there is one question in millions of homes: who is the author of this conflict, who should be responsible for the fact that today my people, I repeat, stand one step away from dramatic events. I can tell my version of why the militia captain died, why he died, burned himself up, Ruslan Aslanov. All of this refers to the Ukrainian electoral campaign, my friends! Is it worth the blood? What is the reason why we have people dying in the political field today? Someone's going to be uncomfortable with that. But I'm sorry, I have to say this right now, someone may not like my face, but this is the face of Ukraine. I'm happy it's still like this. Why do we pay such a price? What is happening to us? Who is to blame for this process? I would like to give you a few points of view. I'll only be happy if they share any of you. Kuchma Leonid Danilovich. This is the first person who has failed to act as a guarantor because today he has not protected the right of voters, the holy right that is at the centre of human freedoms, and his unique position is the essence of how he will protect human right to choose. The other one. Janukovich Viktor Fedorovich. The head of government who responds starts with a list of polling stations, ending. Let's go back to the list. Who will be responsible for the fact that 3 million Ukrainians on October 31st were unable to make a political choice. Who? Prime Minister. I'm sure in any civilized country, if such preparations were to be made for the elections, on the second day the Prime Minister would be retired. He bewitched the nation. Look at the question of appearance. Who created magic like Igor Kio after 20? The government. Government! Who organized the vote at home? The government. Isn't that a shame, my friends, when we have an area today where 35 percent, for example, of the Mikolai region voted at home, 35 percent, friends. 60 percent of the voters in the Mikolai region voted on these two regimes. Isn't it clear that this is a forgery? And I'm addressing you now. Friends, there are people in this room who have two loaves of bread in both hands. One thing is required of us is for our conscience to speak right now. If it's a fake, if it's an illegal act of the Yanukovich-Kuchami government, it's our duty to stop it from costing us, because millions of people are behind us. Or what's going on at the polling stations. I'm going to give you one little example, it offends us like people who breathe Ukrainian air today. Donetsk has 2,000, 20 plots. Do you know how many of my representatives were in this area? Please guess on the boards. 19. And we're saying that these are elections, that these are equally represented both sides? It's a crime. And this crime was committed by Yanukovich Viktor Fedorovich and the government he is leading. He didn't want to see fair elections, he was glaring the nation, he was making administrative pressure. Third. I can't say I was away from this process and the Central Election Commission. When it's 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u62	Kirilenko's handing over the right to speak. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u63	When the appearance changes after 20 hours from 20 hours to 21 November according to CBC data. My friends, pay attention. From 76.6 percent to 80.36 percent. Who should be responsible for this, my friends? My friends from CBC, you swore an oath, you took an oath, you had a comfortable life, why you didn't do your basic duty. Note the electronic system when, after voting 31, the entire array of electronic data went not to the CBC server, but to the server to Yanuković and Medvedczuk. There were manipulations, groupings, and then in mode two they were transferred to the CBC server. Friends, that's how it's done in Ukraine. We're talking about free choice. And so, dear friends, the "Power of the People" coalition considers voting in Odessa, Lugansk, Kharkiv, Mikolaiiv, Suma regions falsified. Donetsk I can repeat twice, twice, I repeated it. We do not recognize voting in these areas for more than one and a half million voters. We appeal to the Supreme Court of Ukraine for immediate consideration of the issue of cancelling the results of the elections in these areas. Dear friends, I understand that I must say the following sentence, which I will say, I will say with pride. We have two choices to answer the conflict that we've been drawn into, or we're going to answer this House, and I want him to do it with all my heart, or the answer will be the street. There are very complex predictions, very difficult to guide the right, logical, timely answer. Only the Ukrainian Parliament can do this. I call upon all of you, each of you, to be conscientious in your decision now. And finally, I want to share with my people the responsibility for what's going on in this room and on the street. And so I want to say, I swear to all honest people, we have won, we will defend our choice. And I swear to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat, please. We don't have a job yet. Please sit down. Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, well, calm down, ladies and gentlemen, sit down. If you're Stephen. If you don't understand anything about politics, but you're an experienced politician, if the faction leader comes in and wants to speak, it should be understood properly, I don't understand why we're such emotions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies, Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, let's be tolerant.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u67	We're talking about democracy, our citizens, and I want to say that it wasn't easy for me to make the right choice at the right time, and today it's not easy to do it. You know me as a person who has, throughout his life, led a tolerant policy aimed at consolidating our society and those events that have been going on in our Ukraine are very, very disturbing to me. And the examples for me were, to keep our party first of all, it's a micro-state and believe me in your party too, and my colleagues who are talking about the platform of national democracy today can confirm that I haven't told them that it's their right to act, in connection with the extraordinary events today in the Supreme Council. But what I'm going to say is that I'm not going to end up sharing, and it's hard for me to speak after Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, my colleague, I can say that I didn't become a candidate for the Presidents, even though I could do it, and when today I could become a candidate for presidents, well, it was up to me, depending on that party, on that position. But I have come to realize that these last few days have been called up to two candidates. Unfortunately, this situation in our country has shattered our society, our families, our people, today I represent the parliamentary government coalition, you know what I am. And why do I work in it, because that rational grain that our nation needs, our citizens through this structure, we also carry it and you can confirm it in a row. Voting positions and those suggestions that came from me personally from my colleagues and from all of us. I can tell I know all the parts of Ukraine are no worse than anyone. And I passed before the elections, headed the block of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic together for the future. And I faithfully led him. I really supported him. And I mean, I've never said a bad word for anyone, including for presidential candidates or representatives, for those who represent this bloc. And I will continue to pursue this policy. But I can remind you, I didn't know what Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic would say, so I apologize, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko. He said today about the prime ministers. My choice to support Yanukovich was very difficult. Many factors. I know him well. You understand me as a man. But what I'm saying is, unfortunately, these actions today, including our President, because the system of power like this, it wouldn't let Eugenia Marchuku work, it wouldn't let her work in the desert, which was also directed to release her from work at her own time. This was endured by Kinach and Viktor Yushchenko. [[Applause]] So I can say, I'm set up for constructive work by the parliamentary coalition that we have today. I invite you to a dialogue. And I want to say that if we don't carry out political reform, I have sincerely supported it, never, you can confirm it, you can't, in any way, give us today the powers that are today. Not at all. And I am prepared to invite you to start today's debate at the level of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, representatives of the MP groups and factions so that we can do everything we can to consolidate our society. Because we're going to be in this Supreme Council working long and long. We have to look at everyone's face with sincerity, and we have to look at our citizens, our people. And I call everyone to our work together and to our dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be tolerant. Let's listen to all the thoughts. Because if we have this uniformity, it's going to be at the cemetery. Calm down, please. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please, from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u69	Dear national deputies, in connection with the statements and statements made here at the address of my factions, I am authorized to make the following statement on their behalf. The Ukrainian Communists warned the Ukrainian community that the 2004 presidential election of our Ukraine had been turned into a violent confrontation between two clans, who inadvertently involved thousands of voters who sincerely wanted to change for the better. [[B in m in s a l in]] VOICES FROM THE PLACE. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u71	The plenary of the CD decided not to support the re-voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u72	If you keep going, I'll understand that you're clear, you don't have any problems that you don't listen to. Once again, I can give you many examples of another species. Calm down, please! Adam Ivanovich, keep going!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u73	The plenary of the CD has decided not to support any candidates in the re-voting process, each of whom represents the continuation of the policy of today’s ruling regime, which has led our people to poverty and misery. In expressing and defending the interests of the workers, the Communists cannot and will not stand outside those dangerous processes that are taking place in Ukraine today. The well-known political forces, based on the cynical slogan "Victory at any price" and incorporating the data of questionable exit polls before the beginning of the official vote count, have announced by the winners of their candidates, they have launched a scenario developed by U.S. air technologists generously funded by the West that was stolen from our people by money tested in Serbia and Georgia by the scenario of the so-called non-violent revolution. In Belgrade, it is known that it has led to the burning of parliament, the destruction of a telecentre of gunfire in the backs of law enforcement. Overshadowed by the unsatisfying greed of power, the mind of some politicians ceases to control their political conduct. There are calls for the capture of mail, railways and airports, the crossing of roads to achieve political goals, the massive provocation of young people, students, and the CLTC are forcing them to announce the outcome that will be recognized by the West. The Communist faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shares society’s deep concern with extremist politicians, which can lead to unforeseeable tragic consequences. The Communist faction claims that the interests of Ukraine and its people must be higher than those of any party political and financial cranes. The Communist faction stands firm against the burning and oppression of political opposition in society, against the warming of mass psychosis, against the pressure on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, against the manipulation of the minds of the crowd, and against the incitement of people to wrong actions that could lead to bloodshed. The Communists urge both parties to restrain themselves, to political consultations, to preserve civil calm and to resolve all issues within the existing Constitution and laws of Ukraine, for the observance of law and law. We are also strongly protesting any external interference in Ukraine's internal affairs. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council warns that all responsibility will be borne by those whose own selfish political ambitions will not stop at the very dangerous actions of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u74	Please, Igor Yukhnowsky, faction of our Ukraine. We've got one last speech left.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u75	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I, the Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, an elder of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have declared, on the basis of the true will of the people of Viktor Andriyovich, elected President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Great people of Ukraine from East to West! Be with the new president. Please, Victor Andryovich, on this old one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u76	Turn off the microphone! Turn off the microphone! I want to do it again. Don't do comedy! Turn off the microphone! Or speak up. I, Igor Raphailovich, said to you: Don't make a comedy, you're a very experienced man. No one needs to make that decision. I want to tell you again! I'll turn on the microphone, but if this goes on, I'll close the session. I want to say again, there will be no oath. Calm down, please! Talk, but basically. Finish the comedy. Please speak, Igor Raphailovich. We made a deal!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u77	I ask you, Victor Andriyovich, on this five-year-old Bible Ostróżki took an oath under the Constitution for allegiance to the people of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-23-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the question, "The situation in connection with the elections" is over in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Calm down! Sit down! Sit down! Sit down! Dear people's deputies, I'd like to say again. Sit down, please! Dear National Deputies, the additional meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
