ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[16:04:39]] Registered -282 There were 282 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. We are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Please give the word to Joseph Winsky, a faction of socialists, to prepare Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u2	Honourable National Deputies, the Viennese faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. You know, we're discussing today a very serious political document that will have a serious impact on the fate of the state and society. But you listen to the discussion, and you remember, remember, this one rerun, when our planet was even hotter and elephants and mammoths wandered through it, there was no problem with the system of power. I think everyone understands that these problems with the system of power are now. And this is becoming clear to all today, both to society, and to the Supreme Council, and even to the President of Ukraine, who had not yet understood it. And it's quite obvious that as with the system of power, there can't be any more. I think it's also a thesis that no one can refute. It took us eight years to understand that. And I think today is the time for this understanding to be implemented accordingly. The position of our faction, our party, is quite consistent. We've spoken and said that our party is definitely against the Ukrainian king in any form and under any name. In fact, the whole point of our activity in changing the system of government was to do just that. And I think that's very well understood within and outside this room. And what's more, I was sad today to hear the arguments of a certain part of the MPs who took up the position of the hawk, which today is on the right side of me in the hall, because they are largely completely incorrect and inaccurate. Because I think that any charges against our faction are invalid because we, our faction, have never been in the executive power, because in the opposition since 1992 and we have clearly talked about it and we have taken the right position. And I don't think it's entirely right to criticize people who were ministers and ministers and even heads of government yesterday. And I think it's totally inappropriate to talk about these things to those people who are saying today that the imperative mandate of someone there is binding or not providing opportunities, especially that sounds brutally out of the mouth of those who today have a gastronal mandate in our Supreme Council. So our faction insists that change take place. But we want, and it's proposed by the leader of our party, Alexander Frost, that we do this in such a way that it raises doubts both in society and in the Supreme Council, and that the state and society, after adopting the changes, should not be exposed to a series of dangers that are now quite obvious. Unfortunately, the position of our faction, Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, is not taken by the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u3	Please give the floor to the national deputy Bulby. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u4	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Today again charges are being made against the Socialist Party of Ukraine. That was the case more than once, but then it became clear that Frost was right. And when the Constitution was adopted in 1996. And when he warned of the danger of turning the earth into a commodity at the time of the adoption of the earthly codex and in other cases. I turn to those who today are flocking to the most radical opposition and who speak beautifully of morality. If you had been so consistent, radical and uncompromising in the midst of the U.S. "For Ukraine without Cuchma" campaign a few years ago, when one statement by Prime Minister Yushchenko and the Head of the Supreme Council of Plush about the support of the people's opposition was sufficient for the immediate resignation of the President. But then came the sad statement of three, which saved that regime, the regime now in force. Now the same virtues convince us that Kuchmi cannot be trusted. And we don't believe it. But unlike some moralists, socialists have always been consistent in their position. We have acted, we are in favour of changing the system of power, under conditions when the people can exercise their right to exercise power directly by forming and controlling it. Without this change, they can't be better. We have always stressed that a key point, a necessary condition for political reform, is the introduction of a proportional system of elections to a representative authority with the right of electoral authorities to form and control the functioning of the executive structure. Without this, the authorities will never become politically responsible. Who and why is opposed to a proportional system? Those who benefit from political chameleonism, which enables them to exercise power, are not responsible for the consequences of their activities. This is particularly true in regions where, year after year, despite any election, the elections in power remain the same. I'm talking to everyone who's opposed to an imperative mandate: ask the voters what they think about the people's deputies who, when they go to the Supreme Council, say, on the Company list, then they run to another faction to play football, lead a team or something. Then you will realize that the people have long been tired of empty promises, lies, and deception, and they want to end it. Which is why I urge everyone to move from words to action and vote for Alexander Frost. And then there will be both glory and will in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u5	Please, the Ivy microphone, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u6	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say to Socialist Bulby that you don't have a very good history of reforming Ukrainian power. I remind you, when you were not in Parliament, that really, as Leonid Makarovich said today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced the Institute of the President's Representative, who, throughout the year-and-a-half, did not fully justify himself and we rejected him and adopted the Law on Authority, which provided for the selection of the heads of districts and areas, the selection of the heads of districts and areas by the people themselves. In 1994, this was done, but it was socialist Alexander Moroz who gave up this standard by signing the Constitutional Treaty and then by introducing state administrations, and now for eight years you have been fighting the Constitution with the Frost to get this election back.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u7	Please, Replicator freeze, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u8	Dear John Stepanovich, honourable deputies. It's like my friend from Tarasti says, "Shut up the world." There's nothing to comment on. As Head of the Supreme Council, I signed the decision of the Supreme Council and not more than the Constitutional Treaty. And our faction, no man signed the Constitutional Treaty, but as you ran on the run with the President, you continued this line and in 2000, you entered the office of the Supreme Council's Chief of Staff for a false decision by the Supreme Council, for a decree signed by false and unvoted, for a seal that was forged, and that didn't give you any objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, once: one said - another said. Please, Vernigora. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u10	Dear colleagues and radio listeners. Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'm also one of those who accepted the Constitution in this room. And I'm also one of those, maybe few who are ashamed that it's not being implemented today and not just for the guarantor of the Constitution, but for our authority, for our regime. Yes, there are some inadequacies in this Constitution. Why, though, are the responsibilities that are in it not fulfilled? We have a TV show that says, "It's not so bad in our house." And I always add, not everyone. Not everyone in our house, because a dozen of the pieces that our President has defined or estimated have said that they were able to adapt to the new conditions, today they've taken away most of the vast majority of what these people have done and what this Constitution has given them. And today these people want to retain the right to preserve what they took. And today, this mess has nothing to do with, or cannot be compared to, what has been done to Ukraine, what has been done to our land, which has been made with our pensioners, our children, the sick, and so forth. I would rather not have our people listening to what is happening in our parliament today. Everyone thinks we're really fighting for power today. And as I drove here, my neighbor came to see me in Dikańka and said, "I have a pension of 96 bucks. 102 bracelets I blame for the gas. I got cut off, I'm freezing. My daughter-in-law has come to me, and she's cutting cherry," and she's burning him up in this house. And this is in Dikanc, where the most gas is produced in our Ukraine. Today we see everyone attacking Alexander Frost. They don't attack, and everyone wants to drag him to their side. I'd like to ask you all. Why are you dragging him? If we are correctly recorded in our project on changes to the Constitution and political reform, do not drag on. It's freezing, you won't be able to do it. You join him. Join us and together let us make changes to the Constitution, which will serve all our people. Then we know that it will work, for it is not only the clean hands but also the light of the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u11	Please, National Deputy Seminouk. Prepare Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u12	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Fellow dignitaries who were in this room in 1996 remember that in favor of Ukraine, both the left and the right, representatives of the majority districts were united. They united for one thing — for the sake of Ukraine. I remember that constitutional night when at three o’clock in the morning we had to vote in favor of changing the symbolism behind Crimea, and we understood that we needed to compromise. That's why I want to address all the political parties. Today, we must be united by one fate in Ukraine. And if we want to have the right result, we have to go to the dialogue. Remember, just a few years ago, when we just filed a constitutional application, i.e. socialists, to the Constitutional Court, everyone was amazed at the absurdity of the matter. The time passed, and even the president and representatives of the various political parties realized through the dialogue that there was no other way out. You and I are dependent on the question of why the authorities today do not suit their interests, and we should talk about how we should form power in such a way that people go to it and believe that authority. And you and I are obliged to bring to power those who will answer to those who choose this authority. Therefore, the proposals made by Alexander Alexanderovich regarding both the appointment of governors and the responsibility of the Attorney General are a compromise. And I'd like us to hear each other in this room, hear for one thing, for the sake of Ukraine. Remember, by this time we have declared only what we have representative bodies in places, or councils. We passed the Local Self-Government Act, but it's not working. Why? Because today the heads of administration actually usurped this power, and the councils actually have no material basis, no accountability to people, just because the question of executive power is not filled because of the material basis, because of the formation of both local taxes and congregations and the budget. That's why I want to talk to everyone. And in the memorandum signed by the fourth party, and in the memorandum of the political party of the majority, we have to compromise for one thing -- for the sake of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u13	National deputy Garmash has the floor. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u14	Galina Garmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Hearing and observing this political hysteria today, the accusations of various political forces in all deliberate and unimaginable sins and crimes have been grudgingly reflected in my eyes by images and stories from the lives of our multidisciplinary Ukraine: the eyes of dead veterans who have given their full strength, knowledge, experience to their country today, who have condemned them to life in poverty; the eyes of thousands of street children, orphans with living parents, who are now living on the rubble, train stations, streets; the eyes of thousands of hopeless people who have been sentenced to death without medicine and medical care; the eyes of doctors. Yesterday, a colleague and I met at the Institute for Surgery and Transplantation, when high-class professionals asked the sponsors for money for equipment, for medicine to save these doomed people. I see hundreds of mining towns that have been plagued by war or the Chernobyl tragedy. Such examples can be cited by each of the people’s deputies here for tens, hundreds, thousands. It is for those people, for them, that they today need a reform of the power system, which should give them a chance to pave the way for the future of a normal human civilized State. This reform is certainly not to be done. For the purpose of eliminating the current regime of power, but not to bring to power a new king or a hetman with any other most benevolent family, with cut or uncut powers. The Parliamentary Houses, including with our active participation, the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, give local councils, on a proportionate basis, an opportunity today to choose the fair, normal power they will trust. Today's accusations against the Socialist Party and Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz as its President are totally groundless and have no basis. The Socialist Party's line of action in all these years of opposition, since 1991, has been consistent and clear, aimed at changing the regime of power. That is why Alexander Alexandrovich does not need prosecutors or prosecutors or lawyers today. So much dirt has been poured out on him for the past 13 years, not a single gram has landed on him. And when we didn't try to black it out, I didn't get it either. It's just starting, we're on the move. And if we do not speculate on political reform today, we will find the right option. I therefore invite all the people's deputies to support the constructive position of Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz and to vote in favour of amending the Constitution after the election of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u15	The word has the national deputy Boki to prepare for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u16	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. I think I'm being treacherous and clearly out of my mind by a criminal criminal and a friend of Kuchma Rabinovich as the main anti-Semite of Ukraine allowed to use two anecdotes of wise Jews. The first one's like this. Mendela's light went out. The montar he called explained to him: “You have a brief closure. What Mendel asked me to do, and you went on with it. The second anecdote is. Mendel tells Dodik: I really don't like you going to my wife. What Dodik said was how strange you are, because your wife likes it. Do you not think that our discussion on some scales resembles the grain of these anecdotes? One wants to continue this, unfortunately, with a brief closure, an unscrupulous closure of the dictatorship. Others do not like the way Mendella likes his wife. We have locked ourselves in for a few moments, and we want to understand that the closure of dictatorship can be endless, and walking into a foreign family will not save Dodik or Mendela from what a cunning lady has prepared for them, in our case a foreign authority. I don't want to apocryphalize for anything, but we need to think that reform in Ukraine is needed as a chandelier in our apartments with dead air, so there's no doubt, I think, there's no one here. We wonder if she will give anything for Kuchma and his political heirs. In order for these doubts to be resolved so that they do not become a proprietary in Ukrainian democracy, the body of the Constitution needs to incorporate the ideas that Alexander Moroz put in here. It'll create that balance of power, that system of opposites, by which no hell, whether it's Kuchma or someone else, it's not scary. If Frost's proposals, these are the proposals of our entire faction, will be implemented, then they have the opportunity to feel unsurpassed, neither "Our Ukraine" nor today's unhappy, by their dependence, most of them, no, and these are the main Ukrainian people. Without that, we socialists are very doubtful that reform will work, not in the ideal, but in the nominal. Let's show that we're wiser than mendelas, and we're not stupider than them anyway. Let's reform, freeze and win, and no one will lose. Ukraine will receive a system of authority worthy of its great mission. And as the appointee of Rabinovich on the day of the Jews from the forty - year wilderness to the land promised, I call upon all to be just a little Moses, and we will bring Ukraine out of the claws of the bush. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u17	The word has been given to the national MP of Baranovsky. Get ready for Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u18	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Six years ago, socialists announced the need for a change of power. The authorities, the Kuchma regime, did not take this explicitly, but they were only trying to frame the Socialist Party, destroying the party's acts. Tell your respectable colleagues, tell the constituency that the party has endured such a powerful press? I, who led the march in the winter of 2001 from Zitomir to Kiev as part of the "Ukraine Without Kuchma" campaign for seven days, sleeping in tents in the snow, with only one goal to show the Ukrainian people, to the world that in Ukraine is a terrible dictatorship of Kuchma, today is painful to hear accusations of the cooperation of the SPI and the authorities. Now, unfortunately, those who criticize, criticize the Socialists, didn't back us up in 2001 and, on the contrary, with Kuchma and John Plush, they condemned our actions in the so-called "list of three." The electorate is well aware that the main political conflict in society is not about people taking power because people choose one another, but about others. After electing national deputies, the voters cannot wait for the party programmes to be carried out in Parliament, because the Cabinet of Ministers is formed not by the deputies but by the President. We socialists have always advocated the redistribution of the functions of branches of power. And that's why I don't understand that those who are opposed to political reform today want to become President with the same powers as Kuchma has. I respect anyone's intention to become President of Ukraine, but I firmly oppose giving the future President such powers. As socialists, I want Alexander Moroz to be the next President, but I strongly oppose him having such unlimited rights as Kuchma does today. Like all of you, I want to believe in the law, not in a good king. It's a shame that the factions of our Ukraine and BUT don't want to join the bill that Alexander Moroz passed today, because it greatly improves Bill 4105. If this is not done today, it will be self - blamed, not by Frost and socialists as a whole. Proportional elections to all levels will not allow for the purchase of parliamentary mandates, in district and district councils they will be deputies, not appointed heads of administrations, but specifically elected from the political power that people trust. So I'm going to vote in favour, because this is a step forward, a step towards democracy, this is the end of our party program in front of our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u19	The word is given to the national deputy of Singachuku. Get ready, Tsuko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Maybe I'll start my speech with a somewhat paradoxical, sort of situation. Today on the street the slogans--"Get away from the Constitution!'in the street today and in this hall--' 'don't touch the Constitution!'"but Europe has recognized our Constitution, the 96th Constitution, the Constitution of which Alexander Moroz is the father, the most democratic in the chapters that we are today! I'd like to emphasize that! We're talking about changing the system of power today. Today we do not violate the rights of the people. Today, we are intruding on the responsibilities of authority. That's the first one. The other one. The reform of the air system, in my opinion, in the view of our faction, is to make a clearly defined chain from-to-way! That's what I'm stressing. Responsible to the people, according to the national election of the Supreme Council, the government responsible to the Supreme Council and the President must control and correct the contradictions between these branches of government. I think this is exactly what management theory sometimes says about the difference between leadership and governance. And let the President rule, no one will interfere with him here, but let them run the social sphere. The economic sphere, the political sphere of professionals who will work in government. Third or third. In this connection, I would like to ask all national deputies and factions today to support the Alexander Moroz project that you all have. Which smoothes out all contradictions and allows us to carry out polytreform, and more specifically, reform of the power system on a legitimate basis. And the last. I would like us to live in Ukraine democratically. I do not want to live in Ukraine, where senior officials call opposition fascists. I do not want to live in Ukraine where land and businesses are traded. I don't want to live in Ukraine where 7 million of her daughters and sons are disappearing abroad. I want to live in Ukraine, which is a mother for my children and children respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u21	The word has a national MP, Tsushko, to prepare Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u22	Dear People's Deputies, Tsushko Socialist faction. You know, we're all male deputies in the army. And this is political reform that reminds me of an army where there is a legacy. But we have grandfathers who have power now. There are young people who are opposed to something they want to change. But there's a part of young people who don't want to change the constitution, but there are honest officers, and I mean that part of the opposition that wants to change the system of power today wants to change the constitution. And he's offering to live by the statute, but some of the young people in this part. She doesn't want to be a grandfather tomorrow, so they don't want to change the system, they don't want to change the statute. That's the tragedy. The statute we're changing, I understand that, but it could be changed if we were to participate, I have in mind all young people, i.e. the whole opposition, if we were to participate. And we would have a beautiful constitution, that is, a beautiful Constitution. And we would trade it for our people. And today's situation will, of course, be, let's say, not the full-fledged reform that our citizens need today. And you all know and understand that if we leave this system behind, it could end in tragedy. I'm like a person who's not used to it, let's say, for 10 years now, he's been living in this system. We are now, well, warned: "Behold, get to it before that," they are afraid. Yeah, maybe something's gonna be bad, but any change in the power system today is moving forward, moving forward for people. Next. As a member of the Social Party, in the elections when I went to Parliament, I told people, and people supported. And you all know that if we don't change the system of power, we won't bring the people responsible for it, we won't. And I want to give you an example for those who say that our society is not ready. Well, don't humiliate our people, don't humiliate our people. I'm from Odessa County, not far from the Moldovan border. Let me tell you this: Moldova introduced a proportional electoral system in 1993, beginning with the village. Moldova came out of the same incubator we came out of, which is called the Soviet Union. Three proportional elections have already taken place, now the Communists are in power. But the Communists have appointed a control package in Parliament, appointed a technocrat government, and are trying to move the Republic towards democracy in the most difficult conditions. This change in the Constitution is the way to democracy. Here's the dictatorship of democracy. I therefore call for support for the proposals made by the Socialist faction. And we're going to have a good charter, and the statute is the rule, it's the law, it's the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u23	The word has the national MP, Nikolainko. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u24	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! If any of you have observed nature closely today, there has been a thunderstorm quite recently, and it is the second time in the early spring and twice in the bare earth. I do not think that this is a good witness from the folklore. And that thunder that's coming from both sides here today, one political power to another, I don't think it's a good idea of our future either. We see the idea of changing the system of power in the swamp of mutual accusations today, and we see that the line that today in the state is going to change the system of power into a state-wide democratic reform is towing it. We're moving on to a line of advantage to the President and Bank Street, a line of confrontation between the left and the right. I want to say that the Ukrainian Security Service in Ukraine eats bread with nothing. These. What we saw at the beginning of this day, when this confrontation came, is a testimony that today the ruling power is winning, because instead of sitting down and agreeing, we have spent all our strength to resist. I would like to say today that the main confrontation in Ukraine today is between the democratic path of development and the oligarchic one, and everyone needs to listen. I want to talk to our partners today and Victor Yushchenko's bloc, and Julia Timoshenko doesn't just listen to herself, let's do it again until it's too late today, let's not scold each other, let's vote and insist that the bill that Alexander Moroz is proposing. What does he propose? To balance the government and the President's forces today until 2006. Most today are asking for a strong prime minister, and they will receive it, their gains. We're handing over to the President today the influence on the prosecutor and the appointment of the heads of administration. If we vote for it, there is a balance and it is only after the presidential election. If we don't do this, we're gonna lose. I hear screams at my address again. Let's hear it anyway. Because what I'm saying is, today we are worthy, if you'll excuse me, of our predecessors, of our predecessors, of our predecessors, of all the years when we've been able to make a wise decision, of one soul to another, and we've been doing it today. Let's break this bitter tradition and work it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u25	The word is given by the national MP Melniczuk. Get ready, Shibka. Please, Hiccup. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! I want to talk to you, a couple of theses. Thesis first. What was our conversation today called? The conversation was about whether we would be better off after we accepted the changes to the Constitution? But you all realize that no one can answer that question. And I'm surprised when we just think about it without going without moving. That's why we're also discussing in our faction, and it's not very easy for us to do that. Whether it is better or not, we urge you to go. So, as the Russian proverb says, "The road will be strengthened by the next one." Let's try it. Will it be better than that? Yes, thinking of it as sitting, telling whether it will or not, no one can be faithful. The second question. Christian peace, as you well know, awaits the Messiah in 1971. But he slowed down. He was slow because he had left his word and had left the covenant that we should live by. That's why I call you. We may not be expecting a messiah in this electoral year either, but maybe we should write down the rules that everyone who comes to the President should play by. And today it will really be the right decision for us to move. And the third. In 1996, as an ungodly man, I climbed this rostrum that night and, in conflict with my feelings about whether or not to be a Constitution, urged everyone to vote for that symbolism. There were no more quarrels or more threatening disputes, whether it was the Constitution or not. But the Constitution was adopted, and many were reconciled by this very Constitution, and by the Constitution, on which Frost insisted. So let's take the same step as we did in 1996, we're going to take the fight away, we're going to throw away some ideological superstition, and we're going to make these changes in the Constitution that will do better. And I'd also like to advise you, get out of what, the protocols are written. And in six months, we would not be too ashamed to read what we said today in this rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u27	Timoshenko Replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u28	Dear friends, there is no doubt that these constitutional changes are the changes of Kuchma Medvedchuk. And for the majority who support the President today, I would like to say that the transitional changes to the Constitution take effect three months before the President's election. That is, a coalition must be formed with the President and the Prime Minister's candidature must be presented. And there are arrangements between the four oligarchs that will not be submitted and will be dissolved by Parliament in a month before the presidential elections. I want you to know this and not be a parliamentary meat for Medvedchuk and Kuchma. And I'm also turning to the left, don't support Kuchma, Medvedchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u29	By means of the Rules, the presiding officer breaks the information if it is false. In accordance with the Constitution, the President has no right to dissolve Parliament six months before the presidential elections. Please have the word of the national deputy Grzezhev. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, calm down, for God's sake, listen. We all agree that the issue that we are discussing is extremely important, very important for all of us and for all of Ukraine's inhabitants. I am somewhat dismayed by the lack of understanding of the importance of this from a certain part of our room, which in its form of discussion gives rise to some dissuasion. You've heard a lot about us today, to the socialists, and especially our leader, a lot of words that certainly don't grace the Ukrainian people's MP. And respectable colleagues, these things are unacceptable to me personally. And that's what I'm saying for the radio audience. I am personally ashamed of the conduct of our deputies, my colleagues. I want to say again for the radio audience. Socialists will never go down until they find out in this form of relationship, because we are looking at the essence of the question. And today, this is about changing the power system. You all understand that so much power has compromised itself, so much power is hated, if you want, people, you have to change it. What's wrong with our leader and others supporting this decision? All you have to do is say hello. Or take another question. Balance in power. Well, can't normal power live if there's no balance? I mean, what's the big deal? Normal proposals come from socialists and others who make such proposals here. Therefore, my proposal and my request to all the deputies. Let's still support the offer of socialists, our leader has sounded them, they're weighed, they're vital, they're thoughtful, and everything will be fine. And the last. If we do not vote in favour of these decisions today, then we will take this entire constitutional and political reform with you. So for the next 10 years, this darkness will be in the entire system of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u31	Mikola Rudzikowski, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine instead of Melniczuk. Prepare Karnauhu.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u32	Dear National Deputies! The Socialists have always consistently advocated political reform. And the reason for the political reform is that we see one flaw in the regulation of the Constitution of the balance of power. In view of the power vested in the President and the weakness of his character, he has surrounded himself with people who use this authority in their own interests. Over the past 10 years, Ukraine has been formed, not by democratic power, but by oligarchy. The position of socialists is to remove the oligarchs from power. This slogan and I, together with "Our Ukraine", the block of Yulia Timoshenko, the communists, the Socialists, went to elections in the past and said, "We will come to the Supreme Council, change the system of power, balance, transfer authority to the government, and the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers will be accountable to the people." Socialists and Communists consistently fulfill their commitments. But we don't understand why "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Tymoshenko" have given up their signatures, their position, their promises to their constituents. Sadly, today, political reform has been opposed by those who have used their hundreds of millions of dollars to make money using the power of Leonid Kuchma! With him, they used authority, were in power, and then they went into opposition for a year or two. To regain power with unlimited powers with the new President and to use authority in his own interests, without thinking about the position of ordinary people or citizens who receive neither pension nor salary. And that's why we socialists consider constitutional reform to be necessary. But it's not a constructive position of "Our Ukraine" and the Yulia Block that Timoshenko is not allowing us to carry out better political reforms, because if you've supported Alexander Alexandrovich's proposal for constitutional reform, on the balance of power between the President and the appointment of governors since 2006, we would not have monopolized power in the hands of a single government. I believe that we need to meet again at five o’clock and that you need to cross the throat of your pride and act in the interests of the whole society, the Ukrainian people, and the state. Because this draft changes to the Constitution makes the European state democratic, which we all talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u33	I see, well, respectable colleagues, Timoshenko and Hare. Please don't call me names, not factions anymore, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u34	They are now trying to push through the constitutional reform of Kuchma Medvedchuk. Left-wing forces are supported. I'm asking now, if the socialists have their own option, to insist on their choice and not support the Kuchma option. If after the Socialists announced their option, the Kuchma option will be supported, so it was just a game. If you see today that the Constitution is imperfect those changes that make, if you see that there are a million wrongs and nonsensees legal and conceptual, why do you, when you're making changes now, support the option that can't be the legal document of Ukraine at all. So I'm talking to the socialists right now: if you have a choice, please vote, but Kuchma and Medvedczuk for the entire people of Ukraine don't take over for another 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u35	John the Rabbit. Then there's the frost, the replica. Asadchev, you always hold the card, or you take something out and insert it. We've broken the technique. Check it out. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u36	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Rudzkowski blames "our Ukraine" for being unconstructive. I'm surprised at Rudzkowski's position, because Rudzkowski should know that even the leader of his faction, Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz, in this room and many other places, claims that the content of those changes to the Constitution is the punishment of God today. And he's passed his bill to improve these changes to the Constitution. So, Mr. Rudzkowski, we need to understand what this is about. If you support Medvedchuk-Cuchmi-Simonenko, that's one thing. We can't support that. But we stood and stood on the need to pursue political reform, but in the interests of the people, to pursue a political reform that would really give rise to responsible authority. What we are looking at today has nothing to do with creating the constitutional principles of effective authority. So, Mr. Mikola, don't lie to people. And as for those who stole millions of dollars. Mr. Rudzkowski, if I don't forget, you seem to have worked for the President's Administration. So do you think of yourself or someone else?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u37	Alexander Frost. Microphone, please. Then there's the miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I've asked you several times: let's not deal with personal claims, but consider the matter essentially. What Julia Volodymyrna said is not treated as it really was. The project that I'm doing today, I suggested yesterday as one of the options, in order to get the support of "Our Ukraine" and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, to reach out to the majority and all MPs to support this project in a convincing manner, 400 votes. And you insist, let's say, mole, let's put this project up, vote for it itself 20 or together -- it's going to be 140 people and it's going to be a dot. So the others don't vote. I insist that if you give a guarantee that you are voting as a whole for the project that is being proposed, then convince your colleague on the Conciliation Council, and the conversation on this issue we are having for the second week and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u39	Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk You're late, you're out of procedure, you're late. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk Prepare Yuri Carmazin instead of Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u40	Mikola Polishtuk, 214 constituency, Viktor Yuschenka's Block, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have never been in any government called oligarchic, not in any party or faction, but I want to say that I remember very well how from 1991 to 1995 medical people lived, lived doctors, lived all people when all the ministers and prime ministers were elected by Parliament and Parliament were shot. You remember that well, this time. There was a general supervision of the prosecutor’s office. You also remember that time. Even then, the heads of the administration were chosen for a year and a half. And then what happened? And then there was a catastrophic break-up of the state, and now you're accusing each other of it. There was 11,000 percent inflation! Then there were all the millionaires, and I was a millionaire. I had health clinics in the department that were millionaires. The bread cost hundreds of thousands of carbs. And what did we have then? And we're small. We lived to see that the population of Ukraine had dropped by more than 4.5 million. We are now taking the lead on strokes in Europe, one of the leading cardiovascular diseases, oncology. I was in the hospital yesterday. In 1995, when you, your honor, elected Parliamentary Government, I then worked on aviation gasoline early on, and yesterday I was working with antacids because there was no alcohol. And this government that is today has done nothing so far. There's a zero bet on the vodka, and there's 16 bracelets on the medicine. Here's what we got. So I would like to say, honourable national MPs, that the key question is not who will choose the Prime Minister and the government, but the key question is to be decent normal people. Dear National Deputies! You know, if a house doesn't make money, it doesn't move furniture, it changes people. Please, don't make this constitutional coup and the coup d'état in the state, don't do it again, so that we can come back to the years that we were, 1991-1995. You're smart people, don't blame each other, think about people, work on economic issues. We've been pounding water in our feet for two weeks. Last night, I was, on a stroke patient, I get 50 cents a day for a bracelet; on a severe cranial injury, I get 50 cents apiece. Is that it or is that it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u41	Yuri Carmazin instead of Mikoli Catherinechuk
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I took the floor to answer the questions asked today by Alexi Korge of Trzezlova-Chmielnicky, other people: "What will be the simple people of this change that they are now proposing?" Now I liked that some socialists said, "We want to change the system of power." And I'd like to ask the honourable, "Who was in the way, who was in the way, who was in the way of another system of power, when in this room in 1995, 240 votes, 240 votes were cancelled by a good parliamentary-presidential republic?" 240 votes and then there, in the lobby, was Socialist leader Alexander Frost. How do you understand that? Then it turns out the parliamentary-presidential republic wasn't right, but now it's needed. All right, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear citizens of Ukraine! How will this project restrict the President's administration? There's no limit. Today it is the second government, and more specifically, the first government. What will happen to the people from the fact that the national deputies will not be elected for five but four years? Such an increase will weaken the influence of Ukrainian citizens, for only five years from now will they be able to change the power that will be unfair to them, and European standards are completely different. What will happen if black and white officials do so? Some will not be members of Parliament. What then? Are we getting any better? Today it is said that "Our Ukraine" is against reforms. "Our Ukraine" for the reforms that will give power to self-government today that give the people of Ukraine a decent life and that's why we've proposed, let's not waste time now, let's go back to the State Budget Act, let's go back to the State Budget Act, 25 billion dollars that you're holding today, let's go back to that, and then Ukraine will be independent, and then it'll be normal, worthy of authority, and let's look at another legal question. You propose to repeal the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. He will no longer be the law, this is article 83. It's just going to be a rule that will change every queue. Or what? Is this going to make the Supreme Council more stable? I want you to think about what this is going to do. Therefore, distinguished national MPs! "Our Ukraine" for normal reform, for proper reform, not for anti-national reform. So I ask you to reconsider and vote against this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u43	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare for Vladimir Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski. I stood on this rostrum when the Declaration was adopted, and I stood on this stand when I took the Independence Act and stood when the Constitution was adopted. I went up today for the most important, I'm totally calm, believe me, I don't care if this bill goes through today or not. I don't think he'll make it. But if he does, I want you to know that I am as a person who loves Ukraine and talks about it from the highest stage, I am absolutely convinced, brothers who vote for it, remember, we will lift the people up to the national political strike, and we will definitely win, I repeat, we will definitely win. Let's talk about something else. When we adopted the Constitution, we believed that our people, whom we all belong to, would choose a conscientious man, choose a patriotic man, choose a wise man. That's what we thought. That was our fatal mistake. The Constitution has to be made under any human being, because it turns out that people can be wrong, or maybe people can be deceived. Today, eight years from now, we have to say that Leonidas Kuchma has no leader, no national figure, no good economist, no good manager. We have a genius in his person, I repeat, a perfectly brilliant intriguer who in eight years has learned to draw one oligarch with another, the other with a third, the fourth with a fifth, and that's why he's in power. Instead of discussing the issue today, Ukraine is at the top of the gap. In fact, our army is destroyed, our image is completely negative, today there are some scandals in the world and there is nothing more, not even the Kiev Dynamo today brings us joy in the world arena. One disgrace from film to journalist's killings and all that. We're going to play this power today. Alexander Alexandrovich, you've been through a lot today. I may have more respect for you here than anyone. But I'll tell you. We agreed, today the mature idea of governors is to choose the people, the circuits, and so on. Who's against it? No one's against it. Today, the local councils and the Supreme need to make elections. We're for this. That's what we talked about. Alexandre Alexandrovich, today you're giving a project that won't work. And you're pushing him to vote for the Kuchma project. And Leonide Makarovitch, your honor, I always thought that if you were not Kuchma and you were President, Ukraine would be much better. I'll tell you tonight, I'm done. Today I'll tell you, you remind me of a man.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u45	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u46	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Ukraine is in trouble. Twelve years after the bourgeois regime was destroyed by the active participation of "oursts" of the national authority, the people of Ukraine brought woe, poverty, extinction. The economy is at a post-war level. Whatever the case, the present - day authorities have powdered matters with beautiful figures, but the reality is pitiful. Only blind and deaf today can’t see or hear that something is wrong in our country. Rural uncles who reflect national wisdom say that the need for change leads to nowhere. And the sooner it becomes, the sooner it goes back to history, the better for the people, the better for Ukraine. From the whole spectrum of political forces in Ukraine, only the position of the Communist Party of Ukraine is consistent, balanced, aimed at improving the state of affairs, improving the lives of workers. The Communists initiated political reform as early as 1999, and Kuchma and Medvedczuk did not stick to Simonek. It took up to five years for representatives and other political forces to understand its necessity and essence. We welcome all those who support this initiative of the Ukrainian Company, not with the stone behind their armpits. One of the Ukrainian national deputies spoke today from the rostrum that the issue of political reform of the electorate was not of interest. True, there is a voluntary public debate on Bill 4,105 without the pressure of authority. I myself have witnessed this process. So I have the right to say this: most of our fellow citizens support political reform. People are waiting for responsible authorities to finally be formed, fed up with presidents who come to power to learn to be presidents through inhuman experiments on the people. They were fed up with temporary governments, whose representatives were only getting something “accepting” for themselves while they were in office, and when they were separated from the trough, they often went into opposition to the chair. The people patiently expect that the government of the State will finally come into the hands of honest and responsible politicians. I am confident that political reform will be implemented and our people will live better. I look with compassion and regret at the actions of the faction "Our Ukraine," because there are smart people there, but they play blindly, not by our people, but by the Pacific political and financial circles, a disgraceful role. I turn to the conscience and common sense of these national MPs: boys, don't you realize that dancing under someone else's doorbell ends tragically, and now it's not children's games, it's the fate of the people. Think about it before it's too late! We Communists are proud and confident to look to the future, for we are from the people and are the essence of the people. And no matter who resists, the Soviet authorities will still be established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u47	Please, Zybenko, prepare the Police.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! You know, the least I'd like to say today, right now, is banal things, but really today there's an event going on in this room, a decision is being made to determine the fate of Ukraine, the fate of the people of Ukraine, our children and grandchildren, not for years, not decades. The Communist faction, as one of the initiators of the changes to the Constitution, and we were perfectly consistent here, is trying to build a structure of power that is as transparent as possible, not in front of the West, not in front of Bush, not in front of the Ambassador of the United States of America Herbst, who was here today on the balcony, but in front of his own people. In this we are absolutely consistent, because our representatives who initiated constitutional reform at the time were also initiating, and when some of those who joined today, I emphasize rather than initiating reform, they were afraid to talk about the Constitution, about the changes to it, because it was a holy cow to them. We did it then. Communists want political reform not to be referred to as a trivial transfer of chairs, chairs in government offices, not as a change of captains on government bridges, but as a result of what every pensioner, every veteran, every teacher, every budgetman, and so on and so forth. Dear colleagues, one of the main opponents in solving the problem that is being addressed at today's meeting, are the representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine" and the faction of BUT, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that they are today declaring their opposition. At the same time, it is emphasized that the authorities today are criminal. Yeah, she's a criminal today. What is more, they say that the very design of power is criminal. Yes, it is. But what do they offer instead? And they say, let's leave it the way it is. So let's preserve it for 10 years and leave the people of Ukraine at a broken trough. So I'd like to go to all the deputies today, the left and right, the patriots and the nationalists, the reds and the whites, inviting them to vote for this document. Understand that today we are deciding the fate of our children, the fate of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u49	Andrew Politt, Communist faction. Prepare Nosenka, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u50	Andrei Polit, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Leninski Komsomol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, media representatives. With regard to constitutional reform, it is certainly impossible not to say or ask the opinion of young people, i.e. the future of Ukraine itself. For us young people, the political and social activity of young people is a key issue. The Lenin Commodore of Ukraine, together with other youth organizations, held a youth forum of the Left Forces of Ukraine, a number of regional forums where reform issues were discussed. In the forums, it was pointed out that we would not solve the socio-economic problems of young people without the establishment of an institution of political responsibility. By supporting a political power, ordinary people have given their power and the right to implement their programmes in practice and to be fully responsible for the results of their policies. That is the only way we will achieve greater political awareness of Ukrainian citizens, and especially of young people, to strengthen their responsibility for the fate of Ukraine. In other words, the adoption of the Local Government Elections Act, as a component of this political reform, allows young people to participate in responsible decisions at the regional level, defending the acute socio-economic problems of their peers. This law enables it to realize its political and social potential. For today, all of this is known from the so-called commercialization of the process of obtaining both the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the deputy of the local council, young people, as well as most citizens, are exposed to the political life of young people, without being able to influence the processes that are taking place in the country. There was a phrase today, an excellent phrase about clean hands. Only we urge you not only to have clean hands but also to have pure thoughts. Regrettably, some politicians view the limitation of presidential powers as their own, seeing themselves on the throne of a State. Ukraine and its people should not be manipulated. The other side of the so-called concern is obvious. It is for this reason that they have probably abandoned their programme objectives: proportional elections, strengthening the power of Parliament and Government, and the representative of the “Our Ukraine” faction. What do you say, master of your word: We will give, we will take. By the way, when referring to the authors of the bill, justice must be said that neither Kuchma nor Medvedchuk has anything to do with authorship. We are not in favour of the monarchy and irresponsible presidential regime today. It is funny to hear anti-presidential slogans from the bourgeois opposition, which includes dozens of past but faithful servants today. in the past, the faithful servants of both presidents. Their big list, let's not count them. This is the former Prime Minister, Speaker, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers. You can count for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u51	They didn't mention names. In the end, I'll give you the procedure, I'll give it to you. I said you'd get the word. Nosenko, please. The Communist faction. Prepare Petrova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u52	Mikola Nosenko, Ukrainian Communist faction, Chernigovishte Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! No matter who speaks, political reform is being carried out for the initiative of the Ukrainian Company. My predecessors, the Communists, fought for it for several years, not because of their own ambitions, or because of their personal benefit, but because of the interests of the working people. I will normally support and vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Constitution by draft law number 4105. I fully agree with the arguments made by my colleagues in the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine from this rostrum. I didn't understand the position of a part of Parliament that was still saving yesterday for changes in the system of power, and to this day, it took a completely different position that doesn't go into the normal logic and theory of some leaders about creating a policy with clean hands. The question is, when were you open? When a part of you swore allegiance to the ideals of Marxism-Leninism, entering the Company, celebrating the party, its leaders and the Soviet state of Odom, or when they burned and ripped public party tickets in 1991, did everything related to the Company and the Soviet Union? Then, when put on the chair of President Kuchma, entering and leading the government of Ukraine, calling him, the President, is no different than a "parent father" or when the same President was accused of all the sins that he himself was brought up to, when, by participating in the "Resurrection of Ukraine" campaign! Are they in favour of changing the existing system of power, or are they now, when you call on the President not to exercise authority and not to pursue political reform? In every civilized country, politics has been set aside for all time for political reasons. Colleagues from our Ukraine faction, your train's long gone, you've shown what you're capable of, and our armor train is standing on a back-up line. Those who have cheated and robbed our suffering people for decades will be. And the working people of Ukraine will breathe freely, ridding themselves of the expansion of government and oligarchs of various political colors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! Now a line, one minute. Dear colleagues! Calm down, there'll be a word for it. I was approached by the leaders of two MP factions and groups with this statement: "In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine require that the Counting Commission confirm the absence of the National Deputies listed below. I'm asking according to the Rules. Dear colleagues! I'm going to have to set up a Counting Commission and report it. I entrust the Counting Commission with identifying the names of the national MPs or the names available in the session hall, or they are not in line with the lists provided by the two factions. Please, Peter, speak. I'm acting according to the Rules and direct me, please. The time will come for you to guide me. You don't have to read, study the Rules, then you'll come. Get ready for Player.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u54	Victor Petrov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Vinnitsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u55	Then there'll be a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u56	Respectable People's Deputies and respectable Voters! Let's go back to 1991, a counter-revolutionary coup. The political forces that took power illegally destroyed Ukraine, privatized, factories and factories closed down, millions of unemployed, expanded collective farms in the country, eliminated, in fact, health, education. And all these years, the same policies continue, but not one political force has yet taken responsibility for what it has created with Ukraine. Therefore, it is very beneficial for those who today are fighting for power to leave such a regime when it is not clear who is responsible. Today he is the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, tomorrow he goes, he calls himself the opposition, and there remains a round. When it was beneficial to go to the Ukrainian House, after receiving the positions of vice-premiers, ministers and so on, they again had a coup d'état in 2000 and everything remained in place. That is why we, the Communists, advocate that power be held accountable to the people. We are not afraid of responsibility, we have a specific programme to save the people of Ukraine, we have human resources, we know what needs to be done. But those who want Ukraine to remain in the state it is today oppose political reform are precisely the forces. Those who sit on the right side of us, unfortunately our radio audiences don't see, are the ones who drove and drove the gasoline in 1991, the ones who created the misfortunes that we have today with Ukraine. On December 24th, when the first reading of the vote, the same people jumped here on the tables, when a solid professor, a doctor of science whistled at the door, it was a shame even to look at the matter. Dearly respected comrades, we Communists have initiated this political reform, and we are well aware of who it benefits, who does not benefit from this political reform. I am confident that now most of our House, more than 300 deputies, will vote in favour of amending the Constitution of Ukraine, and you and I will have the power to hold the people accountable. Deputies will be elected by party list. Who today opposes the imperative mandate. It was those from the rostrum who had changed eight factions over the past six years, elected one party list, and then migrated around the hall, who received a lot of money for it. Dear comrades, we are in favour of changing the Constitution, so that these reforms, the new Constitution, will be better for Ukraine to flourish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u57	The word has the national deputy Grachev, to prepare the Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u58	Grachev, faction of the Communist Party. Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected compatriots, respected colleagues. Today, several deputies who spoke from this rostrum asked whether this reform would improve people's lives? The question is what's called rhetorical. When the Communist Party initiated reform, it was aimed at increasing the responsibility of the authorities. In line with this reform, therefore, the political force that will gain people's confidence and form either itself or with other coalitions in Parliament and will form all authorities. Whom will people choose? If representatives of the Communist Party were to improve people's lives, of course, because we favour a change of power. If they choose the political power that opposes reform today, of course, people's lives will not improve because instead of some oligarchs, others are even more insatiable. Today, during the break, people approached and asked why the political forces against reform were so mean to this rostrum and especially to the Communists? And the older generation remembers that the ideological predecessor of this political force, Stephen Bender, said that our power in Ukraine must be terrible. Do not let such authority really happen in Ukraine. Today, even the leader of this political force, known as the one who threw off his sheep’s skin and attacked Peter Simonenko with unwarranted attacks. Although he said recently that he was an experienced politician for whom 38 percent of the 1999 sample was cast. Well, isn't that a paradox? Honourable deputies, if a person who is an agent of the influence of the small Pacific Power speaks of clean hands. Dear colleagues, the current constitutional reform option may be imperfect in some way, but it is its implementation that will show how to improve further. I call on everyone to vote in favour of this constitutional reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u59	Please, the word has a national deputy, Yeshchenko, to prepare Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u60	Fucking Communist faction. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. We, the Communist faction in the Supreme Council, the Company as a whole, have been fighting for changes to the Constitution since 1999. By right, the local authority was subjected to extensive processing of the MPs before voting on the election of the national deputies on a proportional basis, by the election of the deputies of the local self-government bodies on a proportionate basis, but here, in the hall, we grouped together, voted and passed those laws that had already been signed. We have to take the next step, do what voters expect us to do. Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenk and I, while in the Cityship and Smolyan region of Cherkas region, have heard from our voters the request -- no matter how violent the pressure goes on the Company of Ukraine from the right and the center, to vote on the conscience and to cast our votes for the change to the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to give an example of when, in a report on the city's head in Cherkas, which I supported in the 2002 elections, "Our Ukraine," he said, "I support the law on the elections of local self-government on a proportional basis, because I believe that communists and socialists will come to the local self-government, with which to solve issues, build a future, and with our Ukraine and similar factions we can't build because they only talk in sessions, talk for all sorts of reasons, blame each other, but never work constructively." I think today's vote should also mark our strategic task of our party, which states in the charter that our party will consistently act after the abolition of the President's office in Ukraine as an anti-national and will do everything to ensure that our authority in Ukraine comes to power of councils, to the power of workers. And I think today's MPs who are present in the Hall understand that the faction of Communists is consistent throughout their entire stay in the Supreme Council, leading a policy of protecting the population of the destitute, the people who really believe in the Company. And I think our faction today will not let our people of Ukraine down and vote in favour of Law 4105.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u61	Please give the word to Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u62	Respectable colleagues, respectable voters, comrades! Today the moment of truth has come in this room. When masks are removed, when true goals are seen. And I understand in human terms today the history of some former ministers who have already felt their backs again familiar with the resistance of ministerial chairs. I know it's close to the elbow, but we still have to bite it. But most importantly, today we are communists in favour of this reform, because it bears the first responsibility. The responsibility of all branches of government. Today, in my homeland, there is the privatization of Krivoroztali, coal, metallurgical combinations, who is responsible, who is responsible for these consequences. Today Kuchma is told, but in 1999 Kuchma was brought to power by those who are trying to get away from him today. You won't make it, you're connected to him forever. Today we are talking about what the inhabitants of the small mining town of Pervomayska should think about when they raised the prices 2.5 times and the members of the Horseus voted for who is responsible. Today, we must make it clear that reform must increase responsibility for the authorities. The electorate must know clearly who they are voting for. They should know who is responsible for all programme implementation. This is where they're talking about what's going on with the D.A.'s office. But it bears primarily the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Today, simple people in the DA's office hear the answer, and we don't have that kind of authority, we're not gonna do that. And you know what our trials are today. Therefore, the prosecution's strengthening is primarily the strengthening of the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the law enforcement agencies for the state of human rights. Today, on the eve of the vote, we must think again about who we are, we are, the people's electorate. We must say that if we are for reform, we are for the people; if we are against reform, we are for dictatorship. And today's Democrats have ripped off the mask, and they demand that they have authoritarian power. But it won't work. I think, and I am sure that reforms will be today and Ukraine will have a bright future. And we will win this case with you, dear voters!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, there was a mention of the faction "Our Ukraine." Please, Gunner, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u64	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters. The miner, the valley constituency, the faction of our Ukraine. This morning was mentioned in the village of Shevchenkovo of the Dolin constituency, of which I am a deputy. For this reason, I received a telegram, and the Head of the Supreme Council received a telegram from the inhabitants of this village, which I will read. "Dear Mr. Head, the inhabitants of the Carpathians, in their majority position of "Our Ukraine", have kept and will always keep the memory of the fallen in all the wars that have taken place in Ukraine. Thus, the conjunctural statement made by Communist leader Peter Simonck about the destruction of the monument to World War II warriors is surprising and indignant. In fact, it was decided by the village council of Shevchenkovo to reconstruct the monument until the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. Too much blood, including Ukrainian, was shed in that war so that someone could afford to destroy the monuments. Mr. Litwin, you were on Prikarpatha and you didn't see any signs of contempt, because they're just gone. A."..
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u65	Thank you. Thank you. Yavorovsky's last. Anything, please. All right, everybody, take your seats, respectable colleagues! Now we're going to vote on the inadmissibility decrees. Please take your seats. All of it. What does Yavorowski give? Nothing Javorovsky can tell anyone, please calm down. He has no right at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Here a young man over his shoulder threw that "our Ukraine's train has left." I want to confirm that the really Victor Yashchenka train "Our Ukraine" has gone and is gaining speed, and you remain on the platform with your primitive slogans and your sickle is still drinking the hammer. If you feel no pain, stay on this platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, according to the decree we make. Dear colleagues, according to the ruling we adopted yesterday, there is a point under which draft decrees on the non-admissibility of the draft Act amending the Constitution are put to the vote without discussion. That's why I'm putting the vote in order of coming. [[B in m in s a l in]] ) What? Dear colleagues, I ask you to be patient, for many of these documents. What? From the procedure? There's already a decision, no procedure. I'm asking you all to sit down, because you won't understand what this is about. I put to the vote draft decrees on the non-admissibility of the draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine. A lot of them, I'll put them in order. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of article 122 of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Constitution of Ukraine in article 71 of the Constitution of Ukraine is put to the vote. Registration number 4105-p3, author is the National Deputy Green. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[17:34:23]] For 20 The decision is not taken. I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote. I'll tell you what. The draft regulations that have been made by the factions of our Ukraine are withdrawing these draft decrees so that we don't vote. Dear colleagues! Now, the Counting Commission, if it's ready, then let the Counting Commission know that there are deputies. Let him make an announcement. If an announcement is made about the absence of a national MP by disease or by shipping or for other reasons, and he is present in the hall, please let the MP know about himself. And to that end, I ask you all to take your seats. Please take your seats. Please, Valérie Mishur, head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to calm down, because someone might not hear what they're saying and then there'll be claims. I have all the lists of national deputies of those who are on board, those who have registered, those who have not registered, those who are ill. But the thing is, let's say these lists don't match the real state of things that are in the hall. So I'm asking you and I'm sorry, I'm going to call the names of the deputies that I have on the list, and I'd like them to be marked whether they are or not. Because let's say I have the first Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, who's in a clinical hospital in Feofania, and she's here. I mean, I'm asking you to listen to me carefully, and we've agreed with the Counting Commission that we'll be on this list. So Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna is. Strtovic Volodymir Mikolajovic. Yes. Petnik Constantine Mercuryovich. None. One. Lovín Anatoly Ivanovich. Yes. Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich. Yes. Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich Yes. Karnauh Mikola Vasilovich. None. Oily Boris Illich. Yes. Boki. Yes. Chubarov. Yes. Quick. Yes. Belarus, I already told you. I'm Leonid Vasilovich. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u69	Please calm down. Is Leonid Vasilovich here?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u70	None. Cemilov. None. Next. Bespalov Oleg Pavlovich. Burjak Alexander Vasilovich. No, that's how he counts. There's no beeswax. Yes, Burjak Alexander Vasilovich. There's a barrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u71	I, my dear fellows, ask you not to shout together. Sit down and have the deputy named after him stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u72	Volkov Alexander Mikhailovich. He's incorruptible. A wolf. None. Zhivago Constantine Valentinovich. Klimov Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u73	Yeah, calm down, I'll check again. Everybody sit down and don't shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u74	Lyszczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u75	Is it climate?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u76	It's flattery. Feldman Alexander Borisovich. Feldman is. Chikal Adam Vasilovich. None. Spy Feder Ivanovich. Yes. Jankowski Mikola. Jankowski. Yes. Masurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u77	I'm asking everyone to sit down, Mazurenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u78	There's no mazuren. Savicski. None. Cassianenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u79	Well, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u80	None. Deminsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, let me write down the possibility, well, don't all shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u82	Bandoon. None. Tsquitshvili. Yes. Plums. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u83	There are ploughers, there are ploughers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u84	There are ploughers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u85	Yeah, he's a ploughman.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u86	Galiev. There's Galiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u87	There's Galiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u88	Gorbachev. None. Winter, no. Antonyeva. And the Ripper, there isn't. Next. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u89	Just a minute. It's a rattlesnake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u90	Blochin, no. Blochin, there is. Ivanov, no. So in the hall from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u91	Let's take another look at those lists that don't exist. Dear colleagues, one minute, attention. I'm asking everyone to take their seats now. All of them. No exceptions. There's only one head of the Counting Commission left. Until they're all in place, they won't work. The head of the Counting Commission and his deputy. Everyone's in position. Please sit down, everyone, and now we're going to re-call those people we didn't find in the hall. Please take your seats. Yuri Anatolyevich, take your seats. Everybody, please sit down. I'm asking everyone to sit down. Let's go again to those people that we found at the roll call, so to speak, in the session room. Let us take another look at this list to make a final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u92	And again. Vaszczuk, yes. Strutovich, yes. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u93	Those who don't exist, let's go through. Is there a change?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u94	None. Karnauh, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u95	Leonid Vasilovich? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u96	Cemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u97	Cemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u98	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u99	Wolf Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u100	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u101	Zivago.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u102	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u103	Is it Zhivago?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u104	None. Klimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u105	Klimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u106	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u107	Is the climate or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u108	There's no Klimov. Chickal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u109	Chickal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u110	None. Masurenko, no. Savicski, no. Cassianenko, no. Damiensky, no. Bandoon, no. Galeev, no. I'm sorry. Galiev, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u111	Bandoon, no. Galiev, there is. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u112	Yes. Gorbachev, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u113	Where's Gorbachev? Please get up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u114	No Gorbczov, no. No, it's not. Antonyev's gone. There's no scratcher. And Thursday's, they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u115	Well, please don't yell. Is Antonyeva there?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u116	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u117	Is it? Let's get her over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u118	That's how. But calm down, we've already fixed it. Yeah, we fixed it. Thus, calmly, of the 448 national deputies who have authority, the reckoning commission reports the absence of 18 national deputies. Thank you. [[Applause]] Another last name, now, a minute, is Tetian Drought? Yes. All of it. All right, there's a drought. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u119	I'm asking the calculus commission to draw up a document and give me a list of the missing ones so that we can make a decision to delete the cards. At the request of two factions, Communists, and Social Party, a break of 30 minutes is announced. I'd like to ask the leaders of MP groups and factions to gather in the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take all your seats, insert your cards, please sit down. I'm asking everyone to sit down. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to sit down. Can you sit down? It's the right moment. Please sit down, everyone. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Now we're going to run the registration, and then I'm going to make another roll call. Already, people have come to do so. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Please sit down. We will not be able to continue our work. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, let me inform you that during the Conciliation Council meeting, such a conclusion has been reached and that a proposal will be put to the vote. This will be put to the vote as a whole of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine with the following wording: "The amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine introduced by the Ukrainian Act of 8 April 2004, No. 1674-4, amending the Constitution of Ukraine take effect from the date of the entry into office of the President of Ukraine elected in the 2004 elections." People's deputies, please. From the procedure, please log in. Three minutes out of the procedure. [[I'm gonna say, well, I can't!]] Please, on the board. Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u121	The proposal that is now being made is consistent with the changes to the Constitution or not? Is it discussed by the commission or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u122	We, honourable colleagues, discussed this issue and concluded that, at the Conciliation Council, that the changes do not apply to the content of the Constitution of Ukraine, they apply to the Transitional Regulations, and this political will should be demonstrated in this respect by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, just at the Conciliation Council, were associated with the Constitutional Court, the Head of the Supreme Council. And the head of the Constitutional Court said that the judges of the Constitutional Court insisted that Transitional positions were a material part of the Constitution and could not be changed even to anyone. If the changes are being made, it is absolutely necessary to transfer to the Constitutional Court and to initiate a new procedure. Moreover, this change, which has just been announced, does not change the concept of these criminal changes to the Constitution. Our block and our Ukraine block will definitely not support this. Because if changes are made even with this little clarification, all the powers in the country are passed on to the clans that now live and are the only ones working in this country. Therefore, I ask under no circumstances to vote in favour of the changes to the Constitution. This is a treason of the state!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u124	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, let me guess. I probably know best what I'm talking about with the head of the Constitutional Court, so I'll keep you informed. The head of the Constitutional Court during the telephone conversation that I made on behalf of the Conciliation Council said his point of view that the issue was the subject of political arrangements. However, there may be differences of opinion, and today he cannot make a decision for the Constitutional Court. It was just a consultation. And what our decision will be, will be the decision of the Supreme Council. I think it'll be the law for everyone. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I draw your attention to the decision that was taken yesterday that regulates the order of discussion and decision on this matter. I'm drawing your attention to paragraph 5, if I'm not mistaken, paragraph 5 of this regulation, which I'm going to read as a whole. "During the consideration of the bill, no addition shall be made to it. Exclusion is not allowed." What you're proposing doesn't fit this decision, and that's why it can't be considered in that order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m1.u126	Yeah, time's up. Dear colleagues, I'm back. One minute. Now I'm going to announce a list of people who are missing. All of you who are present, sit down so that you can see who is in place. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Don't yell, I beg of you, dear colleagues. Cemiliev. Volkov, Zhivago. Is it Zhivago? I won't. Klimov. Chickal. Masurenko. Savicski. Cassianenko. [[From the hall. None.]] Diminsky. [[From the hall. None.]] Bandur. [[From the hall. None.]] Gorbachev. [[From the hall. None.]] Winter. [[From the hall. None.]] Antonyeva. [[From the hall. Yes.]] Yes. Ivanov. There is no John. Thursday's. [[From the hall. None.]] There are no 18 people. That's right. Dear colleagues! Now I'm asking everyone to register with a credit card. Then we'll find out who's registered. Please tell me who didn't have the card. People's deputies are requested to register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[18:28:54]] Registered -307 There are 307 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Of course, about the cards I called, clearly, the secretariat is asking you to do the right job, remove the cards. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! I've already called the names fixed, what else do you want from me? I am voting for approval in the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, with the following clarification: "Changes to the Constitution of Ukraine introduced by the Ukrainian law of 8 April 2004 No. 1674. There's a picker. Consider what the Ripper is. I've already given the secretariat not to take these cards into account. What do you want from me? Please take your seats. I'll take the vote, please! On the approval of the entire draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine introduced by the Ukrainian Act of 8 April 2004, No. 1674-4 "On Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine" and take effect on the date of the entry into office of the President of Ukraine elected in the 2004 elections. Please vote. [[18:30:35]] For 294 It's a faction. It's a faction. The factions, please. I know. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 60, communists - 58, Industrialists and entrepreneurs "Urban Ukraine" - 37, SDPU (o) - 38, SPO - 19, Block Timoshenko - 0, "The People's Government" - 17, "Deminicatives" - 16, Agrarian Party - 15, "The People's Choice" - 13, NDP - 14, non-fractional - 6. The decision is not taken. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
