ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:20]] A total of 428 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 16 November. 15 issues of the agenda, 17 bills have been considered. As a result of their consideration, three laws were passed in general, nine bills adopted in the first reading, and five bills were rejected. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. LeonidaS CERNOVECH to the Prime Minister for failure by the Government of the Supreme Council Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the State and Formation of Prices and Tariffs in the Housing and Utilities Sector. Georgia BUIKA to the Prime Minister for the support of law enforcement authorities in the fight against organized crime in Kiev. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister on the motivation and purpose of the need for information on the absence or availability of justice in citizens wishing to obtain foreign passports and on the justification of the requirements for additional payment of these procedures. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Policy to ensure the proper implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister on the inaction of local self-government authorities in the provision of water for housing in the village of Ingulec in the Belozer district of Herson. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the villages of Wilha and Mala Tokarovka in the region of Žitomir. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister for the solution of problems related to the gasification of some of the Winnicki district’s population. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister for the threat of significant loss of corn crops in the current year, which has hampered the process of stabilizing the animal industry. Tamara Proscuratio to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds from the State budget for the completion of the construction of the medical and health complex and the dining room for students of the Donetsk Law Institute of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister for delaying the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding a letter from the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning a situation involving inter-economic property. Mr. Mikoli Karnauha to the Prime Minister on the problems of land use in the area of the Bela Rural Council of the Kotelev Region of Poltava. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister about the allocation of health funds in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Mr. Aleksandra CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister for the forecasting of the 2005 budget of the target budget for the renovation of the Herson College of Name Eugene Malanjuk. Romana ZVARIČA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, on the financing of the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of the Supreme District of Ivano-Frankov Region. BORISA HOT TO THE Prime Minister on the irresponsibility and inaction of the authorities of the executive branch of the Chutov district of Poltava to provide housing for a multi-child mother. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister for the financial support of the Luhansk Regional Centre for Early Social Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Fuel and Energy, in connection with the disruption of the work schedule of coal companies in connection with the deployment of working miners to the rally to support the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister on the inadequacy of the current legislation of the Cabinet of Ministers decision “To improve the efficiency of the public procurement system”. GEORGIA MANCHULEKA to the Prime Minister on the unsatisfactory implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the National System of Confidential Liaison. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council, Prosecutor General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the brutal, illegal intervention of the leadership of the Lviv authorities, the Tax Administration, the militia, the International Registration and Examination Department, the Western Regional Customs, the Automobile Enterprises, the Railways, the Forest Farms, the Social Sector Enterprises in the Election Process in Lviv. Georgia BUYKA to the Prime Minister on the formal review of parliamentary requests for pressure on law enforcement authorities by corrupt groups of citizens and officials, as well as the abuse of the official position of certain officials of the Attorney General's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of the city of Kiev. MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Prime Minister for correcting the wrong decision to transfer a multi-profile sanatorium for parents with children to the “North Coast” in the city of Aluupka from the Ministry of Health to the Attorney General’s Office. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Chief Audit and Audit Authority for the Inappropriate Social and Labour Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities by View, the Implementation of Their Creative and Productive Skills and the Development of Enterprises of the Ukrainian Blind Association as a result of the purposeless use of budget funds on the basis of the Yaltin Education and Production Enterprise, the cessation of violations by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Supreme Council Decision of 3 December 1998 on measures to improve the social protection of persons with disabilities. Mikoli Shershun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers for failure to pay compensation in 2003 for unused sanatorium trips to residents of the province of Riveznov, who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on taking into account the proposals for the allocation of an additional subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects. Anatoly of KZŁOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the financing of preparatory work for the construction of the bridge crossing through the South Bug of the City of Mikolai. GREGORY TO THE First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the financing of the development programme of the Herson College of Name Eugene Malanuk. Mr Ivan SCHEDULE to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economics and European Integration, Minister for Emergency Situations on the Critical Water Supply Situation in the village of Cherneč Freedom in the district of the district of Susma. Anatolia KZLOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the financing of free hospital and outpatient treatment for disabled persons and pensioners. Vladimir LECHENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on the state of recovery and provision of medical treatment for citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. SLABENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco for the provision of the disabled family, residents of the city of Novovolinsk Volinsk, by special transport. Mr Michael VOLINC to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Prosecutor-General for the violation of the rights of landowners and property owners of the village of Tarasovka in the region of Kyiv. Vitalia ŠIBKA to the Attorney General on the abuse of the position of official of the local self - government body, the failure to respond and the failure to take action on the previous petitions of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the gross violation by the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration of Ukrainian legislation. VYACHILA KOVALJA to the Attorney General on the violation of the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of the President of Ukraine” by the head of the District Electoral Commission No. 67 of the territorial constituency No. 30 of the city of Dniprožinska and its involvement in criminal responsibility. Mr. Vladimir YAVORISKY and Mr. YULTHYAK to the Attorney-General for the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Lenin district of Vinnice, the Prosecutor's Office of the Vinnitsky district, in the violation of the criminal case of gang rape by unknown foreign citizens of the 17-year-old resident of the Kozyatin district of Winnitsky. Andrija SKILJA to the Attorney General on the illegal involvement of the Prosecutor's Office in the commercial activities, inspections and arrests of the head of the Victoria, Slavotic, Colossus. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General for biased treatment of the results of the election of the President of Ukraine and for the discovery of the alleged criminal cases by the Public Prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankov region. John STATION to the Attorney General on the need to verify the sources of funding for the “Russian Club” in Kiev and the legality of the location of the information centre of the “Russian Club” in the “Ukrainian House”. VITALY SIBKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, for the purpose of providing false information to Ukraine’s national deputy and for failing to take action on previous appeals. JOURIA KLECHKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the illegal actions of the administration of the Men’s Correctional Colony No. 91 in the Chernigiv region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney-General on the critical situation that has arisen in the open stock company “New Ukraine Sugar Plant” on the legality of the realisation of his property. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General regarding the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens and the overriding of their official powers by members of the Dniprodžinska Police Department. Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General for the intervention of the civil servant, Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of the Ministers of Power, in the election process for the Kyrovograd constituency No. 100 with the aim of falsifying the results of the second round of the election of the President of Ukraine. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation by the law enforcement authorities of constitutional rights and the legitimate interests of the Open Shareholder Society of the Security Transformer. [[ARTHEMENCO, THE DELIVERY, THE WORKER, THE SOLOJEV]] GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of State Security for the conduct of an objective investigation into the so-called assassination of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the Ivano-Frankov region. Victor TEREN to the Attorney General for the violation of the criminal case under articles 157 and 159 of the Criminal Code for violating the rights of citizens by officials of meat and other enterprises in Suma by forcing workers to take strong voting cards and give them direction. Jury PAVLENKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of interference with the activities of the State actor, the exaggeration of power by the State Executive Service of the Shevchenkov District Department of Justice of Kiev and the South West Railway and Transportation Police. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General, the head of the CEVK on the violations of Ukrainian legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine in the territorial constituency No. 30 of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk district. Stéphane HMARA to the Attorney General on the invocation of the responsibility of the Berkut militia and the heads of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Sumskia area for the unlawful use of special forces and the beating of citizens at the Kovpak District Court of Suma on 13 November 2004. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the inaction of police personnel with regard to ensuring order and preventing illegal activity in the markets of Chernigova. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the award of computer classes to the Schools of Health and Tetires in the area of Zitomir. Ms. KASJANOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the review of the actions of the heads of the Department of State Security at the Department of Internal Affairs in the Kharkiv Region and the Chuguyiv District Department of the UMS of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region. Valeria Assadcheva to the Minister of Justice, Minister of Internal Affairs, Prosecutor of Kiev City, Head of the Dniprovsky District State Administration in Kiev regarding the search for a Ukrainian citizen, Georgi Thošević. The wealthier’s Paradises to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of information on health care facilities at the expense of the State Budget in 2004. Mr. Vladimir NOVACA to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Passporting, a citizen of Ukraine who lives in Spain. Ms. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for refusing to commit a criminal offence on the grounds that a citizen was injured by a staff member of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kirovograd region. Mikli KUHARCHUCA to the Ministry of Defence for the payment of work done from the reconstruction of the barracks of the city of Dubno Plains area under the residence for military personnel. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison in connection with illegal actions by officials of the “Urzlazlaznica” forcing railways to obtain strong licences for re-voting in the election of the President of Ukraine, demanding that they be given leadership along with passports. JOURIA PAULENKA to the Minister of Justice regarding the unlawful actions of the State’s Executive Department of the Shewchenkow District Department of Justice in Kiev. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOV to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of assistance in the treatment of a minor with disabilities and the group. MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Ministry of Health on the cessation of illegal actions by officials of certain authorities and health institutions in Kiev, Kirovograd, Luhansk, Zakarpatski, Donetsk and Žitomir regions during the 2004 election campaign of the President of Ukraine. Vladimir NOVAK to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the delay in the investigation of a criminal case involving the murder of a village of the city type New Ušica Hmělnické district. MICHELLA to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets on individual articles on the draft licensing conditions for compulsory civil liability insurance of land transport owners. Mikli Karnauha to the Head of the Dnipropetrov district government regarding the cessation of offences in the use of state property. GREGORY TO THE Head of the Herson District State Administration for the promotion of the opening and the activity of the public reception of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Ms. Alexander TRETIJAKOVA to the Head of State Customs for failure by the Chopper Customs to execute the decision of the Uzhgorod District Court. LeonidaS CERNOVECH to the Head of the Kiev City Administration, the city prosecutor of Kiev, for the conditions of spending the city’s budget on the purchase of a plane. Ally ALEKSANDROVSKI to the Head of Government of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the gasification of the Kharkiv district’s population. Stepan HMARA to the Head of CBC, the heads of the Territorial Electoral Commissions, to provide information on the number of ballots to be re-elected in the election of the President of Ukraine and their use. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Head of the Supreme Court on the problems of dealing with citizens'appeals by the courts of the Supreme Court. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the State Tax Administration, Head of the Supreme Economic Court for the unlawful alienation of the property of the Supreme Council, the Glycinium Pension, the arbitrary reconstruction of buildings, the destruction of old-fashioned plantings and the non-derogation of the delay, the gravity and neglect of the state interests of the management and judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal in the case of the pension property legal regime. SLABENKA to the Prosecutor of the Volin Region for the verification of compliance with the applicable law in the granting of an apartment to the deputy head of the Volin district government. Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on dissatisfaction with the Ministry of Education's response to the parliamentary address, author of National Deputy Jaroslav Suchy. To the minister. Victor PINZENIKA to Attorney General Vasiliev for the criminal offence against the citizen of Mereshtak, who lives in the village of Vishte Lubjanka of the Zbari district of Ternopil district for the fact that there has been a multiple vote in favour of a reinforced licence at Districts No. 27 and 29 of the territorial constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Victor PINZENIKA to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence of citizen Zwiagnchev, who lives in the village of Brezne Odessa, for the fact that there has been multiple ballots for hard-core certificates at District No. 29, No. 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Attorney-General on the offence of the citizen of Koh in 1961 of his birth in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, for the fact that he repeatedly voted for hard-core certificates at District No. 29, 85 of the territorial constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of the citizen of Zubrickýk in 1962 of his birth in Kiev, for the fact that he repeatedly voted for hard-core certificates at Districts No. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Mr. Tomenka told the Attorney General about the criminal offence against the citizen of Vašilnik, who lives in Dnipropetrovsk, for the fact that he repeatedly voted for reinforced certificates at Districts Nos. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General for the violation of a criminal case involving a citizen of Kilisov in 1978, who lives in the city of Zdolbonov in the Plains region, for the fact that he repeatedly voted for reinforced certificates at Districts No. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. JOURY KJUCHKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against a citizen of Lisovské in 1978, who lives in the city of Zdolbonowy of the Plain region, for the fact that there has been a repeated vote in favour of the reassurances at Districts No. 29 and 85 of the territorial constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. JURY KLJECKOVSKI TO THE U.S. Attorney - General of Ukraine for a criminal offence involving a citizen of Chumak, who lives in Kiev, for the fact that he has repeatedly voted for strong certificates at Districts Nos. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Alexander ZINCHENKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence of Conyushka, born in 1969 in the Babushkinsk district of Dnipropetrovska, for the fact that he repeatedly voted for hard-core certificates at Districts No. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Mr. Alexander ZINZENKA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence against the citizen of Pavlenko, who lives in the city of Odessa, for the fact that he has repeatedly voted for hard-core certificates at Districts No. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Mr. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal offence against a citizen of Kozik, who lives in the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska, for the fact that he repeatedly voted for the reassurance of the territorial constituency number 167 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the criminal offence against the citizen of Mladchenk, born in 1976, who lives in Kiev on the basis of a repeated vote for reinforced certificates at Districts No. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a criminal offence involving a Polish citizen, 1960, who lives in Odessa for multiple ballots for hard-core certificates at Districts Nos. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case involving a citizen of Baklan in 1983, who lives in Kiev on the basis of a repeated vote for a hard-core certificate at Districts No. 29 and 85 of the district constituency No. 166 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. All parliamentary requests have been made. That's all there are, your honors, 92 MPs. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 45, Communist faction - 12, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, "Ukrainian Social Democratic Party - 1, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, "National Agrarian Party - 5, "Socialist Party - 9, "Timoshenko - 10" - 1, "Soyuz" - 1, "NDP, "Industry" - 1, "Centre" - 2, "O" - 2. [[united]] So there's only 92 MPs. Let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions. Yes, Bogdan Hubsky, "The only Ukraine" is invited to speak. Prepare Igor Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to remind you that 21 November is not just the date of the second round of presidential elections in Ukraine. On November 21, Ukrainian society traditionally celebrates the day of an agricultural worker, honoring farmers whose contributions to the development of the state cannot be overestimated. This coincidence is symbolic, for Ukraine has the attractive face of the human race. And the village is not only a producer of agricultural products but also a reliable foundation for Ukrainian mentality, a keeper of the nation’s genetic memory. The Ukrainians were and will be, above all, farmers. It's the main haircut of the ethnic consciousness of our identity in this diverse world. So on the eve of holidays, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to all those who, by their conscientious work on ropes, farms, dowry, scientific and educational establishments, in rural schools, clubs, libraries, and medical institutions, increase the material and spiritual values of our people. I wish them happiness, health, favor of fate, wealth, favorable weather, and weighty crops from the heart. First of all, thanks to their work, their work creation can now be seen to be positive in the work of the national agro-industry complex. These positive changes are a fact, but their further development depends on you, your colleague, your work, because positive changes need first and foremost serious legislative support. And in that we should not interfere with any political sympathy or antipathy. It is necessary to clearly define, by law, what I emphasize, the basic methods and mechanisms of interaction in the country-consumer triangle, namely: to establish transparent rules on the agricultural market, balance the price mechanism for agricultural production and its means of production, to establish a system of state subsidies for agricultural producers, to refer to domestic agricultural machinery, to reorient the village's needs for the production of mineral fertilizers, to apply the activities of all hand-carrying factories and, most importantly, to raise the income of peasants and to help with cheap loans, so that the village is built to employ young people and a mass generation of Ukrainians. In spite of any political opposition, let us first look for the motivations of national integration and work for Ukraine alone. The election of life does not end, the presidents come and go, and Ukraine remains. Work for Ukraine, your honor, for Ukraine alone! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u3	Igor Alexeyev from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is thus invited to speak. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, on November 15, I visited one of the countries that recently became a member of the so - called European Democratic Unions, NATO and the European Union, with my colleague, Grachev. We visited the Republic of Lithuania, not for a tourist purpose, but for a second attempt, I stress that the first was made in June 2004 -- and failed, to meet with a political prisoner, the first secretary of the Central Committee of Lithuania, Mikolas Marinović Burakjavicus, who has been behind bars on fabricated charges for 11 years. This courageous man, who was 77 years old on October 7, who had already suffered three heart attacks while in prison, refused to apply for pardons to President Adamkus of Lithuania. The reason is simple: If an innocent person asks for his pardon, he admits his guilt and does not exist. That is the way democracy stands in the countries of the European Union, another example of the implementation of double standards that we can observe. It's when Brussels and Washington determine that in one country or another the world is democratic and not. Ukraine has already had the experience of applying such double standards to it. It's when the Communist Party was illegally banned in 1991 and its activists were persecuted in the years to come, that in 1999, with silence, Europeans acknowledged the results of the presidential elections in our country, which were franticly falsified, that is, today, when political forces, including nationalist interpretation, go to power, and the United States and European structures, without hiding, make a statement that the candidate is in charge of the presidency of Ukraine and will democratically follow the U.S. instructions, as was the case in the case of the sending of the Ukrainian contingent to Iraq to defend the pervasive reputation of the universal gendarm. But, dear colleagues, remember what happened a few years ago when the nationalist Haider party came to power in Austria. Europe has practically declared Austria a blockade. When the same political power in France received 17 percent of the French vote, the European Union declared furiously that there was a threat of Fascism in the vicinity of democracy - France. As a result, I ask myself and all of us. When were the European Union and US Democrats open then or now? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u5	John Sidorovich Boki is invited from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u6	Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. "The presidential electoral campaign in Ukraine highlighted 2 undeniable trends: the will of the people to change power and their role in organizing state life in Ukraine and the cynical use of administrative resources and dirty electoral technologies to preserve the criminal regime, the removal of people from the active role in solving the problem of changing the political system and the removal of oligarchik clans from government control. In the first round, the people preferred opposition, to those political forces that protected its interests, the interests of Ukrainian statehood. Second round of presidential elections. The race determines Ukraine's fate many years in advance. If elected president of the candidate for Kuchma and the criminal clans, Ukraine will continue to be doomed to permanent economic extinction, secession from the civilized world, the extinction of the people and the riot of reaction. The presidential election of a candidate from opposition gives Ukraine and its people a chance to meet the constitutional requirements for free medicine, education, to put the economy in service, not with money bags, but with the people and the state. Socialists don't play pyjamas with power and people. We do not claim how some who do not support any of the candidates, while in places these political forces are actively working to win Yanukovich. A socialist party said six years ago that it was against the regime of banditry, which had killed millions of Ukrainians and had condemned the famine of three quarters of the people and remained faithful to its political line of removal from power of criminal oligarchy. Just out of the need for the liberation of Ukraine from the armpits of the Bandocracy, the Socialist Party supported Victor Yushchenk's candidacy in the second round. He has put in his program the fundamental principles and requirements of socialists in the economic, social and political spheres, the political reform with the narrowing of the presidency and the expansion of Parliament's rights, the real guarantee of economic growth, the prohibition of the sale of land for agriculture, the withdrawal of the economy from the shadows, the rise of wages and pensions, the withdrawal of our military from Iraq, cooperation and good relations with our neighbours. First of all, with Russia and the countries of the European Union. President Viktor Yushchenk's election, meeting the demands of the Socialists, makes it possible to change the situation in Ukraine for the better, to tear it out of the criminal clan. In these circumstances, we call on the police, the Security Service, the army to side with the people, not to be involved in any adventures of political bankruptcy and criminal clans against democracy, the free will of the peoples. We also believe that the following week, after the elections to ensure democratic control over the vote, the Supreme Council should work in the sessionary regime. The fate of Ukraine in your hands, citizens of Ukraine, do not give it away to thieves from power, protect it with your voice, your will, protect yourself and your family.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u7	Jaroslav Suhi is invited from the MP's "Trudova Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! First of all, those who are concerned about the neglected state of the national Ukrainian language, its stigma. I congratulate you in the net of our palament. In the transition to normal human English, that means welcome to the Supreme Council Hall. More and more, people simply do not understand what some TV sets and radio detectors say. According to particularly advanced newspapers, for several years Ukrainians have been forced to wear pearls such as: "listen, for now, a band, a militia, a ring, an airfield, a nation" and their similar language creatures are not allowed to know where. Now Chevchenka, John - Frank, Olesia Potter, Lena Kostenko, Boris Oliynika, has a chorus of linguistic divisions. The group, it's a group known in the narrow circles of national-conscious intellectuals, initiates a kind of chestnut revolution in Ukrainian language. The principle of reform is simple, as a menu of a private dinner with a raw fish and a bush. The established natural Ukrainian word, although similar to the bloody Moscow, is ruthlessly expelled, sorry, is expelled away, and it is introduced, guess what Polish word is. I'm talking to representatives of industrial regions. Especially those companies that together with us VAT "Motor." Funding the creation of a Ukrainian dictionary of technical terms. Guys, we're out of work. What do you think, according to the purpose of the polytre, the lingoformers will mean the word "early"? Write it down. From now on, the word "lead" will be called lead. As far as the usual lead is concerned, it becomes "tiny", and here the alloy of metals will continue to be called "stop." From the native Polish "topic", that is, swimming. These erzac replacements are offering the whole book, right in front of you. God forbid the dream of pseudopatriots is realized, then in the early classes, instead of teachers, they'll teach "dedicals," births will be accepted, not by midwives, but by "poisons." I don't bring other masterpieces out of this book just for the sake of humanism. They can only be understood by the sound of noise, or new vodka. I'll remind you with an idea. The language, to tear it away from the Kyiv-Russian roots, to eliminate similarities with Russian and Belarusian are borne by Mr. Yushchenk's supporters. And right now they're screaming from the hall because they're already in pain. After showing their failure in the economic field, these same politicians began to abuse language. It won't work. We have protected the people of Ukraine from the bankrupt, incompetent government officials in 2001 by sending them to the embroidery, that is, to Yashchenk's resignation, and now we will protect them from the overly polished adhesions of the vast compatriots of Ukrainian language, the legacy of our ancestors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u9	We invite Mikola Shershun from the National Agrarian Party. Prepare Andrew School
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun, National Agrarian Party of Ukraine On behalf of the faction, I would like to warmly welcome the workers of the village with a professional holiday, to wish happiness, good, good crops, with the active support of our nation. And now for a statement. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, each of the following documents that we accept with you in this room must be better than before. Regrettably, the budget project for the following year has again made mistakes this year that should be corrected. The People’s Agrarian Party faction draws Parliament’s attention to article 47 of the project, which determines that the purchase of Chernobyl treatment travel, the purchase of drugs and medical equipment for this category will be centralized again. The passing year has shown that such a centralized approach is unearmarked. First, this year's healing process began with a five-month delay. The reason for the delay in tendering procedures and the untimely financing of transportation costs, which has also increased twice. And the percentage of healthy Chernobyls, such as in Lviv, has doubled to less than 5 percent. Secondly, local health bases were at risk, 60 percent of which were not active. Instead, people were offered trips for three nine lands, the first of which were refused by the disabled, whose health does not allow them to travel that far. Thirdly, this policy has not resulted in any presidential and government document on the healing of the Chernobyl population. The same is true of the purchase of medicines and medical equipment. Ordering areas is out of the question. And the delay in the tender led to the fact that the region’s long-term period, such as the Chernigiv region, was left entirely without the necessary medications, as reported by the head of the Coordinating Board of Trade Unions in the area. Dear colleagues, this issue has been repeatedly raised by the faction of the People’s Agrarian Party, other factions, but the problem has not been solved, as it has been observed even after the intervention of Kabmin and the Attorney General’s Office. It seems that the situation is personal. So our faction proposes to remove from article 47 of the Ukrainian draft State Budget Act 2005 the words "centralized" and completely second paragraph, by introducing it in the following edition: approve the 2005 budgetary targets for the implementation of the programme for the rehabilitation of affected citizens and the comprehensive health care of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster in accordance with Appendix 5 of the Act. Please consider the text of this statement as a question to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u11	Andrew School from Julia Timoshenko’s block is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u12	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! First of all, I want to welcome you to Student Day. Because this day is primarily linked to the celebration of those young people who opposed the regime. Let me remind you that the student's Day was initiated in the Czech Republic in 1939, when it was occupied by German-Fashistic invaders. It was then that the Czech students became, and that is when they went out to protest against the existing regime in the Czech Republic. And that protest ended with the shootings of the students. Over two thousand teachers were sent to concentration camps. Over one and a half thousand students followed them together. Today’s regime in Ukraine does not shoot students, but it is already being prepared. He's putting tanks in the students' tanks right now. In the form of tanks, buses come out because the sum students were traumatized during the protest they started in connection with the mass arrests of students who took part in the defense of democracy. Students who objected to usurping the right of both the student and any young person and any person in Ukraine to express their right and vote in elections. They opposed the kidnapping of their voices. They opposed the use of the teachers who went to serve the existing regime. And I'm stressing that right now in Ukraine, we're not just dealing with random people who have temporarily taken power into their own hands. We are dealing with people who have completely usurped everything. The law, the court, the law, the Constitution, the morals, everything is submerged. And at this time of gas poisoning, the students were being gassed when they came out to protest in the streets. Beating them up with a new democrat. Let's remember that rubber rod that was constantly used in the early '90s and in the late '80s is now also used as the main general argument of the existing regime. I want to point out that in place of these students, by the way, they just went out on a protest, protecting their colleagues, instead of this student, they could have been your children, your grandchildren, and they could be there, no matter where you are right now, because young people are solid, young people have come out to defend democracy, and they're not going to stop. I want to call on all those who are now trying to use young people to fake the election, force them to take a hard-on, are now being forced to take a hard-on at the Tax Administration, and the Santa Claus tax collectors, the Lviv region, are protesting. So I demand that a representative of the CLTC speak here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u13	Yes, it's Michael Tomenko from the faction of "Our Ukraine." Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to say, on behalf of Victor Yushchenka's bloc, "Our Ukraine," that if the first round of the presidential election campaign was the main instrument and weapon of power and bandits, then the second round was the worst, the authorities decided to use the school and the church as a tool. Today, teachers are under a fantastic press and walk on their parents and tell them that they will be expelled from their jobs if they fail to ensure the proper outcome of the elections. Today, teachers no longer read school subjects, but they tell us how to act and what to do. But the saddest thing that has happened in Ukraine since the days of Stalin was, in fact, a blow to the church as a moral authority. Today, authorities with taxpayers and police repeat Stalin’s history in relation to the church. Today, there has been a terrible blow to the moral and spiritual authority of the church. The tax police are turning the church into literature, not from Yanukovich or from Yushchenk, and it is turning churches into literature against human dignity, against morals, against Ukraine’s unity. Today, priests are not simply forced to pray for Yanukovich. They are already putting up prayers from Yanukovic, and today icons with Yanukovic have appeared in the churches. I have a question: Can those who exercise authority in places not understand that such a spiritual foundation of a country as the Church cannot violate the Constitution and its Bible - based Gospel constitution cannot run, acquiesce, and stutter, acquiescing for one candidate or another? I would like to remind you all of the Bible’s accounts: you know, Noah had three sons, Sim, Ham, and Japheth, and when Noah fell asleep, one of his sons Ham joyfully told of what a father looked like when he was naked. He stole his clothes and left. And when Noah woke up and said, "From Sim and Japheth shall take the beginning of good men, and from you, Ham, the slaves of their slaves." Early in the century, intelligents warned of the danger of Ham’s arrival. In Ukraine, during the presidential election campaign, a man incarcerated as president is named Ham. I would like to turn to the priests and to the people: think not of yourself, think of Ukraine, and think of the future of your children.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u15	The word is Basil Nadrag from the MP's Alliance, to prepare Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u16	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk Region, Alliance of Deputies. Dear colleagues! I will allow myself to express the views of the MPs of the Alliance on an important and relevant topic for today's situation, such as the escalation of violence and tensions in society. Regrettably, the upcoming elections and 21 numbers are not the end of the history of an independent Ukraine, there is no end to the history of society, there is no end to the history of the people. Life will continue. But the question is what life is like and what we will come to if the basic approaches that some today declare in their election campaign and the methods that are imposed on society are far from civilized. Let me give you some examples. From this rostrum has already been suggested to someone to hang on the agitating scarfs. I witnessed Junior Chernobyl after his critical speech, advised him to shoot himself or shoot himself in the hall. I watched TV when one of the candidates said that everything was great and good, but "Get up and clear your shoulders and get ready for war." I listened to the Fifth Channel yesterday, when the same candidate on his beloved Fifth Channel, who had not yet received the results of 21 numbers, had already called people out. Where are we going with you? What do we call people? And what do we want to achieve? I want to tell you that even when I met with the veterans of the Great Homeland War, I was in the district of the people who had fought the war, and I heard the concern that pushing us to the military, to the physical, any kind of violence is unacceptable, no matter what ideals we have with you. And that's why today, to everyone who's in the way, including today, I want to express my opinion, I want to say the words of Pushkin. You like to blame the opponents, but Pushkin said, "You see a straw in someone's eyes, and you can't see a log in your eyes." God with your eyes! Allah is with the loins and the garbage that protects your eyes. But I urge you not to push society into violence, because there is no one, not even the holy idea, for which you can pay not only with violence, but more with human blood. So let's do it again. If we want to be a civilized European country, elections will come and go, life will remain. And in this life, we would like to know and understand that the measure of our responsibility is to maintain stability, preserve and improve the lives of the population, but not to push it to violence in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u17	Sergey Slabenko from the Deputy Group "Centre" is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Konovaluku. And Gabrieluk will be speaking from the Centre. I'm sorry, Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable fellow members of the Central Electoral Commission, distinguished Bureau! At first glance, it is easy and easy to speak today. I think the situation is clear. The CLTC has so many claims that only everyone in turn remains, sorry for the phrase, the full programme. Admitting it's worth it. After the first round, the CEVC questioned the possibility of an honest, open and impartial voter count in Ukraine. It is the CEVC's fault that no one believes in the official figures: neither the supporters nor the supporters of the other candidate. I am speaking here as a representative of the Centre Group, and I wish to stress our principled position is to win, first of all, the Ukrainian society, to win our democracy, to make it stronger, so that every electorate is convinced: the elections are legal, just and the winner of whoever it is is is the winner of the real, completely legitimate one. We are well aware of all the difficulties faced by CLTC today. We respect the work of those of his representatives who are working on the side of the law, but each member of the CLTC must be fully aware: once some misunderstandings have begun, some inexplicable pauses, public confidence has quickly been lost. Our basic position in the lead of the second round is that the CBC, the nose blood, must do everything to make the second round more orderly than the first. The entire chain of action of the electoral commissions from the electoral commissions of the precincts to the CEC should be re-examined and the various manipulations stopped. The second paragraph is very important, because it is impossible to focus today on all the details, and I would like to emphasize the ever-increasing one. increasing conversations about the number of so-called, hard-copy certificates or printed coupons. The figures are already 2.5 million, 4.5 million. So let's find out where the truth really is. Why is there unprecedented pressure on the ground today? Maybe someone will say it's not true. But today, in the Chercassian House, for refusing to deliver or to deliver a reassurance card, they warned him, "You'll be on the street!" We know that there are already cases where the deputies' apartments are being set on fire just because they don't agree to bring those ballots today. And what I'm trying to say is that these examples are happening all over the place today. I therefore ask Vladimir Mihajlović of the “Centre” Group to address the Ukrainian people, the members of the electoral territorial commissions, the law enforcement authorities to prevent the falsification of the second round of the President of Ukraine, strict compliance with the law, to address the citizens of Ukraine on central television UT-1. Only then will democracy win, only then will the law prevail, and the President will be legitimately elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u19	Valerius Konovaluk will be speaking from the faction of "Ukraine" and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] And since then, he's got six minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Dear radio listeners! It has been nearly two months since this Hall was charged with deliberately assaulting a candidate for presidentship of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. The Supreme Council set up a commission of inquiry and assumed the responsibility to say all that and to find the truth before the presidential election ended. We realize that an important issue has been dealt with all the time in such a way as to really find the truth and lead to the national MPs and to the Ukrainian people. Over the past two months, we've felt everything: the pressure, the threats, the stopping of the commission's work, and I want to say that the discredit that took place at the head of the interim commission of inquiry, the candidate offered by the faction "Our Ukraine" has no precedents, let's say. Let me remind you that our commission studied all the circumstances, got all the answers, got all the experts involved. We have not only received forensic expertise from a native but also from a foreign country. I want to say that we planned on Monday to consider the finality and approve the report of the commission’s chairman. We believe that this should happen in the circumstances that Victor Yushchenk's statement about trying to poison his small resonance in society and obviously affected the number of votes cast for that candidate on October 31st in the first round of elections. I have to prove that, for the moment, the interim commission of inquiry can make a certain report and testify to the circumstances of this whole problem. The results of the work should be reported by the commission and only by the parliamentary rostrum. Taking into account the importance of the topic in shaping society’s thinking on the moral face of candidates for the highest public office, the Commission’s report should certainly only be made available during the current plenary week. In particular, the documents of the Vienna Clinic concerning the details of Victor Yushchenk’s illness were handed over to the Commission, not by the goodwill of Viktor Andriyovich himself, but only by the decision of the Vienna Land Court. This proves once again that the party that tried to create everything in order to destroy society, in order to recognize a certain resonance in the world, is trying to hide the truth. Dear People's Deputies, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" claims that the organizer and ideologist of this provocation was, unfortunately, Mr. Zinchenko, the deputy head of the Supreme Council, the head of Victor Yushchenko's electoral headquarters. But he didn't stop there, he blames Ukraine for using biological weapons. We want to go again, not just to the Supreme Council, to the Attorney General's Office to give a legal assessment of these irresponsible statements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again: the Ukrainian people must know the truth and today the statement by the leaders of the 6th Deputies, the presidential elections, I will read it: the presidential elections in Ukraine are entering a decisive phase, and we cannot but express our position in relation to one particular feature of this year's company. Recent events, including expert findings, have shown that the health of one of Victor Yushchenka’s candidates is of serious concern. Don't bother. [[B in m in s a l in]] In view of this, we, the leaders of the parliamentary factions, are six parliamentary factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u22	I want to conclude by saying that I resemble Mr. Zinchenko's term in 2002, when he said "oursm" won't pass. Now he's pushing this "usism" into power, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I want to tell you again, we will consistently defend our position, the interests of our citizens, our constituents. We will prove the truth to the community in Parliament and what was happening around Victor Yushchenk’s health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u23	Yes. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Let's not break up. They didn't call it a last name for one minute. I'm asking you to calm down. I'll do it again. Honorable national MPs were called names. Well, me. I'm asking you to calm down. A member of the faction is speaking, he's teaching the faction's position or his personal position. His name was Alexander Zinchenko. Zinchenko's got a minute on the line. Please calm down. Your last name wasn't called, no, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] The faction wasn't called, calm down. It was called a last name. Your last name didn't ring a bell. Calm down. Please, please, everything. Only a national MP has the right. Who? The faction is not called.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out right now that Mr. Konovaluk has long held a position of rude laity before the authorities and before Viktor Yanukovic. You, Konovaluk, are a layman, you're a fraud because you've been manipulating other people for a long time. You're accusing me. You tried to get into Yushchenka's room when he was in CPR and set up a Yushchenk interrogation. You claimed when you went to the rostrum that you had enough evidence. You don't have any evidence. You don't have any papers. You don't have a conscience. You have no honor. For you have gone up to the rostrum to prove that you are like a footman and a footman, to whom you have entered into the covenant of this authority, you will go up into this rostrum only to prove what you have. The Prime Minister today has the opportunity to address all media outlets with his reports. He has no personal opinion. You just want to turn Victor Yushchenk's dirt on. Know that you will not succeed. You don't have any papers, you don't have a conscience! So I insist that Konovaluk's lineup should have a legal conclusion. I'm turning around with a proper call to the Attorney General's Office to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u25	Microphone. All of it. Thank you. Sit down, calm down, distinguished national MPs. Sit down, calm down. Calm down, please. Do you want to cancel the meeting? Let's crash. I'm reading. Dear national MPs, one minute. Can you listen? Calm down. Honorable National MPs. I read article 3.8.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please listen carefully to those who do not teach the Rules. If the MP feels that the speaker or chairman at the meeting misinterprets his words or actions, he may appeal in writing to the presiding officer at a meeting asking him to give the floor for explanations or comments. Following such a statement, the chairman at the meeting gives the MP the floor immediately or at the end of the discussion, but to the vote. In the latter case, the chairman of the meeting shall immediately inform the deputies of the coming of such a request from the deputy and of the time when he shall be given the floor. Do you want to keep reading? I don't think that's necessary. I emphasize once again, the MP is right, MP. When they mention their last name. The MP didn't mention his last name. Honorable national deputies, according to the requirements of two factions and according to the Rules. One minute, calm down. I'm telling you again. In accordance with the Rules, honourable national MPs are required to declare a recess and hold meetings of the Conciliation Council. This is in line with the Rules. The Rules require two or more factions to meet with the Conciliation Board. A break of 30 minutes is announced. The leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u26	We'll continue the meeting. Now, maybe I'll let you know first, I'll let you know, and then I don't rule out that you're all out of need, so to speak. Dear colleagues, on demand, as you know, at the request of two factions, and then on the move, it became clear that at the request of four factions, two other factions -- the Socialists and the Center Group -- had already submitted an application for a recess. [[First, we applied for the faction "Our Ukraine" and the block of Julia Timoshenko]] In the process of holding the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we would give the floor to information from the Socialists and the Center Group, on which they took the break, and I will inform you of the decision of the Conciliation Council. And then we're going to figure out how we're going to continue to work with you. Please, who's from? Nicolanca, three minutes. Yes, please, Nicholas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u27	. Victor Yushchenka's expedition to the state firm Press is a unit called Krušta refused to deliver this newspaper "The Village News" to the voters of Ukraine. Why? On the question of the representatives of the Village News: why don't you share the newspaper "The Village News"? The head of this state - owned enterprise stated: “If Januković’s criticism or the support of Yushchenk is not distributed, we are told that such newspapers will not be distributed. And now it's almost time, and the legal rights of readers of the Village News are being violated. In fact, several days ago, the newspaper "Silski Novosti" published an interview with his material according to the law and according to the submission of Viktor Yanukovic's headquarters. And all this material and this newspaper went to the voters. When the next material went out, they didn't want to distribute. This is another testimony to censorship in Ukraine, the use of administrative resources against opposition. It is remarkable that five court hearings were held today against the newspaper Rural News only during last week. The faction of socialists and the Center Group requires that the Attorney General intervene immediately, instruct the Henprosecutors to also review the situation, demand that the Minister of Transport of Cyprus be delivered immediately, and he decides on the release of the head of "The Crucifixion" who systematically cancels the signing of the newspaper "The Village News" and rips off the newspaper. We call on all citizens of Ukraine to make the right choice on November 21st and to support the opposition candidate Victor Yushchenk. As long as there's time, I'm handing it over to the Center Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u28	Yes, please, 45 seconds, Weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to report this from the Center Group. In the area of Volin, the number of people who were on the verge of taking a resilient certificate to vote for the only right candidate has increased. In connection with that, the headquarters of "Our Ukraine" accused the district administrations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Emergency Situations of being involved in such events yesterday. This night, the front door of the head of Volinsky District Headquarters, Victor Yushchenk, the national deputy, Vladimir Bondar, was set on fire. According to neighbors, this occurred about 23 hours in 30 minutes at night. There was no family member in the apartment, and the neighbors, when they heard the smell of smoke, extinguished the fire themselves before the fires arrived. Most likely, the door was filled with a burning liquid. The flames destroyed the entrance doors to the deputy’s apartment, damaged telephone lines, smoked access, and nearby apartments. We require the Office of the Prosecutor of the Volin Region to take all necessary measures immediately, as well as to put an end to the processes involved in the future falsification of the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u30	Yes. Well, we didn't make a deal, but please, Vasjunik of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the faction of "Our Ukraine" and BUT, thanking all those who supported the decision on the information of the CBC, put it up for consideration by the Supreme Council. Now, here's to the substance of the reference. The powerful climax in agony goes beyond all human values by resorting to unheard - of and extensive falsifications with powerful talents and terror against government officials, teachers, and doctors, while the Attorney General’s Office blindly overlooks these facts and does not reveal the case. So - called truth seekers and moralists even care about Victor Yushchenk’s health. You can't wait! To the conviction of every sane person, there is more reason to test the mental condition of the people of Ukraine than an agent who faints from the idea of an egg. The boundaries of cynicism and repression have long been overcome in the Prime Minister’s youth policy. We understand that this is the response of a humanist and a second child and young people to the position of young people, which was fixed on October 31st. As a result of the October 31st vote, 52 percent voted for Victor Yushchenka and 27 percent for Mr. Yanukovič after the forgeries. This youth policy is repeated every day. Here are just the last factors. Sumi, November 13th. On that day, the court held a court of law over young people. People were beaten with sticks, and tear gas was illegally used against them. During the past two days at Zakarpat in Svalava, several hundred armed criminals - I emphasize, I understand that they were Mr. Prime Minister's agitators - twice attacked students. They were brutally beaten, thrown out of the hotel, and the police remain silent, do nothing. The result is 30 beats. It's yours and morals, and that's your truth, Mr. Yanukovich. The fact of yesterday is the tip of the gang's cynicism. In Lugansk, students were detained by uncles in pursuits near the district U.S.A. only for handing flowers to law enforcement. That's why they're being incriminated. Think about it! - calls for a coup d'état, a constitutional collapse. And yesterday, a representative of this power, woman and mother, cynically calls these young fascists. So who are the fascists, your honor? What country wants to build a new government gang that operates in the 37th year, beats its children and grandchildren, gasses them, saves crime and disrespects the law, plants them for three flowers, like once her mentor, Stalin, for three rounds?Oh, my God! I'm turning to power. It is impossible to fight this, how impossible it is to fight against the future of our own people. The future will come soon and it will soon be without this mode. And to the end. Today, the new old authority reminds me of the medieval Inquisition that burned people at one time, believing that the earth was not spinning. But from constant repression, the earth continued to move. The changes in Ukraine will not stop, and they will come soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u32	Yes, Your Honor, the speeches are over. Konovaluk. Replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u33	I repeat, calm down! Take off the words of Konovaluk, please. Take it off, please. Turn off the microphone. Before you scream, hear what I say, and then scream. Okay? Once again, read article 3.8.2 on the 40th page of the Rules, where it is clearly and unequivocally stated: "The chairman may grant the national MP the right to a so-called replica only when he is mentioned as a national deputy, personally. [[I don't have the word "rape," but I'm saying what we're used to.]] The faction memory has no right to replicas." And so let's use it this way from now on. This is one moment. One second. The second moment, I remind you, is that lines are given once. Let’s say that Konovaluk mentioned Petrova. Peter mentioned Konovaluk, but Konovaluk can no longer have a replica. That's how we're going to be guided. Please, Konovaluk, and let's move on to the realization.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! All I did was read out a statement from 150 members of the people and our right -- we only demanded that all the true information about the so-called poisoning of Viktor Yushchenko be heard. We really saw the reaction and the true face of those people who call themselves “the power of the people”. It's not the power of the people. It is hatred, it is radicalism, a very small part of our beautiful Ukrainian people. I want to tell you, respectable Zinchenko MP, because you are the man who, with the megaphone in his hands here, carried out a barbaric revolution and failed Parliament's leadership, you served, you know who, you're the person who walked, and that's why, with regard to the blasphemy. I've been on this team since 1991, and I've been doing everything I can to make justice and order in this country. So one thing I want to tell you is that this whole story of insinuation has a point. And I'm filing my first civil suit on those charges and slanders you've made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! I just got here. Dear colleagues! I say again, I just said we're going to exchange lines once. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u36	I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich, you gave after the procedure, gave Konovaluku the word, I insist on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u37	Alexander Alexiyovich, I repeat, while I'm in session, I'm not you, you're going to be in session, you're going to be on speaker without permission. That's one thing. The other one. I'm asking this question about the decision of the session room, as it contradicts what I just said by the time. Who's to it? Once again, please, as decided by the session room, so will the chairman and the session hall. Who, in order to give the opportunity to respond to Konovaluk's message to the People's Deputy Zinchenko, please vote. [[12:00:48]] For-143 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine -81, Ukraine -1, Communist faction -1, SDPU -0, Labour Ukraine -0, National Agrarian Party -8, SPI -20, Block Timoshenko -15, Union -0, only Ukraine -0, Center -13, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs -1, Deminiciative - People's Government -0, Postfaction -3. Dear colleagues! Once again, there is no more concept of procedural decision. For a procedural decision, 150, 150 votes were recorded in our predeparture to the Ukrainian Duma. But in the Ukrainian House, the situation has been reversed, and now any decision, including a procedural decision, needs not 150 votes, but 226, except for a request for approval, a prior approval of a request to a deputy. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the decision of the Conciliation Council. At the request of two factions, as I have already said, although this has not been very clear, I repeat, 2 factions have declared a recess for that, or in connection with the events that we discussed here with you hasten to consider the issue that is scheduled for the 13th hour, is the information of the Central Electoral Commission. The question is, in the 13th, we're not going to make it to the Conciliation Council, and now the Head of the Supreme Council is in contact with the Central Electoral Commission, in order to carry out the task of the Conciliation Board, that decision has been taken. That we will now be following you on schedule as soon as a representative of the Central Electoral Commission appears, and we, on behalf of the Conciliation Board of the Head, are now bound to do so as soon as possible. We'll give you the opportunity to speak to the Central Electoral Commission. This is one and the other principled decision that took place at a meeting of the Conciliation Council. For that decision, I think you'll find it interesting to vote on the 7th factions. These are the representatives of our Ukraine, the Socialists, the People's Agrarian Party, the Communist Party, the People's Democratic Party, the Industrial Party, the Entrepreneurs and the Center Group. This sums up to over 226 votes. According to the regulations, we will and will offer the Supreme Council such a procedure. So, before and after the first round, we listened to the information of the Central Electoral Commission, asked questions, and ended this information. Now, according to the votes, I would like to stress once again that the 7 factions of the Central Electoral Commission's information will be as follows: 15 minutes we'll give to the Central Electoral Commission's representative for information, it's likely to be a substitute for the head, because the head is gone. Then 15 minutes, the CTC representative will answer our oral questions. And then we're going to take 30 minutes to speak to the factions and groups to discuss the information of the Central Electoral Commission. That's how we agreed to work in this mode right now. So, honourable colleagues, until a representative of the Central Electoral Commission comes along, let's get to, let's get to question 5514. There's a procedure. Please sign in for three minutes. Please, Bondarenko, follow him, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Alexander Zinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there is a long discussion in our room that uses the word "fascism," which uses the word "hate." And those words were not widely used a year ago. Today, in a large area of Ukraine, provocative cards, slogans that divide Ukraine into three parts, are distributed. Today, a faction led by the acting Prime Minister demonstrates that it is consistently, systematically and fairly in favour of the restoration of the Fascist symbolism in Ukraine. That's why I'd like to say that you have no moral right to address the words "moral," "justice." You have no moral right today to go up to the rostrum and say that you stand for the interests of the only national. The only people of Ukraine. You've taken a provocative position, and it's going to be canceled by 21 presidential elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Don't shout, reverend. Dear colleagues, I understand, but don't help the chairman. Because that's how you beat him with your screams. I'm starting to get nervous, and I don't know what you want. So please don't scream. I'll keep an eye on the monitor. If you don't distract me, I'll follow the Rules. Please, Korsakov. There's an oil man behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u42	Fiftieth constituency, Korsakov. Please pass the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u43	Please, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues. You know, we really understand the level of tension that today, believe me, is not being initiated by us in the country. We believe that the hatred that you sow in people's souls is the zombie that you have planted today for several years, all of this will come back to you. I'd just like to add to it, I haven't been able to make a last statement and say that what you said to me, that I was either conducting interrogations. Fortunately, there is a record of the commission of inquiry. Fortunately, there are audio carriers. And we met for seven minutes with Victor Andreevich Yushchenko at the hospital. And the entire dialogue was led by the People's Deputy Shevchuk. You knew that well. You did it consciously. That's how you do it all, like a fake that you've given millions of copies all over Ukraine, you've been driving around Ukrainian villages all night. After your defeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u45	Please. Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed. And please don't call the names of the missing national MPs, because they don't have the ability to answer the line. Please, Boris Illrich Oilynik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u46	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, don't forget to hand over Nikolainka for "The Village News." The D.A.'s office now. Please pass the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u47	Microphone, please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u48	Thank you, Boris Illich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, today a statement has been made by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine that the so-called popular candidate of President Yushchenko will carry out the founding positions of the Communists and Socialists programme. As for the so-called national candidate. I remembered the Eastern wisdom of how many times you don't say the word "halva" in your mouth, it won't be sweeter. So if even a million times they call it "national," it won't. And secondly, for us Yushchenko is a representative of one of the oligarchic clans that moved Ukraine for 14 years, and that's why it can't perform the Communist program. Moreover, I would like to stress separately that a person who calls even his supporters Ukraine a national-socialism species" cannot be called the Ukrainian President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u49	Yes, Your Honor, please drop your hands. Yes, dear fellows, I remind you once again: we are acting according to the Rules. That's one thing. The other one. I ask you to prepare, please prepare for Nicholas to present your statement to the Secretariat in order to form appropriate instructions for those appeals, such as the parliamentary questions he spoke of, as it were, at the address of the authorities he mentioned. I remind you once again, they'll only have the right to reply if they're called personal. No factions, no parties on the replica right. Nothing your turn was. Three minutes. Every minute of this. Dear colleagues, this is Schuffritch insisting that we should have a break in accordance with the 12-hour rule. So once again, we're going to clarify this question, as always democratically. Given the fact that you and I had a half-hour recess, I'm betting on a vote: who's to announce a 30-minute recess right now? I repeat, I repeat, Your Honor, listen carefully so as not to be blamed. You and I had a pre-planned break. We now have a break under the Rules. On the Conciliation Council, once again, on the Conciliation Board, we have an agreement with you now, without declaring a break, to work until the appearance of a representative of the Central Electoral Commission. That was the arrangement. But Shufrich is absolutely. But Shufrich has a perfectly legitimate regulatory right to insist on a break. That's why there's a contradiction. We and only you can correct the decision of the Conciliation Board. And so I'm betting on your consideration of who to announce a 30-minute recess right now, please be sure. [[12:12:28]] For-54 Yes, by factions, please, by factions. "Our Ukraine" - wants to work, "Ukraine" - 41, Communist faction - 0, Social Democrats who wanted breaks - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 7, SPI - 0, Timoshenko - 0, "Soyuz" - 2, "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 0, "NDP and PPU - 0, "Deminitiates" - 4, "Afterfaction - 0". But, dear colleagues, at the request of two factions -- the Social-Democratic Party and the regions of Ukraine -- they're asking to announce a recess, but I think Vladimir Mikhailovich will now inform you about the negotiations with the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the deputy head of the C.V.C.K. has come here to see us. We agreed on the Conciliation Council as soon as it appears, then we will consider the matter. But since there is insistence, let us now announce a break of 30 minutes before. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs. Then we should not have had a previous break. You understand, I'm breaking the Rules! It's being announced. Dear colleagues, there's a break. We have a break under the Rules, and so on. Now, let's get ready to look at the CLTC's readiness to hold the second round of elections. Break to 12:45 is announced. And then we're going to start looking at the question of elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats, especially those who have declared a recess, and you can see that they are still counseling. Apparently, they're still looking forward to it. Yeah, we'll keep going. Who? Nestor Ivanovich of the faction? Please give me three minutes with a message about the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! It's a strange situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u53	Excuse me, Nestor Ivanovich, please wait. Nestor Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, I would like to stress again. We must have been excited and not all heard. After we voted not to announce recesses, as in accordance with the Rules, and there was a decision by the Conciliation Council, two factions -- factions of the Social Democratic Party and the Regions of Ukraine -- filed an application for a 30-minute recess. [[united]] We announced this break for 30 minutes and, according to our traditions, after the break, they come out of information about why the factions took the break. So don't blame me, please. Please, three minutes Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u54	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have a strange situation in the work of our hall. less than two months ago, we unanimously voted in favour of a commission of inquiry to determine the circumstances of Victor Yushchenk’s illness. And we really took the responsibility of reporting to the people of Ukraine, I'm not talking about ourselves anymore, about what really happened, and we promised to do it before the election campaign was over. Today we have the conclusions of such important institutions as the Washington Institute of Poison, the Vienna Clinic, I am no longer talking about the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and other important institutions that have concluded their findings. Why is it that now those people that we have unanimously confirmed on the demand of the faction of "Our Ukraine" have no right to do their duty and to bring to us information that is very necessary and very important at this difficult time, because everyone has the right or the right to live, or is it the disease that we want Victor Andryovich to get out as soon as possible as possible as a human being and as our colleague to the national deputy of Ukraine? And I understand the hysterics, and I'm sorry he's not here, Renegade Zinchenko in connection with today's statement by Konovaluk. Because he put you in this situation when you and this committee, like this one without a pen, and it's hard to go, it's hard to carry and throw away because he scared us with biological weapons, God knows what else. And it was he who gave you the concept: Let us use this provocation to create an image. And it wasn't. And that's why you're going to realize that the situation is very difficult and very lush. But let's still look the truth in the eye. [[B in m in s a l in]] We today have the right to know the truth, just as we need to know the truth about morals and fascism, about which Saxony has just spoken, because Victor Yushchenko accused his fellow countrymen of calling them fascists. And by his judgment he was obliged from this rostrum to apologize to the people for the slander he had done. The truth must be one for all. Ukraine must be the only one and the same. And Ukrainian citizens need to know the truth about their li.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Lesju Stepanovich and his distinguished colleagues from "Our Ukraine," let's define ourselves. Are we going to consider the question or the pusher? So please explain the situation a little further from the rostrum. Zinchenko's last name was mentioned, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u56	The 23rd Shufrich National MP left the high-speed rally, drove down the street of the Forest of Ukraine, down the boulevard of the Forest of Ukraine, hitting a man, not stopping, but moving at such a speed that only a mass threat to other lives convinced him that it was necessary to stop Shufric on this car. They stopped him, after that, on all television channels, Schufrich reported that he had nothing to do with it more than an incident. The man was hospitalized, Shufrich was on TV. That's how all the processes in this country happen, there's the one who kills, there's the one who knocks people down, there's the one who gets on TV. Those who have suffered do not have access to any information sources. So Shufrich has no right today to talk about any sequential action, he doesn't have it, except that he wants to jump out of his pants on this stand and prove that he seems to have the truth in the last instance, you're a jumper, leave it in his city.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Nestor Ivanovich, I remind you that replicas can be exchanged once. You mentioned Zinchenko's last name. He mentioned your last name. Let's work, please. It doesn't matter, in the speech, you have. So, respectable colleagues, respected colleagues, respectable colleagues, be careful now that you hear interesting information. The point of this information is to, as I predicted, those who, in particular, were present at the Conciliation Council today. As the Head of the Supreme Council foretold, our conversations will end with things that will not end. First, you see, we've spent so much time with you to start listening to the report, as recorded in the session schedule at 1:00. But we're with you, unfortunately, we won't hear from him till 1:00. At the request of the two factions of "Trouble Ukraine" and "Soyuz," I announce a break of 30 minutes, until 1:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u58	The word Shufrich. The Hard Ukraine factions and the Union announced a break. The Soyuz Group gives its word to Shufric. Three minutes please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we certainly have witnessed the attitude of the national MPs toward each other’s unpleasant experiences today. I'm here to admit to all of you this unfortunate incident that I've never hidden, that I was involved with him, only in the form that was in the car that with my mirror hit one of our Ukraine's supporters, who was uncontrollable on the driving side of the rally under the CBC. I take responsibility for my driver. Although they all confirmed that he was not to blame for the fact that people were walking on the side of the road, on the fourth strip of the Forest of Ukraine. But I'm going to my colleagues from Our Ukraine: let's feel responsible for those people that we not only bring to the rally, but we have to give them the opportunity to leave the venues in peace and security. We should not only bring them but also make sure that they get home safely. And now I'm sorry that my friend is gone again, but I want to say something else, again, to the representatives of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! What could be your future in the pre-election race when your headquarters is headed by a man who in due course introduced the term "oursm," being one of our, unfortunately, fellow party members, a man who, when it came to raising questions about the resignation of Victor Yushchenk, zenicated and invited Leontiev, a journalist from Russia, who completed your leader's program. And now this man is leading your headquarters, and that's comforting. Dear colleagues, you know, knowing the fact that I agreed, despite not being driving, to go through a humiliating, humiliating procedure with my driver, so that I could be tested for alcohol, knowing that I never drink, I went through it. And that's common knowledge. I don't really drink alcohol. I'm through. I'd like to see which one of you would go for this, knowing you weren't driving? And as you might have said, something else, knowing that I had visited a patient who had unfortunately not been in the hospital because he had refused an outpatient treatment. But I want to say to this man in Russian, "Stupid," I can't call him otherwise. Sasha! Do not lead men into fornication! You're gonna have to answer not only to us, but to your colleagues on the block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, calm down! We've gathered today to listen to the information. Replica, one minute, please, Zinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u61	The Shufritch took responsibility for the driver. Thus, Shufrich was driving the car and driving the Shufrich car. I'll do it again. So it's him. Only the supporters of our Ukraine saved him, otherwise he'd have a very pale face. This is the first time. Secondly, Your Honor Nestor Ivanovich, you are well aware that your patron Medvedchuk secretly organized "Right Bridges" in 2001-2002, with Leontiev's involvement, this is your Medvedchuk who had experience communicating with this pseudojournalist. Now, when you have a word, you're going into a fall and you're not going to mention how it happened. So you're involved in a story you can't get out of. The term "fascism" is entered today by you, the term "fascism" today walks all over our Ukraine. That's why I want to answer all those who are applauding from Nestor Shufrich's "Regions of Ukraine": get your conscience and get some patience, 21 numbers of the last day of the regime, which motivates and endures such speeches, 22 numbers we will live in a country where there will be a court of responsibility, truth and honor. We will certainly prove that all the incidents that we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, calm down! Calm down, calm down, calm down. I am addressing representatives of the Democratic Initiatives and the One Ukraine: reshape the application as necessary, do not correct it, please. Please, with three minutes of motivation. Sign up. Yavorowski. Follow him, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u63	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, I'd very much like to answer the Shufric, but I'm handing over the word to Mikola Tomenko, my fellow thinker. Please, Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you now. I'm sorry, I don't hear from your screams that the national MPs want to come out of the microphones. I repeat: Don’t scream, don’t shout, don’t stop the meeting. To whom did you give the word? Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you and our citizens. You are now witnessing a situation where those factions of the former majority realize that, apart from forging elections, there is no mechanism for them to complete the presidential campaign. They raised the subject of health, image, and break so as not to listen to the issue of the Central Election Commission. We demand and ask that we stop the situation in Parliament when they want to cover the possibility of falsifying elections, listening to information from the Central Electoral Commission, asking questions from the CWC and not allowing possible falsification in elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u66	Coloniaris. Behind him, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to pass on the word of Shufrich. Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u68	Colonies, to whom have you given the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u70	Calm down! Turn off Schuffritch's microphone. I'll explain to the exhilarating boys. You ask why your faction manager raised his hand and asked for a reason. I've given you three minutes for motivation, and we'll finish this. Please, did the Colonia give it to whom? Shufrik. Behind him, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to the circumstances that have taken place today in connection with the number breaks and to the first person who has asked for a break. They were the representatives of our Ukraine. Therefore, it is not necessary to translate from a headache into a healthy one. You started these breakups, you caused us this splinter, and now you're falling into the same trap that you fell into yesterday during the debates that you lost with the crash. And I want to say about Alexander Zinchenko. All that he said is no longer worth my attention, but I'm sure it'll be worth the court's attention, where I invite him and where he'll answer with all the arguments and lead to his truth, which I'm sure he doesn't and can't have.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u72	Yes, please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u73	Fucking Communist faction. Please pass the word to Masenko Alexandro Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u74	Microphone Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u75	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! We'll get to know each other today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u76	You're just not talking in that microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u77	We're learning a lot of interesting things today, and here I really haven't seen the kind of interest that we're interested in today, we know both from one company and another about. One thing about each other. They tell what has been a mystery for several years. So on behalf of our faction, I suggest that we give them another five to ten minutes to talk about themselves more about what was not available to us and for the Ukrainian people, let them listen, and we will take it with interest. I'm making a motion to put it to a vote, we'll support it, and I think the whole room will support it. And for the radio audience, this is going to be a very interesting material.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! The conversation was concluded as we agreed on the Conciliation Council. This question is to be heard in the following format: 15 minutes of information by the deputy head of the CLTC, 15 minutes of answers to questions and 30 minutes of statements by factions and groups. Please, I give the floor to the deputy head of the Central Electoral Commission, Davidovitch Jaroslav Vasilovich. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I am convinced that I will not be mistaken if I say that today's election campaign by the President of Ukraine is, of course, particularly against the backdrop of all the electoral races that have taken place in the recent history of the Ukrainian state. And it was special in all its manifestations of the vast majority of its features, I have repeatedly stressed from this high rostrum to you, honourable parliamentarians. And you agreed with something, not with anything, and the electoral process went unrelentingly to its logical conclusion, the day of "X" on October 31st of 2004, which is now a story that needs to be drawn to conclusions and accepted honestly, standing face-to-face before the truth, no matter how bitter it may be. The will of fate is set out, as I have already pointed out, in fairly extreme conditions since the start of the electoral campaign, the Central Election Commission has faced a number of complex problems that can be considered to be a test of the commission's resilience and viability. Anyone familiar with the Presidential Elections Act could not ignore a whole range of stated principles and the absence of mechanisms for their implementation. The fullness of the law has created a number of problems for the Central Electoral Commission, which has to be resolved practically daily in the electoral process, but I am convinced that there will still be time to examine in detail the results of the electoral company and the electoral legislation and make appropriate changes and clarifications to it. Honourable National Deputies, on November 10th, in the exact terms laid down by law, the Central Election Commission determined the results of the October 31, 2004, elections and decided to re-elect for November 21, 2004. That is, all electoral procedures are strictly defined by the law for a period of only ten days. This is the time allocated to the Central Electoral Commission, the territorial and divisional commissions, to re-assembly voter lists, to produce all the electoral documentation and, if not the case, to ensure the production and delivery of election ballots to the district election boards. So since it is now up to the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups to hear information about the preparations for the re-election of the President of Ukraine, allow me to inform you, honourable Parliamentaries, what the Central Electoral Commission is currently working on today, on the seats to ensure the organization of the electoral process, strictly following the letter and the spirit of the law. The first thing that's done in the Commission is self-critically analyzed the work of the Commission, its secretariat, the Commission in places where organizational arrangements have been made to prepare elections in strict compliance with the requirements of the law. There have been some personnel changes in both the Commission’s secretariat and the territorial election commissions. By the way, in the last two weeks, 82 members of these committees have ceased their duties, and 9604 persons are now serving in the territorial election commissions. Only during the election campaign did 600 people, 216 of them on a personal application and 260 of them candidates for the post of President of Ukraine. Serious attention is also given to district election committees, which employ more than one million people. The Central Electoral Commission sees it as its task to preserve this capacity and to ensure their reliable work, both on the day of the re-voting and on the counting of votes, and what is important when transporting the protocols to the territorial electoral commissions. At the same time, we are concerned about the information that comes from individual territorial constituencies about the termination of the powers of members of these committees, which unfortunately does not always comply with the requirements of the law. To date, the issue of voter lists remains relevant. As a result, the largest proportion of recorded violations that took place on the day of the vote is related to misapplication, non-inclusion in the voters ’ lists, and inaccuracies in the lists. Today, the procedure for re-constituting voter lists and handing them over to the electoral boards is practically completed. The Central Electoral Commission has adopted appropriate explanations to simplify the process of correcting irregularities on the lists, allowing them to resolve the issues on their own day of voting to the heads, to the heads of the heads, to the secretaries of the district election committees. These issues were previously resolved by means of referral of complaints to local election committees or even to local courts, which on the day of the October 31st vote made more than 42,000 decisions. It should be noted that this active work to clarify the voter lists has led to an increase in the number of voters who now make up almost 37.4 million, i.e. almost equal to the number of data submitted to the Ukrainian State Committees in the formation of the territorial constituencies. On November 16, the total number of voters on the lists increased by 2.09 percent in Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of the law, the Central Electoral Commission ensures the production and timely transfer to the lower level committee of resilient certificates. They amount to one million, 496,000, or 4 percent of the total number of voters included in the lists. Resilient certificates are produced at the firm of the Ukrainian polygraph, which is where election ballots are made. By the way, they are made on the same paper as election ballots and with the same degree of protection and corresponding numbering. Because robust certificates of strict reporting by the territorial and district commissions are instructed about the order in which they are stored and issued in accordance with the requirements of the law. The Central Electoral Commission approved the proposal to review before the vote on 21 November to analyse the number of resilient certificates issued to voters by the electoral boards and how many of them will be repaid. In preparing for the re-voting process, the Central Electoral Commission examined the state of the area with transparent ballot boxes that were so difficult to produce. Today, virtually all polling stations are provided with the required number according to the law, and there is also a need for special seals. I will point out that the sealing of the ballot boxes by special seals was approved by the electorate and the members of the respective committees. Once again, they were convinced of the inability of unauthorized access to ballot boxes. And the numbering of seals, each of which is unique, excludes other manipulations and convincingly testifies to the efforts of the Central Electoral Commission, which is always consistent in its actions, to ensure fair elections. Ladies and gentlemen, on October 31st, the Central Electoral Commission ensured the production of 38 million 814 thousand 270 ballots. Of which 277,000 have been transferred to an organization for voting abroad. On November 17th, the number of ballot papers produced at the bank-monetary factory and the Ukrainian polygraph combine is 39 million 625 thousand 51 ballots. Or they went up by 2.09 percent. That's the same number as the number of voters. Since the process of producing them and passing them on to the territorial election commissions is limited to six days, the process is extremely stressful. And it consists of a literal time schedule for making them, transporting them, and handing them over to the appropriate commissions. By the way, all the members of the Central Electoral Commission who are already organizing this work in the vast majority of the areas of Ukraine are doing it. Despite extremely limited deadlines, the complex balloting procedure is linked to their numbering for each constituency of the commission will be provided with electoral ballots at the proper time. The production and transmission to the committees of other electoral documentation, such as the minutes of the district and territorial electoral committees on the results of the vote, has been practically completed. The number of copies sent to the panel will allow for the production of such number of originals and copies to be obtained by all members of the electoral process who have the statutory right to do so. Dear National Deputies! My information on how to prepare for the re-election would not be complete if I hadn't informed you of the state of information and analysis of the electoral process. As we know, on October 31st and November 1st, the information analysis system worked in a batch transmission system, i.e. it was stored on the servers of the Central Electoral Commission, it was updated every 20.25 minutes. On November 1, 97.76 percent of polling stations were published. For various reasons, which have been repeatedly commented on, the release of operational information has been suspended, and the system has been switched to the production of wet seal protocols that have begun to reach the commission. And as we know, on November 10th, the results of the vote were published. Of course, today we must admit that we had to try to get information more quickly than the district election boards and publish it. As far as I know from the experience of the commission in previous years, the information and analysis system did not work in President of Ukraine's 99th election, nor in the 2002 parliamentary election in direct "on-line" mode. Both batch mode was applied over a period of several tens of minutes. In fact, this architecture has created an information and analysis system called the Election of the President of Ukraine, which is used in the current elections. Yet today the work of the information-analyst system is being examined in detail, and it is being studied in the "on-line" mode and other approaches to this regime to ensure that the information is published in as tight a time as possible. After all, we do not have the right to another today. Dear National Deputies! The financial and material security of the electoral process remained far from simple, and the funds allocated to Ukraine's State budget of 391 million turned out to be too little. There are many reasons for this, and they all logically explain themselves. Voting 26 candidates, involving over 1 million people on boards, increasing the number of polling stations, sharp price hikes in the use of the media, both printed and electronic, and many other factors. Here is an example: the weighted average cost of one minute of air time on the UT-1 channel for the election campaign from 18 to 23 hours is 3969 dollars 34 dollars without tax on the added value, 35 times the previously calculated amount of the 2002 election experience, and the total cost of the use of the media exceeds the previously calculated amount of 34 million 627 thousand dollars. As fuel - oil prices rose, transportation costs increased by 4 million, 672 thousand dollars. For one reason or another, the cost of re-voting increased to 119 million dollars. And for yesterday's decision by the Supreme Council to provide funds that were missing from the commission, and not only from the commission, but also from the numerous armies of electoral organizers, you are deeply grateful. Since there were a lot of questions about why the funds were needed, I say, out of the 119 million allocated for the re-voting, 102 million 600 thousand are needed for the needs of the territorial and local electoral commissions, 86 million of them and 700,000 are for the salaries of the members of those committees, and the work of the panel members on the day of the vote and the sum-up will cost a budget of 32.2 million dollars. Today a number of other figures could also be described as convincing evidence that the election in our country is far from cheap satisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a brief information on the conduct of the most important electoral procedures carried out by the Central Election Commission, the lower-level commission in preparation for the re-voting on November 21st this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u80	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question. As long as you're writing down, I'm announcing that we're continuing this session until the end of this discussion. Please show me on the monitors. Fifteen minutes. Please, Tomenko. He's behind him, Fishbuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u81	Please. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u82	Microphone, please, Catherinechuca. You must not be in your place, Mikola Dmitrovitch. Where's your card, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u83	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, I have three questions for you. The first question is this. You know, on the count of the results of the first round, the Central Election Commission, on its initiative, addressed the question of the 100th district -- and overturned the results of the 100th district vote. Thus, there are no more than 134 thousand votes for Victor Yushchenk. Please tell me now that the Supreme Court of Ukraine has overturned this decision and has committed its decisions to the Central Electoral Commission to reflect this in the new decision of the Central Electoral Commission on the first round of voting. Don't you think that's what the Central Election Commission does?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, sit in your seats. The microphone was on. Please answer. Excuse me, please. I'll add a minute to that time. Once again, I call Boris Bespalogo's attention: please don't insult the leader, he's governed by the Rules. That's the first one. The other one. It's not my fault that Nicholas Catherinechuck wasn't sitting in his seat. His microphone was on, the clock was ticking. I can't run to your microphones for you! Please answer, Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u85	Dear Mikolo Dmitrovic, indeed, after the election in the constituency number 100 of the city of Kirovograd, the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to proceed to the Central Electoral Commission will be considered by the Central Electoral Commission and decided accordingly, as decided by the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u86	I can't see the fish. Please, Eshchenka. He's behind him, Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u87	Fucking Communist faction. Please pass the word to Rodion Mikhail Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u88	Please, Rodion's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u89	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please tell me the answer to that question. One of the candidates, and specifically Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko, on television, stated that there was a transit server in his view, which was used to manipulate election results. That's the question. If there is such a server, whether it's legal or illegal. If it is illegal, in what way will it be tried in a court of law? If this claim is not correct, how does the Central Electoral Commission react?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u90	Thank you. The Central Election Commission in its own time made a decision to create a single information and analysis system called the Elections, where additional servers were excluded, and there is a clearly defined electronic system that provides for the structure, and a system that is clearly in line with the requirements of this particular decision. As far as the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine is concerned. Well, I can't comment on it today, because it doesn't normally meet the requirements of our Central Electoral Commission's decision on the system and the system worked in the technical transmission mode. And finally, the system exists today and from it, as it were to be said, by filling the information of the organization itself, technical experts can come to know and draw their conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u91	Please, Shufrich, follow him, Plutinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u92	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich! We have all witnessed, unfortunately, a very difficult issue that can't help but be touched by you and our voters, namely, by making lists of voters. That from about one count to 5 percent of our citizens, our citizens with you, Jaroslav Vasilovich, the compatriots have not been given the opportunity to exercise their constitutional right to vote. Please tell me, what steps are being taken in this regard? What can we expect in the second round? Will we, in this case the Central Election Commission, correct this error? And tell me, please, what will be the reaction to the cases where it was proved that people were abroad and their voices were counted as those who took part in the vote? And your attitude toward the failed Law on the Registration of Natural Persons. Would he have helped in these matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u93	Dear Nestor Ivanovich! First of all, I'm going to say that, really, the problem of making voter lists was worrying and disturbing the Central Election Commission. I have repeatedly raised this question from this rostrum. However, I'll say that, I've called the figure, the number of voters on the day of the vote with the pre-composed lists has increased by 2.9 percent. So some refinement of the lists has been made and is now being carried out. In my speech or information, I have already stressed that the simplified procedure for processing those lists and introducing clarifications to them, where it is allowed to be carried out by the electoral boards on their own without recourse to a court or territorial commission. That's two. And the third. Which, in fact, the register of natural persons is essential in the state, but this is the perspective, I think, already in 2006. Today, this week, which remains, it is necessary to work in this regime to clarify the lists that are, and to do the utmost, to verify them, to clarify them and to allow those voters to vote, which they certainly have the legitimate right to vote on the day of the re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u94	Please, Plutinski, I can't see. Baby, it's Billorus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u95	Please pass on the word Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u96	Niklaenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u97	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, please tell me, you are an experienced man and I have known you for more than a year now, against the background of all the events that are taking place in Ukraine, when you can throw away a few million powerful talent for a successful candidate, when you can get a list of sympathetics, such as socialists, or other positional forces off the lists. When, for example, students today have to approach sums and show against whom they put the plush otherwise they won't count or they'll rot. When, for example, money is being spent, I ask a simple question to a respected person: Is there any point in holding elections? What is the point of this if we know in advance that all of this is falsified and profaned? Why are we sanctifying this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u98	Dear Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, I also deeply respect and respect you as a national deputy, as a wonderful person, but I, as an official official, am a civil servant in the right today, from this rostrum to answer those questions that have a well-founded basis, i.e. to answer the question of where specific clear information is, and in general, yours, I think, really, the question, it is so politicized and it can be long, discussed, exchanged information, but it is not the substance of the commission and of today's duties that I perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u99	Please, Billorus, after him, Kirilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u100	If that's the case, I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy, Peter, the "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u101	Please, it's Peter Olinick's microphone. Talk to your microphone, find your microphone. Please turn on the microphone. Place the card right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u102	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich. Yushchenka faction, Oilynik, Sokal 125 constituency. You're talking about evidence you don't know. And now there's evidence. In the Lviv region, the tax administration, the police, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Defence, the District State Administration are forcing government officials to take firm gifts and turn in. Today there are more than a hundred statements by officers of honour, the police, the tax administration, other structures. Twelve trustees from Jashchenka have asked you a question. Are you going to turn him over to the D.A.? Because the D.A.'s not responding, and that's a criminal offense. Even in convicted and mentally ill people, they are denied the right to vote, and Ukrainian officers are denied the right to vote. This is in all areas of Western Ukraine. And that's what the Yanukovich team does.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u103	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say that the Central Electoral Commission is working specifically to consider appeals, statements, complaints that have come before the commission. As far as I know, there was no such statement on the Central Electoral Commission. If it does, believe that the Central Election Commission will consider it, make the appropriate decisions, and take the steps of those determined by law. Because it's really a nuisance if it's done in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u104	Please, Kirill. Behind him, Bartocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u105	Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich. First of all, I want to remind my colleagues that power has nothing to do with the Elections Act to make lists. And the problem with the fact that many voters were not included in the lists is the problem of our committees, which have still not been able to work. Secondly, I would like to thank you personally, Jaroslav Vasilovich, and your colleagues, that under this fierce pressure that is being exerted in the election of the CLTC, under the performances that have taken place under your walls and in the very centre of the CLTC, you have been able to preserve your mind and tolerance and have remained over this struggle of two powerful groups that are putting their candidates to the presidents. I believe that your work will be a model for many other committees in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u106	Thank you, Reverend Victor Dmitrovich. In fact, the authorities were involved in the compilation of voter lists. And today, when we examine the law, let us be honest with ourselves. The completed lists on July 1st and July 1st until October 1st, before those lists, unfortunately no one was looking or clarifying them. And only on October 1st, when those lists were handed over, composed of July 1st, to the district election boards, did they all get caught. Would it not be better if the authorities handed over those lists on October 1st, they would be more accurate. Sadly, though, that was the way the law was passed, and we carried it out. And today this bitter pill and we're swallowing it with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u107	I can't see the Barts. Please, Shevchuk, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I have one question. It is understandable how intense the political situation and the struggle for the electorate are now. Yet, there are certain contingents that are effective, but they have certain health or age defects. I mean the brutal, unethical use of the unhealthy condition of patients in hospitals, as well as those in homes with disabilities and the elderly. And it's not their agitation, it's literally their violence to vote what the hospital manager wants, or whatever he doesn't want, but he's being coerced. Please tell me, can you give a moral evaluation of such actions when patients are ill? Sadly, this is perhaps the only example in Europe in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u109	Regrettably, the law today clearly defines the right of efficiency and considers that citizens who have the right to do so are ineffective. All other citizens are entitled, or recognized in a different order, to be effective and should be included in the voter lists. It's immoral or immoral, I don't have to judge it today, but unfortunately, it's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u110	Please, Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, the first question. I just got a call from Kharkiv. Although you said in your report that the Central Electoral Commission had been able to decide on its own behalf to the heads or substitutes of the district committees those errors in the electoral lists, the massive errors that had been made, now in Kharkiv, unknown instructions signed by the district commissions, which indicated that they were all nonsense, had been released on all the approaches. And accordingly, these issues have to be resolved by terrarians or courts. I ask you to take this as an official request, check with the Central Electoral Commission the authenticity of this information, and it is necessary to give those millions of our voters the opportunity to vote. And the second. You know, the soul hurts. People don't just call from Western Ukraine, not just from Lviv, from my constituency, from all over Ukraine, people cry in tax, in other state structures -- they force the brothers to hold their cards up and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u112	I'm going to say that the soul doesn't only hurt you, and it hurts me, too. And in Kharkiv, really, today, our member of the Central Electoral Commission of Danielewski, if you call it more specific, because there are so many territorial election committees in Kharkiv, we will check this information, he will still have the opportunity to hold such an instructional meeting with the leaders of the territorial election committees and to prove to all the committees that explain the Territorial Election Commission, the Central Electoral Commission. The Central Election Commission is not a higher law in the state today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u113	Jaroslav Vasilovich, don't answer the question without the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u114	It counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I promised to add one minute. Please, Tuck. None. Then Hara, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u116	I ask you to give the floor to Vasily Ivanovich Nadragha.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u117	Please, dearie's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u118	Dear rapporteur, do you not think that we have invented any new cases when we begin to request a report from the CIA before the elections take place? So we'll get to the point where we've failed to do anything, we'll already need a report, we'll have an evaluation, we'll get to the rostrum, and we'll even try to evaluate the activities of those bodies that we've created by voting on the numbers. But I'd like to ask you one more question. As the confidant of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, I attended the elections in the Ternopolsk region, and I know that some 300 statements and complaints from the responsible individuals of Yanuković were handed over on the ground, including to the local authorities, which very well describe how they were being oppressed by Kiev, and in fact they were engaged in undisclosed agitation even on election day. So here's the question: what's done in the Ternopol region through the CIA.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u119	Dear Vasil Ivanovich! No, I don't think it's too obvious that I'm here today in the rostrum when the election results have not yet been established. I'm ready every day and everywhere, and my colleagues are willing to speak, analyze, inform the public as much as possible about the results of the October 31st vote, about the preparations for the re-voting process, because information -- not vices, information takes away the tension, population information -- it's an extremely important matter. With regard to the Ternopil region, appeals written by trusted persons or other subjects of the electoral process who had the right to do so were certainly discussed in the territorial election committees on the electoral day of the vote. You have the possibility that those who wrote those complaints have the opportunity to get to know the outcome of their consideration in these respective territorial election committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u120	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich, sit down, please. We've run out of time, we've even moved on. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the report, the more accurate information and the answers to the questions, were given, after 15 minutes, just as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, more precisely decided by the majority of the representatives of the Conciliation Council. We have 30 minutes to discuss this. The factions will be representing. Please have the word Turkinov, Block Timoshenko. Prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The first tour of the presidential campaign indicated that there had never been such massive, insolent forgeries in Ukraine, and that the authorities had never used their administrative and forceful potential in such a way. But the second round can cover a lot of counterfeiting issues, in the case of "breedless," in the case of crimes, the first round to the level. Today, we can say that without time without authority, the authorities no longer conceal the process of total forging elections. They do it in a demonstration, they do it insolently, they're not afraid of the crimes they commit every day. Today -- firstly, all the power structures, all the tax structures, all the customs structures, local administration officials, especially in Western Ukraine, especially in the regions where Victor Andryovitch Yushchenko won, force their subordinates to take up the card, which has been repeatedly mentioned here from this rostrum, the resilient coupons that do not allow their subjects to vote as they see fit. Next. In the eastern regions of Ukraine, they are already collecting signatures under clean protocols, and members of business commissions are forcing them to commit crimes, as well as those who give their reassurances, to commit a crime for which they are under 12 years of imprisonment. They are forced to sign the clean protocols that will include the numbers that the Cabinet of Ministers and the headquarters of candidate Janukovic is working on today. This is a horrendous crime, fellow believers, and it is the Supreme Council that must stop this crime. As the only legitimate democratic body that still exists in Ukraine. Next. There is a demonstration of the persecution of independent media. Today, representatives and the Socialist faction have already made a statement that only because the Rural News published an interview with Victor Yushchenk, an arrest report by the Force News. And that's what's happening in the regions. Yes, today in the Donetsk region there was a closed television channel called the East only because it was broadcasting 5 channels for two days. Today they've been deprived of their license without any explanation. So, dear colleagues, our faction could give us many other examples of banditry that is being planned today. But you and I have to put a dot here today. We call for mistrust on the part of most members of the CLTC who are unable to organize the electoral process. We demand the resignation of strong structures, leaders of power structures such as the Bilocon, etc. We demand that local administrations be removed from criminal activities. We must stop the abuse of power. We must give our citizens the opportunity to freely elect a people's president.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u122	He's the "Centre" group. He's got the people's deputy Gabrieluk. Get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow MPs! Dear Presidium! Dear Sergey Vasilevich! At first sight, I'm sorry. The principled position of the Centre group before the second round, that CBC, nose blood, must do everything to make the second round better than the first. The entire chain of action, all the electoral commissions from the site to the CLTC, should be re-examined in a step-by-step manner at each stage and clearly monitored. Stage one. It's a commission. Everyone knows that opposition representatives in many commissions are trying to remove any way they can. There is no trust to such duly purified commissions. These are sources of possible falsification. We demand the restoration of illegally replaced Commission members throughout the country. Stage two. Uplifting coupons. We call for an end to the endless use of the same voucher, and to that end, to announce the number of ballots issued throughout the country and the number of votes cast on those ballots. This is possible the night after the vote. Stage three. Voting at home and in institutions trapped. The presence of representatives of both candidates in this type of vote must be ensured, as it is a source of abuse. Stage four. Voting at sites and work of observers. The higher the level of public control in voting, the greater the confidence of society. Stage five. Calculation of votes or use of unliquidated ballots. Full transparency and clarity must be added at this stage. The issue of unused ballots must be covered. Stage six. Formulation of protocols, immediate transfer of data to the centre and delivery of protocols to the CWC. This process must be carried out under unscrupulous public control because at this stage most of the counterfeiting takes place. Stage seven. Continued announcement of the current results of CERs without minor unexplained breaks and delays. The public media must be sure that the final result is in their eyes from the current and continuously advertised intermediate data. Only then can the credibility of the CLTC be restored. And most of all. Only when society sees CEVC fighting as a lion, for the legitimacy, transparency and integrity of the electoral process, not for any favourite and politician, and for voters and international observers, and the world recognize the elections of the President of Ukraine held throughout the canons of democracy. I now wish to address Sergei Vasilevich Kiwalov personally. Sergey Vasilevich, you are a serious and at the same time not an old statesman, you have years and years of great politics ahead of you, and it is up to you whether you can set up a second round of CLTC and stop all channels of possible falsification of elections that depend on your political reputation. You have the opportunity to enter the history of Ukrainian democracy as a person who has strengthened one of the fundamental foundations, i.e. the electoral process. And there's a danger, the probability of getting into history, yes, that you won't wash away. Nothing in the world: no money, no career, no material property is worth the name of an honest man.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u124	The word from the faction "Our Ukraine" has the national deputy Zvaric. He will be followed by Kirichenko, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u125	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I think that a lot of Ukrainians, when they heard the words of the acting Prime Minister that he wasn't going to give power before the final vote, were hearing his head and trying to understand what the Prime Minister was talking about. Today I have in my hands an evidence base that can clearly prove that indeed the Prime Minister could say such things, because if this scheme is involved in these documents, there is really no need to hold an election. I'm going to speak with the original, these are statements from militias, taxpayers, district and district government officials. For example, officials of the Mikolai District Tax Inspectorate write the following: Major Janishin of the Tax Police was consulted with employees on the second round of elections. At this meeting, there was a clear indication: every employee should bring and give to the responsible person, under any circumstances, up to the day of the election, five strong certificates, warning that failure to do the task could have negative consequences not only for us but also for our families. I have at least a few hundred statements in my hands. So what we're talking about, let's talk and call things, now, finally, by our names. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, officials of our state, issue criminal orders to their subjects, not only issuing such orders, but also clearly requiring them to be executed and warned that if they do not comply with this criminal order, they will be punished. How does the Prosecutor’s Office react? I urge the Attorney General to name at least one case, the discovery of a criminal case against officials or officials of our state, on these allegations. There is no statement or criminal case opened by the Attorney General’s Office. It's about preparing a large-scale election counterfeiting program and, in fact, the Prime Minister doesn't need an election then, he can appoint himself President of Ukraine if this scheme is activated. We can't keep quiet. There is a draft decree on your hands where we offer very specific measures to prevent such a crime. We still demand that this decree be put to the vote and that the Supreme Council fulfill its duty and ensure that Ukrainian citizens have the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u126	From the faction of the "Region of Ukraine" the word has the national deputy of Ukraine Kirichenko, to prepare for Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. We have heard the Central Electoral Commission's report again today and we understand the problems that have arisen during the first vote. These issues relate to all of them and to the compilation of lists and compliance with the electoral law. That's what a lot and a lot of people say today is about voting for themselves, not coming with five and ten passports, that's all. This, of course, is to ensure that the polling stations are properly formed. And I would like to draw attention to the work of our official observers, because the work of the official observers is to observe, not interfere, with the work of the commissions. I ask you not to make a fuss on the electoral commissions today. For all of us, all of us, on the one hand and on the other hand, we need the elections to go right, honestly and transparently, as we want them to, not to say. There is therefore evidence today that entire landings are being prepared for the electoral commissions. I would like all members of the electoral commissions to understand their place, understand their role and understand that they are responsible for the electoral campaign. And no one has the right to interfere with their electoral campaign. This will make it clear and organized to work for members of the electoral commission and to transmit information in a timely manner. I would like to say very carefully that the CIA should make every effort to process data quickly, to make the elections fair and transparent. Any delay in the election results is caused by a lack of confidence in the electorate, causing politicians to blame each other, leading to social tensions in society. We hope that the CLTC, with the help of us people's deputies, will do its utmost to ensure that the elections take place. I want to talk to all the voters. Please don't be afraid if you're being intimidated. Today, in Vinnitsky district, I was approached by fellow workers in rural enterprises. They say that, Ludmila Fedorovna, the representatives of Our Ukraine come to us and intimidate us and say that if you don't vote for Our Ukraine for Yushchenko, there will be a revolution. They're gonna blow up our houses, they're gonna kill us, they're gonna tear us apart. Please don't be afraid. Come to the polls.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u128	The word from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine comes from Nikolayenko. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u129	Dear colleagues. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine authorized me to speak. The only thing I want to say to you is, Dear People Fedorovna, that the revolution is no longer scary in our village, because there is nothing left to thunder. Everything's been blown up there for a long time. We have to rebuild everything now. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine today is concerned that political life in Ukraine has turned into so - called curvy mirrors. Everything that happens in the country has such a unique feature. When it is broadcast on the mainstream media, it has a completely reverse side. We cannot understand today why the law is being completely violated, why human dignity is being violated throughout Ukraine. Those who violate the laws and the Constitution demand that the opposition stand firm today to carry out all the commands of power. Any legitimate protest on the part of the opposition is now declared fascism, banditry, and so forth. By television, the perpetrators are always innocent, and thieves become righteous. Socialists see this as a conscious idea of political puppeteers, who are not on the screen today, behind the screen today, behind the frame, and this is Kuchma and his company. Today, they want to bow down their foreheads, cancel elections, and preserve the current rule of the oligarchs. The situation with the separate coupons, with the resilient coupons they've been talking about, and that's millions of powerful coupons, that's 10 percent of what they fake, the authorities, the abuse of teachers, students, civil servants, the falsification of consciousness, the squeezing of facts, the billions of money spent on electorate bribes on the part of the authorities is talking about the absurdity of an election. Why make fun of people in general? I propose, on behalf of the faction immediately today, perhaps tomorrow morning, the Security and Defence Council to convene, the conciliatory council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to invite the President, the Prosecutor, the Central Election Commission, the presidential candidates and to tell each other the truth and finally to stop this absurdity that we see, not to embarrass Ukraine, the state and ourselves! I propose to support the proposal of colleagues and to adopt a decision recommending the Central Election Commission from the statistician to become a real Central Election Commission. Not to pretend that everything is okay, because idleness is also a crime. I suggest that if this is not the case, there will be great trouble in the state, and I don't want it, and the socialists don't want any bloodshed. We're for peaceful elections!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u130	It's Vassil Nadrag's word for "Soyuz" from the MP. He'll be followed by Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u131	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk Region, Alliance of Deputies. Dear colleagues, I would like to address everyone in this room without exception. Deeply convinced that life will be after 21 November. And it will be 21 December, and 1 July, and this year, and 10 and 15 and 20 years later. But I believe that our measure of responsibility with you is to make it positive every day, not what we are doing here today. We are with you, unfortunately, distinguished colleagues today, setting an example for the whole country and the entire international community, to which we so love to refer, that, within our own interests, we are prepared to go to everything that we want, even before we choose the word from each other, not to give him the opportunity to say it, constantly interrupt, and everything else, with all the claims when we say that we are Democrats with you and we are trying to be Europeans. I would also like to return to what I have already said here: my dears, on the first tour I attended in the Ternopolis region, had the opportunity to visit and see. And when today our opponents are so pleased to tell us how bad and bad they are in Eastern Ukraine, I would like to say a little differently: my dears, the numbers are stubborn, the Ternopol region has turned up 92 per cent on the basis of the vote of the first round, it's against the backdrop of your constant statements that half of Galicina is working abroad, that there are dead and missing people on the list. So tell me, please, if it isn't the local self-government that took the picture of your TV leader saying that we're going with one flank and one sherengue, or your local self-government made those lists. Why do you keep filing claims only to others? Next time, you keep quiet about it, I understand why. Because it's perfectly natural: the situation as it has been in Ternopol and the neighbouring areas is very good for you, and you keep talking about the bad Donetsk region, about the terrible Lugansk region, and something else, forgetting that you, my dear ones, have done what we are sometimes called the East, a long and long time to learn to ensure such an appearance in the first round. I suspect you're going to have 100 percent of the show, you're going to get everyone you can, and you're going to win, because you're Democrats, and everyone else is the heirs of totalitarianism. My dears, let's say one thing that life will continue. You scream and interrupt me. I understand. It's not good to hear when you're squirming at yours. Be courageous, be dignified, and do not push us to where we will then go for a long time, both as a country, and as a staff. Good luck to all of us, because the country will live, no matter how wise its policies, you won't lie to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u132	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Sufric has a word from the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. He'll be followed by Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u133	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, of course, can be treated differently with regard to the conclusions and organization of the electoral process during the first round of voting, which took place on October 31, 2004. But today we also have a lot of questions to ask the distinguished Central Electoral Commission: both on the basis of the results of the vote, and on the organization of the elections, including in Western Ukraine, where we have examples where 40 of the population voted in favour of a certain candidate for presidents. Not even the democracy of Soviet times allowed it. But we've taken this as data, as confirmed by the official protocols, as what will or will not be accused, but as an act that is stipulated by the Elections Act, which, by the way, you've initiated. And today you're making claims to central executives, to the President of Ukraine, to ministries and other departments! Dear colleagues, you yourself have removed from the electoral process the electoral process itself, including the local administrations, and handed these rights over to the local authorities that were elected in Western Ukraine during the 2002 elections for the sympathy of our Ukrainians. Today, it is your representatives in the areas where you today ask to release the heads of district administrations and failed to handle the electoral process that have actually violated the law, and what responsibility should they bear. And here we agree with you. But once again, this has a responsibility, not to the local authorities, but to the local authorities, which unfortunately are your sympathizers. Influence them into organizing the process. And today, we must not overlook the requirement to find the Central Election Commission unsatisfactory. Dear colleagues, if we recognize today the work of a respected independent body, which, by the way, is a "holy cow" all over the world, intact to both the executive and the legislative branches of power, and you're actually blackmailing it today, how can it have a second tour, when we now find her work unsatisfactory. Then let's stop working today on your offer of CTC and then we'll decide something else. But not the second round. I don't think we have the right to make that decision and question the work of such an important body. And don't forget, Ukraine has to stay whole, the only one after November 21st, and that's why we're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, the Communist faction has been given the floor by the national deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u135	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The people of Ukraine are well aware that two exactly the same oligarchic clans are fighting for the highest public office today. The manipulation of voter positions has moved to the final stage. At the first stage, we watched a propaganda noise. There's now intimidation, a hard force against the electorate, preparation for falsification on both sides. Recently, the media among the political forces, as well as in society as a whole, have been discussing the position of the Communist Party of Ukraine in supporting Ukraine's presidential candidates in the re-voting process. Some view it as indeterminate. Others blame the support of a candidate. Others demand that the candidate be supported by a valid authority. Some political forces deal with this issue in their own way, with a view to getting the benefit of it and putting our party in the dirt one more time. They're mass-produced forgeries with sort of an evaluation by the leadership of the CPI, the activities of one of the candidates, spreading all sorts of false rumors. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine emphasizes that the position of the Company of Ukraine on the subject is clear, balanced and well-founded. The CDC of Ukraine, which took place on 4 November this year, noted that supporting the re-election of the President of Ukraine by any of the candidates for the current anti-national regime's policies is unacceptable. We Communists are confident that the victory of any oligarch candidate in this year's election will not lead to a political change in Ukraine. As before, all spheres of social life will continue to be capitalized, exploitation and looting of workers, and diversity in foreign policy for the benefit of the West. A Communist party can't support that. The Communist faction in Parliament, regardless of the outcome of the re-election of the President of Ukraine, will continue to make every effort to protect the interests of the working people. We will continue to fight for the establishment of workers in Ukraine, for the transition of our Ukraine to a socialist path, for the deepening of all friendships with our brotherly independent Slovenian states: Belarus and the Russian Federation. Victory will still be ahead for the working people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Representatives of all factions who wanted to participate in the discussion of the report took advantage of that right more precisely. So all of us who wanted to, once again, spoke to the representatives of the eight factions and the MPs. We need to go through another procedure here. At the Conciliation Council, we talked about this as a draft decision, but this draft ruling didn't look at the appropriate profiling committee. At the same time, in the course of the Conciliation Council meeting, some people, I think, have made a very reasonable observation that we did the same yesterday and today we have the opportunity to do the same. I would like to remind you that yesterday, when you and I discussed the changes to the 2004 State Budget, when it came to funding the Central Electoral Commission, we agreed with you not to disrupt this process, to go into violation of certain norms of Parliament and without consideration on the Committee on Budget Affairs to make such a decision. And to make such a decision not only in the first reading but also in general to accept it as a law. And so most members of the Conciliation Council today have also concluded that since we are listening to the question, well, which is directly related to the fact that if we do not take these decisions and respond to them, we will not be able to do so, for the elections, as they say, are no longer coming forward, on November 21. And that is why I would like, Your Honor, to have you and I deviate from the rules and today vote on the draft decree number 6543, the authors of the bills, if I make a little mistake, correct "Our Ukraine" seems to be Pinzenik, - Turkinov, S.O.P. is hard, Lucenko? Lucenko and from the Centre of Slabenko and also Zvaric, there is a cook. You must have this project on your hands, the draft decision. One of the authors of the draft decision, Slabenko wants out of the procedure. Please, Slatenko's microphone. And the Welder's minute. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like only to say procedurally that in the second paragraph of the draft decree, there has been a mistake not yet included information about the Volin area, i.e. the text would have to write, ask questions about the responsibilities and officials of the Volin region.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u138	Yes. Dear colleagues, I remind you that in a voice we will not yet be able to add and remove the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u139	Your Honor, Adam Ivanovich, you're right to say that you can't do that in a voice of course, but, I think, with the consent of the subject of the legislative initiative, there are no obstacles to the vote, but there are no principles, no substantive changes to the draft decision itself. So I do propose that we follow the following procedure. To vote in favour of the draft decrees on the basis of the proposal, to listen to the proposals of the national deputies, and if the legislators agree with the proposal, then to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u140	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. You were half right in the first part, and not entirely in the second part, because the draft decree depends, not on the subject matter of the legislative initiative, but on the will of the session room. And that's how we're going to do it. That's it. Please, Shufrich a minute and Richter's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u141	Adam Ivanovich, well, different things have happened in this room and beyond. But notice now the fraction of the agrarians. There's everyone there and they're willing to vote, except for the agrarians themselves. Look, it's where the best forces of the socialist party, the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Our Ukraine, are now concentrated, but there are no members of the agrarian party. Adam Ivanovich, we must be principled to the end. If there are no deputies, we cannot vote for them. As for the members of the Social Democratic faction, they don't vote for this absurdity, and therefore they're not available for everyone to know. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'll give you the word of Richter, and please note, we have 1446 monitors. At 3 p.m., you and I have to hold parliamentary hearings. So please, if we want to make a decision, let's save time. Richter, one minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, indeed, we have discussed the matter today and can be put to the vote today. But I'm supporting my colleague, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, and I'm addressing the head of the Regulatory Committee, a matter of principle. And when I go to my colleagues, I'm not going to call them names, they start making this brutal swearing right now. Nevertheless, to vote only with my cards, I address the representatives of our Ukraine. And don't break the Rules. Let's be true.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we agreed to vote. Dear colleagues, let's vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to abide by all the rules of the Constitution and vote in person. I am voting on the basis of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare for the second round of the election of the President of Ukraine and on urgent measures to ensure the legality of the electoral process. Registration number of draft regulation 6543. I'd like to make a statement. Sorry, 6343. [[14:48:15]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I'll read the pro. “Our Ukraine” - 94, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 18, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 12, “NDP” and “PPU” - 0, “Deminitiatives” and “The People’s Government” - 0, “O” - 7. Please, Simonenko, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u145	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable colleagues, respected radio audiences. The Communist faction did not vote in favour of the draft, although it was of the view that a decision should be taken as a result of the discussion of the matter. Why didn't we vote? First, the first paragraph would naturally have to be defined precisely with an evaluation, because the evaluation contained in the draft stipulated that no one should conduct a second round of voting. And the Central Electoral Commission has no moral right to hold elections. In the second paragraph, we must eventually act as we and the Rules should. It is certain that the information and reports of specific officials should be heard in order to further include them specifically in this paragraph. We can record when law enforcement agencies intervene in the electoral system today, record what information the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney-General has to hear on this issue. And third. I think appendix "A" is actually an intervention in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u146	Yes, dear fellows, don't raise your hands. Carmazine and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u147	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! We supported these proposals by the Communists. I think the whole nation appreciated the Central Electoral Commission's work, so that we can form our position, and I ask you to switch the microphone to the member of our faction of Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u148	Please, the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u149	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished Peter Mikolaiovich, respected colleagues! I am authorized by the faction and by the entities of the four factions that made this draft decree to state that we fully agree with Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka’s proposals. And that's exactly how we view Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka's speech as a formal proposal, and we endorse it, and we believe that we can make it, and we urge Adam Ivanovich to put to the vote with the changes that have been formulated by the leader of the Communist faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, this is all determined by the Hall, not the Chief. Please, Nikolainka, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u151	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Today, we cannot help but get out of this room without having to accept any document without supporting this decision. I agree that it needs to be polished, made some changes and can be accepted by the proposals made by Simonenko, the head of the Communist Party of Ukraine -- and voted for it. And when we vote on the basis, my proposal can also be included that the Council of National Security and Defence, as well as the Presidium, the Conciliation Council, the Central Election Commission, two candidates meet immediately and discuss this challenging situation. If we don't take this decision, then the responsibility for all the events that will take place after the 21st will lie with those who voted against it today. Yes, who is voting against this decree. We need to vote in favour of everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-17-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, it's over. We're done. Dear colleagues, I repeat: we have a parliamentary hearing at 3 p.m. So I'm voting on the proposal: who's in charge of voting on the draft ruling? I'd like to make a statement. [[14:53:05]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 99, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 30, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 18, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 11, NDP and PPU - 2, “Deminiciatives” - 0, “O” - 8. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings.
