ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:35]] Registered -439 There were 439 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine of Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich and Sitnik Kostin Merkuryovich. Let us greet them, wish them health and fruitful success in the work. Dear colleagues, you have an agenda for today’s meeting. Two factions -- BUT and "Our Ukraine" -- require a 30-minute break. I suggest you make a statement to the faction leaders on which you take a break and let's work. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. When the budget was adopted last year, the faction "Our Ukraine" claimed budget understatement. And yesterday you were able to see it on the actual numbers of the report that the faction gave you, where the extra money went. Social payments in the government remained the last place. The budget situation this year is repeating itself. Only with new government appetites. According to our estimates, the government has hidden at least 10 billion dollars and at least 5 billion dollars of the Pension Fund. These costs are enough to increase the wages of doctors, teachers, cultural workers, military personnel by 25-30 percent, to raise the prestige of qualified work in the budget area, to introduce article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, to acknowledge the debt owed to the students for this article and to start paying it. Increase the average pension by 30 percent and eliminate discrimination in pension legislation in relation to military, women, citizens who retired in the 1990s. Four months ago, the faction filed a corresponding bill, in February of this year. Another project was launched in March of this year. We sent a letter to every deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine asking to consider our draft laws. For the fourth month, we and Ukrainian citizens are fed with promises to consider the bill. The first half of the financial year ends, and soon the parliamentary holiday ends. Once again, like last year, they want to put us in front of the fact that we have a hidden budget. The same is true of the privatisation of the Clovistal plant, which is worth about 30 billion dollars. In addition to 750 million dollars, it is estimated that there is a significant increase in the number of people living in the country. That's what we're talking about. The situation that has arisen, the faction "Our Ukraine", the BUT faction requires immediate consideration of Bill 5234 and the draft decree on the privatisation of "Criminals". We can't be peaceful witnesses of 15 billion people being taken away from citizens. the amount of the budget and about 30 billion. The amount of money from the privatisation of the Creebrisstals, which would also be due in the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u3	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Tolstouchov People's Deputies Act is under review. The floor is chaired by the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At the committee meeting yesterday, a statement was made by the national deputy of the Ukraine, Tolstouchov Anatolia Volodymyrovich, concerning his responsibilities as minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Therefore, in accordance with the requirements of part one of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" the Supreme Council is subject to a draft decree on the termination of the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy, Tolstouchov, elected in a multi-mandatory public constituency, the electoral bloc of the political parties "For the One Ukraine" in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5589 on the suspension of the powers of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Tolstouchov. [[10:07:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! You can understand the situation of the person who is in line to enter the session room. Well, I'd better put it to the vote again so it doesn't. We're going to have a discussion. I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the early termination of the terms of office of the national MP Tolstouchov, registration number 5589. [[10:08:28]] For 224 The factions, please. Dear colleagues, well, sooner or later this is going to happen, it's a constitutional norm. Let's finally be honest with ourselves. “Our Ukraine” - 99, “Regions of Ukraine” - 4, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, “Deminitiates” - 0, “Deminiciates” and “The People’s Government” - 0, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, “Centre” - 17, “Soyuz” - 0, NDP and PPU - 0, Agrarian Party - 0, Postfraction - 7. I'm going to vote again. I understand, dear fellows, I call! What can I do?Oh, my God! I'm once again putting to the vote the bill of early termination of the terms of office of the national MP, Tolstouchov, registration number 5589. Please vote. [[10:09:35]] For 211 The decision is not taken. So let's just say that in an hour, I'm going to ask this question again. Mobilize, hold consultations -- and I'm going to put it to a vote. Sooner or later, we're going to have to deal with this. Three minutes, please sign in. Please explain the name of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to vote now, focus -- and disenfranchise those deputies who have no right, and urge that the Chief of the Supreme Council to monitor the submission of applications to the court, as he promised it a month ago. Besides, I would like to make it clear that if we're going to ask a question right now, we need to ask questions about the President's veto over the Chrystals, because that's where the President's personal interests are seen. That's the first one. And second of all. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we address you as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation in the oil markets. You know, the trip is totally about all of Ukraine. We need to listen to the Prime Minister. Don't tell the story, but he's reporting on how he lived his life as prices rose overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u7	Please, Peter Simonenko. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u8	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I turn to all of you, because we have to act on the basis of the law and the Constitution after all. If Tolstoyov holds a position in the Cabinet of Ministers, he has no right under the Constitution to be a national deputy. And what is being blocked by the majority today is a testimony to the entire community of Ukraine that the Supreme Council is not going to live by the laws that it adopts for the people of Ukraine. That's the first one. It's different. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a faction of communists, strongly insists that we vote and consider the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the day's privatisation problem "Crioristal," and the faction of Communists understands that today's fuel prices have gone up, and that is because all oil refineries have been privatized, they are not property of the people of Ukraine, they are property of foreign capital. And today the people of Ukraine are suffering. That's why we insist that the problem of the Chrystals be urgently considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u9	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u10	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u11	Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u12	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine last week held its exit meeting at the Civoristal factory. We've been studying the privatisation situation of this plant. An enterprise that has 45 percent of its profitability, which employs 55,000 people, where the social sphere is preserved, an enterprise that has no analogues in the world today according to its technology and so forth. And this factory -- the pearl of Ukrainian metallurgy -- today they want to privatize. The question is, What are the motives for those who want to privatize? Just make a living, clean up the business in your pocket. Adam Ivanovich blocked the issue without allowing it to be included in the message of the day. There is already a decision by the privatisation commission and a decision by the budgetary committee to include. And please include this issue today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'd like to inform you about a court case involving members of the People's Deputies, which combines the MP's mandate with work in executive structures of power. Andre Petrovich was the cuddler. June 8th. Slatta. 9th and Tolstoy's on June 10th. So if we can't decide in the session room, the appeal court will decide. The point is that there was no committee decision on this issue, and I didn't say it was in line with the application to the Kyiv City Court of Appeal. It will be, I'll pass. Dear colleagues! We have two draft decrees here, which are of a common nature, this is a draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in June 2004. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. We'll work it out on the Creatures. I'm asking for your attention. One minute, listen. Let's not interrupt the work of the Supreme Council. Let's take a break and hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council so that we can find a common agreed outcome, and then I'll put it to a vote. We're in the process of dealing with the issue. Now, let's finish our consideration of the question, the announcement break. I don't throw away, I put aside, I remember everything. Dear colleagues! Please, let's not block the work of the Supreme Council. Let's hold some meetings. I'm in favour of everything for the people. It calls for two factions -- a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and a faction of Communists -- to break for 30 minutes. To the heads of the MPs and factions, please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u14	Please invite the National Deputies to the meeting room, the Secretariat. Honorary colleagues, at the request of two factions: the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the factions of Communists, a break of 30 minutes was announced. During the break, a meeting of the Conciliation Board was also held. I first ask Alexander Baranowski to provide information on the motivations of the factions for the break and then to inform the Conciliation Council. Please, Alexander Baranowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Two factions: the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the faction of Communists took a break to make the following statement. We are all witnessing what is happening in society as a result of the rapid, unrestrained rise in energy prices. Foods are also being used, transportation costs are rising, housing prices are inevitably rising, and utilities are increasing. New shock therapy for working families, especially pensioners, the poor. How can we survive, refuse to feed, and clothe our children? And the reason is that four of the six oil companies in Ukraine have changed owners. To them the problems of our citizens, give them as a fifth wheel to the wagon. The main thing is to get their profits. They're threatened by the Prime Minister, by the antimonopoly committee, like parks dead. They are the owners of strategically important objects, and they will always dictate the will of the people. It is our destiny to be hostages and speculative demands of new masters. But this is just the beginning. In these days, a determined attempt is made to put the entire agricultural complex in the same difficult situation that is now under way, the entire Ukrainian industry, whose bread is metal. It's about trying to get President Kuchma into the hands of his son-in-law, Victor Pinchuk and his partner, Renata Ahemtova, the most perfect, the highest-income enterprise, the combination of Crimsonstal. There is no equal in all of Europe to this production. It works in a closed cycle. It's a mining company, it's a powerful domain furnace, it's finally the product of the highest class that has stable demand at the world level. This level of liquidity doesn't have any of our businesses. For Ukraine, it is a chicken that carries golden eggs. Let's note that last year, the Creebrisstal combined, through taxes, filled a government fine of 1 billion 300 million dollars. And above all, the nation’s leadership decides to donate this company to Pincuk and Ahmet, so that it does not work for the entire Ukrainian people, but only for a family that seems to be now in retirement. Kuchma and his team use direct deception. They claim that the privatisation of the Chrysalis is the way to complete the budget and they estimate the main acquisition of Ukraine in just three billion dollars. And in return for this misery, we're forever losing annual revenue from the Creatures to the budget. We need to finally place a cross on the Ukrainian machinework. This is a forged grave to the national construction industry in Ukraine. Finally, the Civoristal is 55,000 jobs, well-developed infrastructure. Therefore, a group of members of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Communists, the faction of "Our Ukraine" today announced this, and we demand that we take the appropriate decision to suspend the privatisation of the "Criminals". We demand that we now ask the issue of overcoming the President's veto, which he has imposed on the law that has restricted the privatization of the Crusades and put this issue before the Supreme Council so that we can discuss and adopt appropriate decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute, calm down. Allow me to inform you of the decision of the Conciliation Board. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Mr. Vladimir Semenovich, please take your seats, as it is a matter of whether the Supreme Council will continue to work or whether the session will be closed in the future. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we discussed the matter this way. Whether it be the Supreme Council or not, the Supreme Council will continue its work or stop its work before the presidential election. Otherwise, some national MPs claimed that it should work in a non-standard environment, i.e. in a situation of permanent blocking the work of the Supreme Council and in a constant demonstration of the zero results of the work of the Supreme Council. We agreed in such a way that all the questions that arise and they do not find the support of the Conciliation Council, that is, they arise for the first time, will be put to the vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Those issues that have already been discussed and found no support, for further their fate, these issues, we will be determined by consultation, by holding meetings of the conciliatory board, with the invitation of other interested parties. Other possibilities, another way to provide productive work for the Supreme Council, we simply don't exist. It's about the question of "Criminal." You know, the honourable colleagues that we passed the appropriate law. The president of Ukraine made this commitment. Today, in the section "The President's Review of Laws," we're going to lay down this law and look at it, and let the Supreme Council determine how to overcome the veto. A question was raised today regarding our ineffectual vote on the disenfranchisement of the Ukrainian national deputy Anatolia Tolstouchov. We came up with this decision: to have the regulatory committee hold a meeting today, and at 16 o'clock, a draft decree will be put in place to de-authorize the people's deputies who are in agreement with the MP's mandate. Names include Tolstoy, Slauta, Satsuk, Kluev, Onopenko, and Moses. And we're going to vote with you, and we're all going to be in equal conditions. [[Applause]] Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that, given the tense schedule of meetings, we will work with you today to complete the consideration of all the issues covered by this schedule. We have to make up for what we've got. Dear colleagues, as we continue to block the Supreme Council's rostrum, I will put to the vote the question: who is in charge of continuing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? If there's support, we'll continue it, if there's no support, I'll announce the closing of this session in a timely fashion. Do we have a deal? All of it. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Calm down, everyone. Enough of the procedure. Enough of the procedure. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Should we vote or should we not work today to consider all issues of the schedule of meetings? I'm not imposing, I'm imposing will. I'll let you know, don't yell, please. Don't scream, please don't show your activity. Dear colleagues! Calmly, calmly, dear colleagues, I always listen to you, now listen to the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now exchange the procedure for five minutes, and then I shall put to the vote the continuation of this session until the discussion is concluded according to the schedule of meetings for this plenary day. Out of procedure, please log in, five minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u17	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! I understand everything, the desire of some forces to stop the Parliamentary session. I am sure that we will consider all the questions, but we need to start with those that may not be followed by Ukraine. Today, gas has been added, and the same will be true of metal when it is taken 10 times or 15 times cheaper. So the question of Chrysalis is to be asked right now and immediately and to be considered. The President's veto must be overcome as soon as possible. Similarly, it is urgent to ask that the 15 billion that have not now been invested in the budget be returned to the budget, the offer made by Yushchenka is for this reason. It is also urgent to ask the questions of others who have spoken today. But when they talk about liberation at the same time, I want to tell you that Moses does not occupy any.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u18	Paul Sulkovski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The position of individual national deputies was misunderstood. That's one thing. And on the other hand, I don't understand your position: why do you still want to vote further on whether we should continue our work? Today’s meeting schedule is given to us. And that's why I'm making a proposal: no vote is necessary, no consensus, I don't think other national MPs are needed either -- we're just going on schedule for today's session of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u20	Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u21	Surrender the word of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u22	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u23	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'm surprised by the statements you're allowing yourself to make here at the Supreme Council Hall. In fact, you're threatening a coup d'état, a political coup d'état in the walls of the Supreme Council. You take over those powers you don't have. I would like to remind you that you were elected here by a majority that did not exist de jure, and that there is no de facto today. And I think the members of the Supreme Council will have to respond to this behavior of yours. And now, basically, the situation. The Communist faction has insisted and insists on the inclusion of our troops from Iraq in the agenda. You are in no way preventing this issue from being considered. And it is surprising your position on the establishment of the Tolstoy. You voted against it by violating the norm and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u24	Yes, please, Shepetin, the faction of SDPU. Yes, Alexander the Road. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, our faction, we have advised, we support your initiatives, but we would still like these draft regulations or to assign them to you. commission the processing and submission, and make sure that such serious matters are not voted on. That's the only one. But in general, we support and are ready to work for this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u26	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u27	I ask that you pass the word to Valentina Petrovni Seminyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u28	Valentina Seminouk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u29	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the faction of the Socialist Party is asking you to consider a draft law of the President's veto on inclusion in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization, if we fail to overcome it, we have another bill that is supported by the Special Monitoring Commission and the Committee on Economic Policy, and the Committee on Budgets on inclusion in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization, but can be corporateized. And this is a compromise option that can relieve the tension in the sessional Hall of the "Criminal" with the co-adoption of the Supreme Council's decision to suspend privatization in order to correct the errors that the Supreme Council is obliged to consider, because, according to the law and the Constitution of Ukraine, changing the form of ownership in enterprises, this is exclusive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u30	I see. Thank you. Oleg Belarus, please. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u31	We also advocate that the question of privatizing the Creature Metalworks combine be included in the agenda and considered today and in the first place, as a matter of urgency. This is the prerogative of the Supreme Council and the exercise of the superior supervisory function of the Supreme Council, the monitoring function of the executive branch. We have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u32	Time's up. Dear colleagues! And we agreed with you that we're going to look at the President's veto today, and there's all the others that are going to be related documents, let's look at them, but to do that, we have to provide productive work. I'd just like to answer to Ally Alexandrowski. I'd like some respectable colleagues. So you don't blame me for sticking to the Rules. That's the first one. The other one. As far as I'm concerned, I'm blocking the question of Iraq. I haven't been in the session room all week, and I've been giving you the opportunity not to block it, obviously, and you've been looking at it. What a result, you can understand that very well. So you need to be objective, at least you have always been objective. I'm sure she'll be with you this time. As for Tolstouchov, my distinguished colleagues, I cannot at the same time bounce away from the national MPs and vote at the same time. If I were against that question, if I were to make a positive decision, I wouldn't put it to a vote three times, but I wouldn't vote once. Let's be mutually objective. Dear colleagues! I am voting on a proposal that was agreed upon by the Conciliation Council, and we need to make such a decision. Who is it that we continue to meet today to consider all the issues that are scheduled for Thursday? Please vote. [[11:16:31]] For 208 The decision is not supported. A draft Ukrainian Government Day Decision was announced in June 2004 on the approach of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to the implementation of constitutional powers in the field of defence and measures to strengthen leadership in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence based on the principles of professionalism, as well as a draft decision on hearing information from the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the constitutional powers of the Ministry of Defence in the area of defence and measures to strengthen leadership in the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence based on the principles of professionalism. [[We have two documents to consider.]] These two questions, the honourable colleagues, are united, so they must be considered together. They obviously need to be considered together. So I invite the author of two projects, Bogdan Hubsky, please report. We've agreed on "Criminal," that we'll approach this issue, your honors. Dear colleagues, since there is no need to report, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, do you have any comments on these orders? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee supports discussions at the Supreme Council on the state of affairs in the Armed Forces and in the field of defence in general. It supports, in principle, a project by the people’s deputies: Hubski, Demjochinim, and others, with such warnings. First, to simplify the formula of the question by saying: to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the fulfilment of the constitutional powers it has exercised in the field of defence, to lower the other. Because under the Constitution, the human resources issues in the defence system are decided by the President. And the second. Not June 8th to listen to the information, but to transfer it in a week and make the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u34	Next plenary week, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u35	One at a time. One at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u36	Okay, okay. Please turn on the Hub microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, let me tell you, there is such an offer. The first order under number 5501 is to be withdrawn from consideration. And vote in favour of Decree 5501-1. Because we know there's a huge number of problems in the country's Armed Forces, there's a huge amount of sadness to mention Brovary, a skunk tragedy over the Black Sea of airplanes and the latest explosions under Artemos. People died in these events and there are problems. All of these events confirm that the modern - day Ukrainian army is in critical condition, since not only can it perform the functions of protecting the state but it is actually dangerous for its own people. As a result, in the absence of time, I regret not being able to formulate all the serious issues that are in the Armed Forces, resulting from this we have proposed to conduct a government day in June with an appropriate theme. But unfortunately, the government's June Day is already planned, so please support 5501-1, June 8th, and listen to relevant information from the Cabinet, the government. From a date point of view, if there is another date, we can also support it, but it is definitely necessary to do so in June.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, here is the agreed position that we should consider this issue in June, in addition to the Conciliation Council, to set a date. And then let's support the proposal made by Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov to take a draft decision to listen to information from the Ukrainian Minister's Office on the implementation of the constitutional powers he had in the field of defence, to put a dot. And we're going to decide what recommendations we're going to make. Is there no objection? And the suggestion is to specify an extra date when we're going to consider this issue next, let's say, plenary week. Is there no objection? I put to the vote with such clarifications the draft decree - registration number - 5501-1 on hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the constitutional powers it has exercised in the field of defence. Please vote. [[11:21:32]] For 355 Decision taken. As for the draft decree number 5501, the committee and the project authors propose to withdraw it, so there is no need to vote. Take it off. A draft decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the pressure on the Ukrainian national deputies by the state authorities is under consideration. Gabrieluk Basil, please, microphone. Calm down, dear fellows, calm down. I see no reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the pressure on the people's deputies of Ukraine by the executive branch is a well-known phenomenon. Davy all the time. Strangling strangers, pressured their own, probably making them even more afraid. Since the MP's failure to support constitutional reform, there has been pressure, unprotected threats. When we set up the Centre of Deputies, let me put it straight, it's even increased a few times. Although the Centre is not currently opposed to the opposition to power, we have tried and chosen a central position for ourselves. As a result, we have decided not to support anyone's team, from somewhere or from outside Parliament, but rather to take a stand for the benefit of our country. Of course, not everyone likes it. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, there is unprecedented pressure on the Ukrainian people's deputies today. And by rephrasing Lenin, I'd like to say, every Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I think the problem is clear. The committee considered and supported this issue. Valentin Grigorovitch, what is the position of the committee? Please. We're looking at issues, dear colleagues. Let's wrap it up, it'll be motivated. Just sit down, please. Please, Dear, microphone, please. Dear colleagues, after considering the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u41	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, that's what we don't normally have, we have a lot of wonders. But this question was not included in the agenda. Everyone understands that it takes 226 votes to put it into the agenda. It takes 150 votes to create a commission. Therefore, a request to the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we should put the inclusion in the agenda and then the vote. Please. We did not vote to include this committee in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I ask you to understand that the pressure on national MPs can only be exerted by voters, citizens of Ukraine! All other pressures should not be pressured. In this regard, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the investigation of pressure on the national deputies of Ukraine by the state authorities. Please vote. [[11:25:06]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, of course. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Regions of Ukraine" - 8, Communist factions - 59, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, Dem. Initiatives. The People's Government" - 0, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Center - 18, Union - 0, NDP, industrials, entrepreneurs - 8, Agrarian - 16, non-fraction - 12. I am voting on the whole draft decision to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the pressure on the national deputies of Ukraine by the state authorities. Please vote. [[11:26:04]] For 259. Decision taken. One minute. Sit down, I'll give you my word. Sit down, please. Sit down. I'll give it to Well, don't yell. Please, just sit down. I'll give you my word. Thank you. With the motives of Peter Simonenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I think that the current vote of everyone who supports the proposal of the communists to consider the metal combination Krivoroztal raises questions of privatization, because in this case you immediately, Vladimir Mihajlovich, put to the vote, included in the agenda. We have been fighting for a week to give the right to vote on the agenda and to consider the issue of “Criminalists”. You understand that very well, but I have the impression that you're blocking this question on purpose. I therefore insist once again on the faction of Communists and ask everyone to support, to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Krivorozstal plant, privatization. It is unclear to whom that combination is privatized in preparation for the presidential election campaign. Thousands of people there today, in the Horn of Curve, are outraged that the Supreme Council cannot consider this responsible issue. I propose to support this opinion of the Communist faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to ask you to step away from the prosecution's tone of voice. Calm down, please. Since you have the impression that I blocked it, my deputy blocked it. I am. I want you to be guided, not impressed, but guided by reality and the Rules. Please. And you don't have to blame me for what you don't have. I ask you again, let's be mutually tolerant. Dear colleagues, with a motive, please, Assadchev. We agreed that we would consider the veto of the President and all the related draft regulations that exist. What else do you need? Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am very clear on the basis of the vote. I want to remind you again, and perhaps the President's representative in the Supreme Council: the creation of an inquiry committee is 150 votes, and this is a direct constitutional rule, and it can't be broken by some rule of law that needs to be included in the agenda. It's voting right now, 150 votes, and the commission of inquiry is being set up. This is an element of the defense of opposition in Parliament. And I would ask you, in the next few days, when such committees are formed, not to ask questions about including them in the agenda. The Constitution doesn't provide for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, we were about to consider three draft laws concerning the Ministry of Defence. But since the Minister of Defense is currently meeting with President Aliyev, they asked to postpone consideration of these draft laws to 12 o'clock. If you have no objection, let's postpone. At 12 o'clock, we'll be back to that question. The draft Law on Compulsory Insurance for Civil and Legal Responsibility of Ground Transport Owners is announced for consideration. We agreed to make a decision. Let's get to the point, let's work it out. We made a deal!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u47	Why include, when we have agreed on what it is, it is a question. I would like to say again: Your Honor, we have agreed that we will proceed with the consideration of the laws that the President is committed to, and we will consider overcoming the President's veto or in a new editorial on the prohibition of the privatisation of the Crimsons. [[Don't scream! I can't call everybody out.]] If there's any other suggestions, we'll put them in the agenda and look at them. We made a deal! You don't have to. We agreed, we agreed to consider it. Well, don't yell, dear fellows. Don't yell. Please. Don't scream! Don't push! The big difference is that there is a Rules and there is order. The pressure won't do anything - I told you again. You don't have to. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Compulsory Insurance has been announced for consideration. We're going to consider this, we're going to get to it -- just give it a chance to work. Today, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u48	Today. I said that on the Conciliation Council, we agreed: the President's remarks on the privatisation of the Chrysobristals, which we will consider. There's a chapter, we'll look at it today. And all the other sidekicks. And the decree will be included in the agenda. Others will be considered. Let's do it, let's do it, let's do it. I want to say again, don't push, it won't happen! Either we look at it in order, or we don't consider anything. Today we will consider! Vote for us to consider. You didn't want to! Don't scream! The draft Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Responsibility of Ground Transport Owners is announced for consideration. Ice cream, please. Turn on the microphone. Report. One more time, the other less. Don't scare me! Calm down! Calm down! We'll vote in good time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u49	Today. Let's work actively. Let's take a look at lunch. You're going to block-- let's not look at it. Microphone, please, Morozov. We're leaving in a day's time. I'm on my way. I'm on my way. Dear colleagues, you don't have to!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u50	The bill presented to you applies a comprehensive approach to all aspects of the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u51	We're under the law. The President's veto should not be included in the agenda. You don't have to include him. He's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u52	During the years of independence in Ukraine, more than half a million of our citizens were killed and about 100,000 were killed. One of the most important issues in this law is insurance tariffs. We already have a negative experience of Russia in this area, so everything was done to avoid Russian mistakes. I want to say, for example, for the left factions that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u53	I said I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u54	against this law that we have the opportunity to sell insurance policies for 15 days for 5 dollars 40 cents. And participants in hostilities and disabilities are generally exempt from the obligation to purchase insurance policies. The "Our Ukraine" faction has decided to uphold this law. Thank you. The committee is calling for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, what are the comments? Who insists on their amendments to this law? Please, Akopian microphone. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, first of all, I want to say that I have put in the registration sector a draft decree on the non-admissibility of this law as one which contradicts the three articles of the Constitution 6 and 85 and 116, and also contravenes the law on the status of the national MP, the law on the fight against corruption and. The Committee of the Supreme Council. I don't know why my ruling wasn't handed out, but I'm in. I'm in. Among other things, I have quite a number of amendments that have been rejected by the committee. So I would like to look at the individual amendments that are also considered by the committee and those that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u57	Amendment number six of the Akopian People's Deputies. Please state that it is not included. Akopian, you argue with your amendment. Turn on the microphone, please. The Secretariat, please see if there is a draft decision to reject this law. I don't have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u58	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to know if there will be a draft decision that I have prepared, so I wanted to report on this bill and only after we have come up with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u59	The Secretariat, please look for a ruling when it has been made. Akopian, please state your arguments about the inadmissibility of this law, please. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u60	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Why did I file a motion for an inadmissibility order? First. Because the law does not match the name of the type of insurance, as set out in the Insurance Law. The law provides for the involvement of the public authorities in the work of the self-regulation organization, the Motor Transport Bureau, in which it is proposed to create a coordination board that can replace the functions of the general assembly of the Motor Transport Bureau. Four deputies from the Supreme Council and three representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers are delegated to the Coordinating Board. This is contrary to the articles of the Constitution that I have already mentioned. In addition, the bill does not have an economic justification for the size of the tariffs and the size of the insurance. There are no pay-out limits at all. Insurance companies will essentially become companies that will do ritual services, medical services, and so forth. In addition, the law has a clear lobbyity and is aimed at monopolizing the insurance market for this type of insurance. For that reason, there is a guarantee fund that can at first be viewed as some sort of guarantee of activity, the responsibility of insurance companies. Indeed not. Because at this size of the guarantee fund, by the way, which is not available in other laws of other states, the market is shrinking sharply, the number of insurance companies that can work in this market. From 330 companies in the market will actually work 20-30 companies. Moreover, some of these companies are not actually engaged in real insurance, but in very different matters. You can say a lot of negative things about this bill, but unfortunately, there's not enough time, so I decided not to accept this bill. And I'd like to put a draft ruling on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules, the National MP may at any time make an offer of non-admissibility of the law and we must consider it first. So in order to further determine the fate of this bill, I am voting on the proposal of the People's Deputy Akopian on the inadmissibility of the draft law on compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. You know the registration number. Registration number of Law 2054 on Inadmissibility. [[11:38:47]] For-43 Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. Dear colleagues, we didn't make the decision to be unacceptable, we voted on draft regulation 2054/p2, which was passed by the Akopian People's Deputy. Now let's do the repairs. Don't do that, I'll tell you again, I'll close the session in general. Don't do it, we've made a deal. Take your seats, I'll tell you what's up. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the national deputies of Ukraine. Are we going to continue the work of the Supreme Council or not?Oh, my God! I've made a decision to your acquaintance by the Conciliation Council. This decision was that today we would consider the law with the President's comments on the Crusades. In the process of addressing this issue, if you don't make a decision the way you want, I'm going to put to the vote the inclusion of the regulations you're proposing. We'll look into it. In order to address this issue, I have proposed that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue until we have exhausted the schedule of meetings. And that was the decision of the Conciliation Council. What else do you want?Oh, my God! Do you want to achieve some of your narrow-party goals?Oh, my God! It won't happen! You don't have to, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There is no reason to give a word. Please, as amended. I'm telling you again, you want to -- let's see, you don't want to -- we're not going to look. I'm talking to the people's deputies: why are you sitting here, not allowing me to work for the Supreme Council?Oh, my God! I'm telling you again, there's no reason. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Dear colleagues, you must choose your words. You are a man of honor. Yeah, I'll close the session. The master of the Supreme Council. You're not the Lords of the Supreme Council, I'm the Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u62	I'm telling you again. I'm not privatizing it as opposed to you. And don't make me talk. I'll do it again. I didn't take it, I postponed it because there's no report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u63	Your question cannot be included, the following questions are coming up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u64	I'm not blackmailing you. You're kidding me. Calm down. Yes, dear colleagues, as amended. This is an offer I'm making to the Conciliation Council. If the Supreme Council doesn't work. That's right, I'll put it to a vote. It's not the norm to block the work of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Teryohin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm talking to the chairman. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Impossible. Mr. Litwin! Please listen to the law. We have already discussed this law as amended by all. He was accepted in a second reading. So far, the only committee that has ever been approved has been the committee that has been counted. So we've already gone through all the revisions in this room. Therefore, the law must be put in place in general. Because there was only one readout for the second reading, which was fully taken into account by the Committee on Finance. We passed that law. Therefore, ask for it on behalf of the committee as a whole, and let us vote positively.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I am voting on the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Responsibility of Owners of Foreign Means of Transport. Registration number 2054. Please vote. [[11:43:57]] For 270. Decision taken. The law is passed. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, the law is passed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention so that there will be no charges later? Please calm down, everyone! Well, please, have a seat, Your Honor. With a view to normalizing the work of the Supreme Council and ensuring the normal work of the Supreme Council, I shall now put to the vote in such a sequence, please listen carefully: the first vote will be -- who will be in favour of returning to the question of "Criminals"? And after that, if you come back, we'll put it in the agenda. I'm asking the question, who is in favour of going back to the question of "Criminal," and asking the national MPs to be determined by voting. [[11:45:17]] For 218. The factions. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, of course. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 100, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communist factions - 58, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, Dem. initiatives. The people's government is 0, the SPI is 20, the Block of Timoshenko is 19, the Center is 14, the Union is 0, the NDP, the industrialists and entrepreneurs are 0, the Agrarian Party is 0, the non-fractional party is 4. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment is being announced for consideration. Please, Vernigora. Leonid Vernigore, please. Well, I put my fellow officers to the vote. What else do you want? Please, there will be motives, we will be faced with the motivations for voting this law, I will give with motive. Please calm down. One minute, calm down. Please, Leonid Vernigore. I'll put it to the vote again, if that's what you're interested in. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u67	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! Read carefully the bill with which I went to the rostrum and how it relates to the question of "Crowrystall." If we now consider this issue, seven million unemployed will be added to so many more unemployed that we will still not be able to decide with you at all what social benefits and what to do with them. One-and-a-half billion-dollar business. I'm actually surprised how we were looking at the Budget Resolution yesterday, not to mention that the only enterprise that fills the budget today could end up in someone else's hands? That's why we're not talking about the President's veto, and we need to get back to the issue of inclusion and the consideration of this issue in the session room. I think this is very closely related to the unemployment I went to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u68	Now, if you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u69	So wait, I suggest you don't consider this issue until we consider the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There is a committee proposal to adopt this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u71	There's no offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u72	about adopting this law, draft law as a whole as a law. The legal system is unwarranted. That's why I'm voting for adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment. Please vote. Let him make suggestions. He's not dealing with any other kind of question. It's different. That's what you're saying! [[11:48:58]] For 224 The law is rejected. With three minutes of motivation. Please sign in. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens is being announced. Out of procedure, please. From the motives of Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u73	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not be able to deal with the acute political issues currently facing society. These are a few questions: the first question is the price of the largest oil traders in the gasoline market. This issue is overlooked by the Supreme Council, while gasoline prices do not stabilize but tend to rise. All the arrangements that Janukovic's government seems to have with traders are administrative pressure, which is enough for two or three days, then prices will go up again. Without the intervention of the Supreme Council, which suggests "Our Ukraine," this question will not be solved. The second is "Criminal." As long as we break the files around the procedure until we make a decision on the impossibility of privatization between the two Chrysalis clans, we won't be able to get to the real work. Well, the third is the budget. Until we get 10 billion government-covered dollars out of the shade, the Ukrainian economy, the social protection will not be restored. Let us turn to these three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u74	Loboda, the Communist faction, please. And Mikola Nightshenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u75	May I have a word with Alexandrovsky Ally Alexandrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u76	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u77	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am simply surprised by the illogicalness present in our Hall today. We are trying to review the social laws in which we want to give people something, and yet we are not considering the law that should fill the budget and allow people to really provide serious assistance, ensure their work, ensure their earnings. This illogicality surprises me and offends me. But I understand what's behind it. That's why you want to put this combination in your pocket, put it in your pocket. I want Ukrainian citizens to understand why we are insisting today that this law be considered, so that this law will indeed allow the budget to be filled and provide social assistance to those who need it. That's enough of this in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u78	Mikola Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! 16th constituency, Hard Ukraine. I ask you very much to go back to the previous Bill 4350-1, which did not receive two votes. This is the mechanism that we want to introduce about. and is aimed at guaranteeing the first job of a graduate of educational institutions, socially vulnerable groups of citizens. It's really a social law and it's going to touch tens of thousands of people who need help with employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u80	Yeah, well, we exchanged thoughts. Here the last proposal was made, by honourable colleagues, to return to the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment. To do this, we need to vote in order to return to him. If there's insistence. Dear colleagues, just calm down. I can put it to a vote like this. Who's to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment? Please vote. [[11:53:14]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Departure from Ukraine and Entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens" is under review. [[N o M e s s a ……]] What are you yelling at? What's the “no-goods” about? What's the "no shit"? You pick the words. I'm saying again, you're just speaking out of motive. So take it, why don't you take it? Don't scream. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law is being announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies, take your seats, all of you. So let all your fellow workers sit down. Calm down, everybody sit down, then it'll be motivated. For the reasons of the vote, Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u81	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners! The faction of Communists and Socialists insists on a fundamental issue. Now they're going to the election campaign just to steal a metal mill called Creebrisstal. The two clans share it among themselves. That's understandable to everyone. And the effort to enact laws and the effectiveness of these laws today depends on whether there is money in the budget. So this is what Creebrisstal makes 400 million dollars a year. This profit will go, not into the government pocket, but into the pockets of those who are trying to steal this plant in Ukraine today, to steal this law in Ukraine’s independence, to steal from those tens of thousands of people who are still, so to speak, working in a factory, feeding their own families. The Communist faction insists that we really don't speculate or lie today that someone doesn't vote, but they understand the need to protect the property of the people of Ukraine, because by June 7 the extension of the competition, then practically this plant will be stolen from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! On your request, I have put to the vote the question of returning to the consideration of this problem. The Supreme Council did not support, Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon. It is now time to consider the Prohibition of the Privatization Act, with the President's remarks. [[Let's work harder.]] We'll look at the whole set of issues, let's just work. I did everything you wanted. Let's work now. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Leaving Ukraine and Going to Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens" is being announced for consideration. Vitaly Jakovic, please. Microphone, please turn it on. If necessary, let us continue our work so that we can consider all the questions today. I'll put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u83	Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you can hear me, I want to turn your weight. One minute, I'll report the law, why is there one minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u84	Well, please, give me as much as you need. So go to the rostrum, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u85	I wanted to make an offer to solve this parliamentary crisis that has now arisen. She can only solve, I think, when we consider the question of the Chrystals. I'd like to address those people, those of our colleagues who support not to look at this issue and dispel their illusions. What's this all about? The language goes that this group that can privatize this factory on June 12th of this month will then just resell it. So this group already has this practice, and you have to understand that. If there are illusions that this factory will work for Ukraine, that will not be the case. Other financial groups, foreign financial groups, are ready to resell and resell the business. So please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u86	Now by law, please. Turn on the microphone Šibko Vitalia Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u87	Vladimir Mikhailovich, please schedule a four - hour period for us to return to this question. With regard to this law, he has considered the committee and is invited to vote for it. But, please, let's just say that the fourth you're going to be asking this question on "Criminals" for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, since the committee has considered and considered all the observations, is proposed to be adopted in the second reading and in general as a bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Act "On order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens", this is registration number 3301. I put the vote to adopt this project in the second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[11:58:33]] For 330. Dear colleagues, I tell you again. Let's do it this way. Can I say it? Please calm down. I want to say again, dear colleagues, calm down. You're not going to run me, you're going to be run by the Supreme Council. And once again, dear colleagues, on your request, I put it to a vote, it didn't get the required number of votes. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed to look at the President's veto today. And when we consider this issue, we will consider all the other problems. In order to be sure that we will consider, let us continue our work until we have completed our consideration of all the issues. You're interested in one question, and I'm interested, like all the deputies, in all the questions that are on the agenda. So once again, I put to the vote to continue the work of the Supreme Council to consider all issues on the schedule of our meeting. Please vote, if you're in favour of this question, vote. Vote, please. [[12:00:11]] For-182 The decision is not taken. I'm acting under the Rules, and since it's 12 hours, there's a 30-minute break. To the leaders of the MPs and factions, please gather in the office of the Head. Break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u89	Please invite the distinguished national deputies to the session hall. Deep-hearted. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council during our break. We agreed on such actions. At 15. 20. To hold a meeting during which, with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, the situation related to the privatisation of the "Criminals" should be discussed. It's 4:00 p.m. to review the President's Law with observations on the privatisation of the "Criminals." After a decision has been taken, the question of the return to consideration of those draft regulations has been put to the vote, and there are about half a dozen of them who have been registered to continue to determine the decision of the Supreme Council. And now we've agreed to work actively. Is there no objection? Thank you. There's no one else from the Ministry of Defense? Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families on Living Minimum for Children in a Multi-Children Family is under review. David’s Ludmila Ivanovna, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u90	The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families refers to the subsistence minimum for children in a multi-child family submitted by the National Deputy Grigorovich and adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading. The bill provides for an increase of 20 percent for each child in a low - income and multi - child family with three or more children up to 16 years of age or, if the child learns, up to 18 years of age. There is such a proposal for a committee to adopt a law in the second reading and in general, but to put it into effect on January 1, 2005, considering that this would be additional budget costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee has been brought to your attention. All the proposals made are taken into account. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as the bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Lowly Provided Families, registration number 3565, with the clarification that this law has been in force since January 1, 2005. [[on the subsistence minimum for children in a multi-child family]] Please vote. [[12:51:43]] For 377 The law is passed. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on protection against noise is being announced for consideration. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, please, from the committee. Let's just do it as quickly as we can, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood considered the bill. Many comments were made, all taken into account. And to this day, you're looking at a bill that doesn't have all the notes taken into account and all the remarks taken into account. Both Mikola Pantelemonovich and Kozachenko Alexei Alexanderovich, Andrew School and Mikola Onischuk worked hard on the bill. The committee's decision is to ask the Supreme Council to vote on the bill in the second and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, please, I'm just asking your esteemed colleagues for an amendment. Boris Bespali, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." I am grateful to the committee for its fruitful cooperation, because, in principle, my suggestions are taken into account to supplement the noise effects that need to be limited, also pyrotechnic, because they are now even more than sound-generating, sound-producing, confusing people. This is the sixth amendment on page 3. It's written that it's counted in 182. In the new edition of article 182. But I'm definitely not in this case. So I'd like Mikola Ephraimovich to clarify this position, because it's not counted where I brought it, it's only translated into the 182nd article. It's on page two.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u95	Please, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u96	Well, your amendment is taken into account, the text “from 150” is replaced by the text “up to 200” after the text in the text. It's included in article 182, Boris Jakovitch. Is that so? Well, I don't think we're going to deny it about putting in pyrotechnics.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u97	So, shall we put this amendment to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u98	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u99	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 6 Boris Bezpalogo, this is page 3. [[12:54:42]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Yuri Carmazin, please, your amendment. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u100	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Every year in the summer season of Odessa, we have a lot of telegrams and complaints, especially in Arcadia. Taking these citizens' proposals into account, I've been directing my proposals to the committee. I am grateful that some of them are counted, but amendments 8, 11, 15 and 23 are not taken into account in part or in part. In particular, Amendment 8. I wrote: Continue with the words. These words of the 23rd hour, continue with the words "as long as we ensure that the noise gets out of the room where other people fit in." Based on the fact that our rights end where other people's rights begin, and making money in these nightclubs around here today is not supposed to abuse the citizens who live in Odessa in the resort zone but who have turned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u101	I would like to say that the amendment of national deputy Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin is partially taken into account. Why? Because we can't put what's in the 8th hour. By 8:00 p.m. By all standards and sanitation, no noise measures should be taken since the 23rd hour of the evening. This time. The other one. We cannot demand today that all buildings meet the sanitary standards, the intrusion of noise before. From the 20th hour. As a result, the amendment is partially taken into account, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u102	I'm voting on Amendment 8 Yuri Carmazin. [[12:56:56]] Z-70. Correction not accepted. What are the other adjustments? Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u103	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Nikolai Efremovich, we have spoken to you and I have had a proposal for amendment 16, but unfortunately it has not come in, although we have agreed on this issue on the committee, where in the point of operation of machines, machinery, equipment, equipment accompanied by noise, and the movement of means of transport at night on protected objects and adjacent territories is limited to the maximum. The proposal is to remove this item because the notion of "maximum limit" is absolutely, let's say, unregulated, it's spoiled, it's not allowed to interpret the law properly. And we're just, let's say, we make the law declarative. The Committee therefore agreed at the time to remove the paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u104	Thank you. I'd like to support this amendment that the National MP is talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Then maybe this way. Since this is agreed upon by the committee, he will need to take this into account in his technical work. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It's about the 11th amendment, which is called "Victory for noise-related activity." It says that under the conditions of sanitary standards, supposed noise, natural and legal persons can use sound-reproducing and sound-enhancing equipment." I propose that after the words "apparent noise," the article should be completed with the words "and the exclusion of noise in the rooms where other people live." The point is that we are, of course, very rich people who have these entertainment facilities, let's limit it, we say, provide a normal isolation so that it doesn't interfere with other people's lives and don't abuse people today both in Odessa and in Yalta and in other cities where people are resting and where they live. That's all. I don't understand why the committee doesn't go to fill in those words, even though it says that it partly counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u107	I think we can support this proposal, as Yuri Anatoliyovich now says, and we will write it when the bill is finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! This is a written amendment, so we should vote on it. I put to the vote Amendment 11 Yuri Karmazin, page 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u109	Please vote in favour of this amendment, please support this amendment. [[12:59:46]] For 118
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u110	For 118. Please, what other adjustments are there, who insists on them? I can't see. Dear colleagues! Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I want you to listen to what we need to protect people, they're still nervous today, and we're still taking and making noises affect them all the time. And he's always looking at the police, the ambulances, the courts. We have been dealing with these problems for several years in Odessa. And I'm drawing your attention to amendment 15, which also says, "numbered as an editorial." And here we're talking about transport, the sub-item to be supplemented by the words: "if transport services are to either provide noise reduction, or compensate for the costs of ensuring that noise is excluded from the room." You know. Special walls are placed outside the border to ensure that noise does not penetrate the road. We live in the center of Europe today in Ukraine, and that is not yet the case. So let's do it, even though we'll write it down in the legislation. Let's move forward, not fall behind all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u112	I would like to say about this observation that the committee took that into account and thought and appreciated the real situation today. And in my view, and in the opinion of the members of the Health Committee, the bill that was proposed by the national MPs: Pavluk, Kozachenko, School, and Onischuk, is extremely hard today and quite strong because it can limit the noise effects on people’s health. As a result, given the realities of the present, we felt that this could only be taken into account editorially and that it could not be taken into account completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u113	I'm voting on Amendment 15 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:02:12]] For-86 Correction not accepted. What else is the insistence of the people’s deputies on amendments? You don't? Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal. It is meant to adopt a bill in the second reading and generally as a law. That's why I'm voting on the second reading and generally as the bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation to protect the population from noise. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u114	The committee is asking for the support of the people's deputies, this bill. [[13:02:58]] For 336
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u115	The law is passed. Thank you. A draft law on the protection of the health of the population against the harmful effects of tobacco use is being announced for consideration. We have here a draft decision on non-admissibility. So I would like to start by listening to the authors of the draft decision on non-admissibility, vote, and depending on the results we will continue to consider. Cusco, Seminoga. Are there any authors? Please, Mikola Efremovich, allow us to base your project on our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u116	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You are considering a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of a draft Ukrainian law on public health protection against the harmful effects of tobacco products, registration number 3237/1. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this bill for raising the current issue of the health of the nation and our state. And a number of provisions in this bill deserve attention. First of all, these restrictions on tobacco advertising prohibit the sale of tobacco products to children and adolescents, restrict smoking in public places, schools, hospitals, and other places defined by rural, rural, and urban councils. But, at the same time, despite the benefits of this bill, there is a problem that makes it impossible to accept it today. Without denying the relevance and need for a legislative solution to the restriction of harmful health effects on tobacco consumption, the bill is intended to destroy legal production and the circulation of tobacco products in Ukraine, open the market for illegal products, and disrupt the use of the income part of the State Budget for 2004. It should be noted that most of the project’s standards are unacceptable in view of their economic unreasonableness, ambiguity of interpretation, and inability to implement. Moreover, if this bill is approved, almost all its positions will become effective from the day of its publication. And experts are predicting that there will be an increase in social tension and tensions in at least 50 percent of the tobacco market, which in turn will lead to the under-receiving of about half of the planned revenues from tobacco production, which in 2003 accounted for over 2 billion dollars. In the future, the bill will reduce the competitiveness of legal market participants in comparison with shadow structures that can offer today an essentially unlimited number of illegal imports into Ukraine of products, including counterfeit ones. It should also be noted that the Ukrainian Act on State Production Regulation. Ethyl alcohol and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products are already contained in the chapter “The foundations of State policy on the consumption of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, which foresees most of the world's commonly defined measures to limit harmful effects. Thus, Ukraine’s draft Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of tobacco use today must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Now we're going to vote against it, and then we're going to look at it depending on it. Honorary colleagues, since the Law on the Protection of the Health of the Population against the Harmful Consequences of the Use of Tobacco Products has been introduced by a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the Rules to be put to the vote before considering the matter. So I'd like to have your attention. I am voting on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the Ukrainian Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of tobacco use. Registration number 3337-1P. The authors are national MPs Tsushko and Seminog. [[13:07:42]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Mikola Efremovich, please, by law. Out of procedure, one minute, Rudzkowski, microphone. One minute, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u119	Rudzkowski. The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, distinguished radio listeners, discussing this issue in the session room today are principled. The situation is that over the last two weeks, the companies that provide, as it were, cigarettes and are the main producers have done a very active job with the deputies in the session room: both money and other benefits have been offered, so that this law, which will now be reported, will not pass. But it is now about the sacred health of the nation and the children. 45 percent of kids in the 11th grade smoke because advertising everywhere is allowed to do anything and everything to get rid of health and companies to earn their profits. I don't know what conscience there is in those deputies who are speaking out and speaking out against the adoption of this law. I ask you to consider it as a whole today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, let's move away from the agitation and go to the repairs of the specifics. Please, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! I think you remember very well the parliamentary hearings and the days of the government that were held in this room: this is the government's Day for cardiovascular, vascular and brain diseases, where tobacco is the third risk factor, where oncology is 70 percent lung cancer is tobacco. And you are witnessing that today the harmful effects of tobacco are harmful to Ukraine in terms of over 12 billion dollars a year. And today you have an extraordinary event: to adopt the law that the European Parliaments have adopted today. In fact, in most countries of Europe today, tobacco laws have been passed, tobacco restrictions. In our bill, however, we consider the harmful effects of tobacco on the body of a person, the damage to the body of a person’s body, the extent to which people die today. And people die from 100 to 140 thousand a year. And I appreciate this act, which is made that it's a cynical speech and a view not only to me as a national deputy, a doctor, but to colleagues who are sitting in this room. Ladies and gentlemen, I want an article. I won't stop, you piece of shit. First. the second amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u122	Let's go to the repairs. Dear colleagues, are we going to vote now? He's not here. One minute, if there's no insistence, let's vote now. Except for Carmazine. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Mikola Efremovich! I approve of your initiation and thank you for your work. But I do have a few serious comments. I made my proposals, they're not all taken into account. I'd like you to listen to them first. And secondly, I took advantage of the regulatory right and made amendments to the amendments and gave the committee and the text of those amendments. They all apply to the second part of Article 10, the amendment to the amendments. But now I'm going to ask the question of the fourth, the ninth, the 13th, the 15th, the 19th, and I'm going to start with the preamble. The fourth amendment is mine. This is very important because it defines the law, the basic legal, economic, and organizational principles of public policy aimed at ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens to health care and its protection against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke as a result of disease development as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u124	I would like to say that, Yuri Anatoliyovich, our bill deals with the harmful effects of tobacco. And the basic legal, economic, and organizational principles of the government's tobacco circulation are not discussed in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u125	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 4 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:13:01]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Amendment 9 of Carmazine. Microphone, please. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. I would ask the 1st article in article 1, paragraph 2, to replace the word "incentive" with the words "products that affect the physical condition of a person during their conscious or forced use" because tobacco is not an incentive. [[This is Amendment 9]] [[I mean, what is tobacco? Stimulating agent]] Drugs and everything else are stimulants, only on the other side of human health. So I'd like to write a little bit differently, and the definition that is now given is a plant of the pasta family that contains nicotine and is used for manufacturing, making tobacco products, replacing it with "a product that affects the physiological state of man during his conscious or forced use." Forced, I mean, because of the passive smoking that you've been burning every time in the smoking room in each of us. We can't wash our hands! There is no requirement to ban smoking and to withdraw a separate reservation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u127	So, Your Honor Yuri Anatoliyovich, your amendment and the fact that tobacco is. How a person’s physical condition is affected is included in other articles. As to what tobacco is and what it refers to, it is not the norm of our law. As a result, your amendment is edited in other articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u128	Yes, I am voting for amendment number nine Yuri Karmazin. [[13:15:02]] For-37 Correction not accepted. Next amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich, what's yours? Carmine microphone, please. 15th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u129	13th. It says here: it's edited. So I'm going to talk about two, 13th and 15th, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Because it's rejected, and it says here: editorially. It's about defining what tobacco is. I define them as products: cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, cigarettes, and lukewarm, sniffing, smoking tobacco, moss, and other tobacco products and their substitutes, which contain nicotine and resins, except pharmaceuticals that contain nicotine and cannot be used for smoking. This is the content of the amendment. I don't know why the committee doesn't want to add and expand that concept. Because then it's going to be around, even the excise can't do it properly if you don't expand it now normally. And the 15th amendment. Instead of the word "incentive effect" replace the word "influence to the physical state." You can see that as a doctor, Mikolo Efremovich, that this is an influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u130	Please look, Your Honor Yuri Anatoliovich, at 11th, this amendment you have edited, because opposite the 11th amendment is written, what are tobacco products, it's practically what you've listed here. This time. And the second. This amendment of the 15th, you say, "for the benefit of human physiology," it's elsewhere. That's why she's being rejected here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u131	I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's 13th amendment. [[13:17:10]] For-41 Correction not accepted. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 15 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:17:32]] For-32 Correction not accepted. Amendment 19 Yuri Karmazin, who is similar to the previous amendment, was voted by us, Yuri Anatoliyovich. Microphone, please. We've already voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u132	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, God with 15th. God is with her. The 22nd Amendment, please pay attention. And the 32nd amendment, please pay attention. The 22nd amendment says that in article 1, paragraph 6, the words "including a non-smoking person" are replaced by the words "a non-smoking person." Including forced, a person who doesn't want to." The 32nd adds the words, "when you fall into the human body." So I would ask them to support the committee. I don't understand why we don't have passive smoking and we don't go the way that all of Europe goes. And I made an amendment to the amendment, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a new edition of part 2 of the article, and I'm still doing 22nd and 32nd. [[we haven't reached the article yet]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u133	Yeah, I'll give you an answer. The committee wrote in an editorial that was proposed by the committee: "passive tobacco smoking is the inhalation of tobacco smoke along with air, including forced smoking by a non-smoker." So you're redacting your amendment completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u134	I put to the vote Amendment 22 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:19:18]] For-21 Correction not accepted. Amendment 32 Yuri Karmazin is voting. [[13:19:40]] For 20 It's not working. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, what's your amendment? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, 37th Amendment, there's another one. But I am paying attention to major adjustments that depend on a lot of things. It's written that reads editorially. It's not really taken into account: paragraph 10 of article one, I propose that you write in the text, "Nicotine Pollution." What's that? I say, "Result the combustion of tobacco products that remain after the end of smoking in the form of substances, the smell in the body of humans, in the room and in the clothes." For all who do not smoke, this is understandable and obvious. In civilized countries, these are the kind of records that are made. Why don't we do it I don't know. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to make sure that we don't need a lawsuit in the Supreme Council about you smelling like some kind of smoking waste all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u136	The committee considered the concept to be broader and more accessible: "Smoker smoke is a combustion product of tobacco products emitted in the air as a result of their smoking and containing harmful substances for human health."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u137	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 37 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:21:19]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on your amendments? Today is not your day, please give up. Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u138	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'll start with a lineup. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, my day is yet to come, in Ukraine they will realize that we must follow Sweden, to the normal countries, not to go to foreign companies that have lobbied today. So I propose the 42nd amendment to complete paragraph 10 of the first article with a new paragraph. Tobacco addiction is a person's psychological and physiological dependence on nicotine and tobacco products, tobacco accessories are objects and devices for tobacco use, such as porters, uniforms, cigarette paper for self-slippers, pipes, ashtrays and other fire extinguishers that can be used for another. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you follow now. The time will come for you to raise these questions yourself when you realize what cancer is, to become such a TB, and that it begins with passive smoking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u139	God rest his soul. What are you talking about? Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u140	I would like to say that this amendment, mentioned by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, is edited in virtually everyone, in most of the following articles about harmful health effects. So we literally didn't count it. But it's editorially completely taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u141	I'm voting on the amendment of 42 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:23:15]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the 46th amendment, where the first article is proposed to be supplemented by a new paragraph in this edition. Signs of resin and nicotine, see what kind of inscriptions we have. Americans make healthy for themselves, and for us, there's no one to see. Thus, inscriptions on the contents of resins and nicotine, information on the maximum permitted content of resins and nicotine in a unit of tobacco products contained in consumer packages, packs of tobacco products and other sites defined by this Law and the Advertising Act, medical warnings - information on the negative impact of tobacco use on human health, contained in consumer packages of tobacco products and elsewhere defined by this Law and the Advertising Act. An advertisement for tobacco products is any kind of information designed to directly or indirectly promote tobacco products into the market, including commercial advertising, which includes the name of manufacturers, names and brands of products, trade marks, emblems or other characteristics of tobacco products, promotion of purchases, consumption of tobacco products, including the demonstration of them through films that go on and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u143	I'd like to say that those amendments that Yuri Anatoliyovich said were included, first of all, in the Advertising Act. We even tried not to interfere with the advertising law here because we saw how much tobacco manufacturers lobbyed to prevent this bill from being passed. We basically insisted on the harmful effects of tobacco, on health care. Regarding resin, on page 46, the standards that the VOC recommends today, which are recommended in accordance with the framework convention on restrictions on smoking. It's nicotine -- up to 1.3 mg -- and we recommend it gradually -- from 2005 to 2006, because it's very large to lobby tobacco producers so that they don't accept this bill. As a result, we are gradually recommending the introduction of all of this and the amendments that Yuri Anatoliyevich said were practically presented in the paper, including on page 46.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u144	I'm voting on Amendment 46 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:26:02]] For-41 The decision is not taken. Please, what other amendments are there? Carmazine, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I insist only on adjustments that will ensure the health of the nation. Therefore, the 57 amendment is where it refers to the basic task of the law: the introduction of criteria that give a person a right and the possibility to protect in court the violation of constitutional rights for the protection of his or her health, his or her protection against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke, his or her compensation for the damage that is necessary to ensure that the loss caused to a person by active or passive smoking and the judicial protection of his or her interests in court is determined." This is also fully in line with the international instruments signed by Ukraine and the Warsaw Declaration against Tobacco, the European Declaration, which was signed by all civilized countries, and we join. And we don't write these criteria. Let's write it down because it says "accounted for."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u146	I want to say that this is partly taken into account, because this is not the norm of this bill regarding court decisions and infringements. According to the bill, he foresees in the final positions that the Cabinet of Ministers may develop certain legal acts to ensure that the bill acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u147	Amendment 57 of Yuri Karmazin votes. [[13:28:03]] For-38 The decision is not taken. What other amendments, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u148	I am. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I'm talking to my esteemed fellow national deputies: well, look, you're still going to have to improve this law. I propose that paragraph 10 of part 2 of article 3 read: "Security."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u149	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u150	This is Amendment 77, page 19. I'm already showing for one thing. I got 'em. I worked seriously on international conventions: "Ensure a mechanism and conditions for informing the population about the harmful effects of tobacco use on the health of a person who uses tobacco products or who receives tobacco pollution as a result of passive smoking or by being near the source of tobacco pollution and promoting a healthy lifestyle." So this amendment that's written in editorial terms, it's actually just a very small piece counted. I don't understand why, Mikola Ephraimovich. I tried to help you and your committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u151	Yuri Anatoliyovich, thank you so much for the amendments you made, because they greatly improved the bill, but we only considered what was involved in our bill of this one, which is under consideration today, about the harmful effects of tobacco on people’s health. And in advertising the Advertising Act, as well as in branding tobacco products, these comments are practically taken into account. That's why we wrote it as an editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u152	I'm betting on the vote of 77 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:30:07]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Mikola Efremovich! We're on our way. I'm going to amend 88 pages 22, 88. I'm asking you to turn it on. print as follows: "To give citizens of Ukraine free treatment of tobacco addiction." The point is -- well, the bottom line is that tobacco addiction leads to the diseases you started, Mikola Efremovich, which we talked about here: both tuberculosis and cancer. And we were listening here. And we do not foresee the possibility of free treatment for those defenseless groups of the population. Those who are protected will pay and always pay. Do you understand? So I would ask that this be taken into account in full, not in part, as it's written here right now. Because part of it doesn't suit me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u154	Yuri Anatoliyovich, if article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine is amended, which states that medical assistance is provided free of charge, then this amendment may have to be made. Why? Tobacco causes disease. And since the disease has occurred, according to the Constitution, sickness is now available free of charge to people, or medical care in the event of illness. As a result, we counted in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u155	Amendment 88 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:31:58]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Yuri Anatolyovich, who's still fixing yours. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! I still have a lot of changes, but I see the point, the ideology. You don't want to change the amendments, so I still have about thirty amendments of different ones that are somehow counted. I don't want to take your time, but I want you to understand that you don't have to change anything in the Constitution, you just have to change the approach. And when voters come to what we're doing wrong today, we definitely need to go where the amendment I want to make, I want to say that where you have to write that the owner or authorized persons are obliged to take and equip specially equipped separate smoking facilities equipped with hermetically tambourines and forced ventilation or air purifiers from tobacco smoke. That's what we need to do around here. I don’t understand why the Health Committee won’t come and write. Mikolo Efremovich, on the other hand, I cut the cost of health care by recording me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u157	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, it is here that it is written that in public food establishments, at other establishments there should be no more than 50 percent of the area for those who smoke, and smoke should not enter a room where people do not smoke. But we can't use this bill to set standards for isolation of some kind or some kind of airtight action. That is, today’s technology allows us to take precautions to prevent smoke from entering the smoking room. As a result, your changes are taken into account in an editorial way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u158	I put to the vote the amendment of Yuri Carmazin, which has just been made. [[13:34:33]] For-45 Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a law. Change the vote. The Cabinet of Ministers, please, very briefly. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Timur. ‘ First Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine. The Ministry of Health supports the bill submitted for consideration by the National Deputies of Poland and Bogotyrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u159	And Rudzkowski. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The law will determine the legal, economic, organizational principles of public policy aimed at warning smoking among children and young people, reducing the level of use.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u160	Yes, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u161	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, has made a number of proposals in the process of discussing the bill. Lawmakers - Polishchuk, Bogatirirova, Rudzikowski. Suggestions have been made that branding on cigarette packs should be introduced as of January 1, 2005, as production is already under way today and could be a major loss to tobacco producers. Such an amendment should be taken into account. Next. There was also an amendment that the advertising law, we will abide by the advertising law that was passed by the Supreme Council at the end of last year. And all the other amendments are practically accounted for here. And the committee is asking to support this bill in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote on adoptions with the clarifications that the committee head has just made, in second reading and in general as a bill for the protection of the health of the population from the harmful effects of tobacco use. Registration number 3237-1. Please vote. I support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u163	Today, I think the people of Ukraine will see how national deputies care for the health of the population. [[13:37:05]] For 175
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u164	For negative 175. The solution. Please, one minute, technical, calm down, please. It's technically not working, we're voting now. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u165	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs! Yuri Carmazin. I urge everyone to see that there are no technical disadvantages. I personally raised my hand, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the amendment of the 300th, where in sub-paragraph one of the closing positions, the words "from 1 January 2004" would be replaced by the words "from the day of publication." So the law takes effect from the day of publication. I'm like, "except parts," and all this waste, and lobbying that's now being offered under the pressure of certain structures, has to be discarded. Vote as stated in the Constitution! Since the day of the publication! And what Philippe Morris or other companies think is their personal problem. They take advantage of people’s health. So I suggest you write "from the moment of publication." It says here that the offer is included. This is the offer of Gorbal and Carmazin, 320th offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u166	I'm voting on the 320th amendment of Gorbal and Carmazin. [[13:38:41]] For-69 The decision is not taken. I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the Human Health Act against the harmful effects of tobacco use, registration number 3237-1. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill. You will do a great deal for the people of Ukraine. Please, hold! [[13:39:13]] For-187 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u168	The factions, please. Let's do the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u169	Please, Victor Pinzenik. The factions? Please take the factions. Dear colleagues, of course. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 39, "Ukraine" - 0 Communist factions - 58, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 5, "Dem. Initiatives. The People's Government" -4, the SPU -6, Block Timoshenko - 18, Center -7, Union - 16, NDP, industrials, entrepreneurs - 16, Agrarian - 12, non-fraction - 6. Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The problem with this law is not about the substance of the problem posed by the committee and the authors of the law, the problem is in many of the rules that apply to the regulation of entrepreneurial activities that are not entirely correct and correct and lead to the shadowing of the economy. So my suggestion is to re-read it, to clean up the standards that apply to the regulation of entrepreneurial activity and then to enact it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u171	I just have one question, dear colleagues, don't think of it as a replica and a lesson. If the author of the draft law doesn't vote for it, and the Ukraine region gives you zero, how do you figure that out? Why are you lighting up the work of the Supreme Council then? Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u172	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The Socialist faction has looked closely at the project, and it sees the need to adopt a law that regulates the use of tobacco in Ukraine and does not allow it to be abused by the health of those who do not smoke, however. But there's a colossal kind of, I'd say business-certain and economical. So there's an offer, and the faction suggests that we take the second reading out again to take this colossal out completely. And then so that people would know that really Parliament has passed a law that cares about the preservation of human health.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u173	Andrew School, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u174	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First, the usual thing to talk about was that we needed to improve and improve this bill, but why didn't it happen before it was developed, it was on the committee quite a lot of time. And all those who want to save the Ukrainian tobacco industry could come there, make their amendments, and work with the committee. If that didn't happen, and this is demonstrated by the vote, then I just don't see any other way out of this than to suggest a second reading again. Because it won't work. And I also want to support it. If not only the author of the bill votes, but the whole faction does not vote, on the one hand, and the other faction does not vote in favour of the bill of its author, a member of the faction, it also raises questions for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u175	I am voting on the proposal that has just been made to reread the draft Health Act against the harmful effects of tobacco use. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u176	People's deputies, please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:42:48]] For 228
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u177	Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We go back to the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act 2000-2005 and the draft Act amending article three of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act on the transition to a tri-species warehouse. Ukrainian Defence Minister Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk The focal point will be the chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov. Is there any objection to discussing these two bills? Thank you. We continue our work, the morning session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished military personnel! On February 19, of this rostrum, when the reform law, the draft law on the reform of the Armed Forces, was discussed, I thoroughly put this argument forward for the sake of its adoption, and for the number and unification of the two. the unity of the three. Two species in one and social protection. In addition, I would like to stress today that the problem of reforming the Armed Forces today is much too late for the real needs of the Ukrainian army. We need to act now. Our neighbours, including the Eastern Europeans, have long realized that now the army is not strong in numbers or just in numbers of tanks, the army is strong above all when it is equipped with the most advanced weapons and so-called "smart munitions", a well-trained and well-provisioned personal composition, the army is strong today when it has the most modern means of technical intelligence, communication and automatic control. In the coming years, the arms of many European countries will be equipped with drones in large numbers, a new generation of electronic warfare systems, and they will be able to make their opponent blind and deaf. Even now, new systems of individual security are being tested against special undergarments with various sensors and stimulants, effective means of individual protection, and fighting for special food in the field of combat. All of this costs a lot of money, but it guarantees a convincing advantage over any opponent who stands a few flights below the level of security for his troops. In the next 2-3 years, the Armed Forces of one of Europe's leading countries will make up 250,000 military personnel, but only 90,000 will make up the fighting forces, and 160,000 will be the securing. That's one block of problems. The other one. Today, all of Ukraine’s neighbours, except Moldova, belong to collective defence and security systems. One to NATO, the other to the Tashkent Treaty. And in the first, and in the second, there's the principle of "one for all, and all for one." As a result, building some hypothetical patterns of possible military conflicts and with some of the neighbors, they say, one-on-one is not serious at all. And whatever the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, this is no longer the main argument. [[either the number of tanks or the number of artillery]] The power of each of the military and political blocs that surround us is thousands of times the Ukrainian military power. Third. In order to provide the Ukrainian Armed Forces with normal security, their modern infrastructure and numbers, in accordance with regulations and legislation, require a little more than 10 billion dollars. These are very accurate calculations. In order to start rearming the Ukrainian army into new systems of fighting and defending new systems of communication and radio surveillance, it takes an additional 2, 3, 4 billion dollars and several years, not all of which are real from today’s economic potential. The largest budget for an independent Ukraine of the Armed Forces today is 4.9 billion dollars. The inadequacy is remarkable. And this inadequacy, unfortunately, has existed for 12 years. And there's no such thing as miracles, as we know. Therefore, Ukraine’s Armed Forces are a complex system. Having accumulated these indistinguishable features, he begins to cause serious setbacks. Five major human casualties in the past three years have been evidence that this complex system of things has deteriorated and has become a danger factor. The number that is being proposed today and the reform of the Armed Forces under the programme, which has been developed and approved by the government, envisions a reduction in the number of people this year by 70,000. What's that number? She's very scary. 70,000 is, first of all, 20,000 vacancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u179	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u180	One minute. And this decreases by 14,000 the call of soldiers to the ranks of the Armed Forces, or soldiers. The other one. 5,000 military personnel are railway troops that are being transferred to the Ministry of Transport. There's a $3,000 drop in the number of students. Another foresees a shorter, more faithful, disintegration of parts that have long been unfavourable or unfeeling for many years as a result of numerous tests. So the solution to the infrastructure and the number that is proposed in the law is the most optimal option. The draft Law on the Social Protection of Military Workers closes all acute problems for those who will be reduced. Everything that's necessary in the organizational, regulatory and legal context is prepared. Please support the bill and vote for it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u181	Thank you. By the second law, if possible, Eugene Kirilovich, this is about the Armed Forces regarding the transition to a trividal warehouse.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u182	To implement article 3, paragraph (a), of the President's decree of 6 December 2001 on measures to further strengthen the state's defence capacity, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has developed proposals for changes to the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. The main aim of the change is to continue military reform in Ukraine and to strengthen leadership in the defence sphere. What does the unification of two types of armies do? First. We and China remain two countries in the world that have not done so, and in Europe we are alone. More recently, two years ago, Belarus, and Russia. This is because modern military conflicts have shown that a unified species called the Air Force in many countries is becoming much more effective, it becomes much more manageable, and it is practical, for example, that we have 40 percent of the cost savings for the maintenance of two species. I emphasize that the merger of two species today of the Ukrainian Armed Forces: anti-air defence and air force, gives us 40 percent of the cost savings. The other one. These are 41,000 military personnel serving in overlapping and repetitive structures. And that's 37 general positions that are going to be cut down, like these structures, they're not going to be needed in the new form. And one of the main elements is that we now have a first-class infrastructure in Ukraine to house the main headquarters of the new species in Winnice. We've done a lot of research, we've checked it out. The group, the training that was created in the Ministry, examined it. I myself have been on this subject of 43 rocket armies of the strategic assignment of the Soviet Union. The headquarters is reinforced by nuclear and all other strikes. And that's why today we have all the infrastructure we need to safely protect the headquarters of a new kind of force. There are still a number of additional arguments that relate essentially to the military. Please support the bill and vote for it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I see, are willing to ask questions, let's ask five minutes of questions. Please sign up, Your Honor. Put your names on the board, please. Alexiyuk, faction of our Ukraine. Is there an Alexiyuk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u184	I'd like a word with you, George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u185	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u186	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Head, your honor's reporter! I say quite responsibly that, unfortunately, there is currently a reduction in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and completely contrary to existing legislation. At present, there is a law adopted in December 2000 on the overall structure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. By the end of this year, the total number of the Armed Forces is slightly higher than 380,000. Unfortunately, the redundancies are being cut. I'm not saying that some parts don't have to be transformed or evolved in general. But the scientific base and the legislative base are not deceived. There's no new edition of the military doctrine, a strategic defence bulletin, which, by the way, the Ministry of Defense didn't give me that, but it sent me to the Secretary of the RNB, and there's only general things.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u187	Thank you. In October of last year, there was a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council, where the issue was discussed in detail and a decision was taken that was put into effect by the President's decree on preparation, execution, even there was an accelerated reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, based on a real day that radically changed the world's approach to the functions and tasks of the armed forces of any state; the second was also the basis for calculating the economic possibilities of today's state, and this year in fact, as in previous years, there is a contraction that took place: last year it was reduced to 11,000, beyond the previous year's 15 thousand, 99th and 98th to 45 thousand. And 50,000, that is, the process of reduction and optimization, has occurred in both life and economic possibilities. The military, and their dozens, the few tens, which have been unfeeling for years, are not understood by any civilian who needs it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u188	Yes, Paul Sulkowski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u189	I would like to thank Eugene Kirilovich, indeed, for the meaningful report from the two bills. And so I think, honourable national MPs, no matter how much we discuss, and what is absolutely necessary for Ukraine today is to adopt these draft laws, here I think there is no doubt. And I urge all the national MPs that we really need to vote, support, allow the Ministry of Defence to continue working, really, to put our Ukrainian troops in order. Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich, and I wish you success in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u190	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u191	Yes, Orzhachowski, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u192	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give the floor to the national deputy Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u193	Nosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u194	Eugene Kirilovich, would you please tell me whether this law will affect you, and when you say that our well-trained armies will cease, as they say, to beat their own, so that strangers and spirits will be afraid, because it is repeated: that they struck down a rocket strike against Blorama, that they knocked down a civilian passenger plane, they blew up warehouses in Artemovsk on Novogoddansk under Melitopol with known consequences? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u195	In fact, I will continue your opinion and the answer to that question. The degradation of the complex system of the Armed Forces has reached the point where physical factors take effect, except for discipline, apart from school. And what I'm stressing in the last few years is that the distinguished national MPs, these terrible and tragic events have taken place over the last 3.5 years. It's 3.5 years more scary than in the last decade, it's that frightening signal that today gives us information that still such a large system can't exist in the way it is. Are there resources to boost the prestige of military service? Yes. If reform goes according to the programme developed by both the strategic bulletin and the government-approved programme, 440 million dollars are released in the budget next year, which can go towards increased military support, and 650 million dollars are released in 2006 to maintain unnecessary huge infrastructure. So within two years, we're getting a billion dollars allocated to the budget to solve the social problems of the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u196	Bauer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u197	Mikhailo Bauer, Cherniewec District, electoral district number 204, Hard Ukraine faction. Dear John Kirilovich! Clearly, it was necessary to reform the Armed Forces, and it must have been done earlier. But in the process of carrying them out, very many qualified, experienced, educated military officers are released. Please tell me, have you studied the possibility of employing them in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, because there is still a large reserve there, I think? And the second question. Of course, you know who gets into the army -- these are usually children from low-income families, those who are socially vulnerable and all that sort of thing. Tell me, did you think and anticipate the transition to a professional army in the reform process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u198	Thank you. Indeed, that is how the work was done. More than 100, 130 military personnel are ready to take up the Ministry of Internal Affairs in a number of areas, especially in the Plains region. Part of it, too, is taken by foreign troops. Where our garrisons are released. As far as this is concerned, this work continues because soldiers who have good training today have demand in the labour market. The only question is to help them qualify. In this regard, we have carried out our work, even the corresponding agreements signed with the Ministry of Family and Youth, with the Ministry of Social Policy and Work, with the National Employment Center. We now know in detail what is the labour market that is dynamic about the labor market today in every area, but mainly in those cities where our so-called critical garrisons are located. As far as the pageants are concerned. About the soldiers, the officers, you know that's what everyone chooses. As for the conscripts, I've already told you that 14,000 of us this year are reducing the recruitment of boys to the Armed Forces. At the moment, there are fewer military forces now than 2,400. But we're waiting for the law to go up to 14,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u199	Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich, has the floor for the report. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u200	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, honored ones. Our committee was looking at these bills. Most of them were spoken for acceptance. With one comment that the number of the Armed Forces is being determined by the submission of the President of Ukraine, as defined by the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. I would like to make some remarks in addition to what the minister said. First. I would like to say that the committee was constantly concerned that reductions in the armed forces and the review of the structure were not taking place in the legal field. On November 14, on behalf of the committee, I wrote to the President, where I drew attention to this. This was also discussed in my address on behalf of the Committee to the President of March 1, this year. I mean, the committee didn't go past these violations, I'd say, the Constitution. The other one. We consider the President's proposal to be ideal. It shows a lack of consistency in the position of head of state, which has led to a very difficult psychological and human atmosphere in the military. The fact is that the political decision to reduce the Armed Forces for two years by 155 thousand has been taken by the National Security and Defence Council and approved by the President's decree. For the military, this was said to be a team before carrying out the proper work. The work was done. Determining parts of the military that are to be disbanded. Work was done with those military officials who were supposed to be released in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. People are waiting for that decision. Sadly, only on February 10 of this year came a draft law from the government. The president didn't bring it. We needed more than a month and a half after that to communicate with the President's administration that the President should carry out his constitutional and legal mandates and submit a report on the number of the Armed Forces. We only got it recently. The responsibility of the Supreme Council now rests with the fact that we have not yet passed this law. And now, of course, it's just that we're setting the number of Armed Forces on December 30 that's obviously not enough. Because reform is taking place, both the army and society need to know the direction in which this reform is going to take place. And we were constant supporters of this issue being discussed in the Supreme Council. You know how many times our proposal to hold the Government's Military Reform Day has been rejected. Thank God, today we have decided to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about how it exercises its constitutional powers in the field of defence. I think it might help. I talked about it yesterday. That the Budget Resolution does not even mention a category such as the defense of the state. And given the fact that this situation has occurred, the committee believes that we must adopt these laws today, and on the number of the Armed Forces, and on the transition to a three-species structure, with one detail, that the number of the Armed Forces is determined by the submission of the President of Ukraine. I could finish my speech by simply adding to the fact that we have a draft decree on the non-admissibility of this law, and perhaps it should be considered and voted first. The committee favours the adoption of these two laws. And in view of the fact that social guarantees will be defined by the law that we will consider when these two are resolved. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u201	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues! Since we have the draft Inadmissibility Order, George Manchulenko has the floor to argue a position on the draft Unadmissibility Order. [[authors Vasjunik and Manchulenko]] Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u202	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Sadly, we sometimes have to consider such laws as apply the principle of putting a car in front of a horse, unfortunately. This is also the case in this situation that instead of first adopting the amendments to the "On the overall structure and number of the Armed Forces 2000-2005" Act, the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing its draft law, which is expected to have 275,000 armed forces at the end of 2004. After a long period of time, the President of Ukraine is introducing a bill amending the Law on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces 2000-2005, which is foreseen at the end of this year to be 285,000. So there's already a difference of ten thousand. As we can see, the Commander-in-Chief has one figure, one vision, the Cabinet of Ministers has a completely different vision. They can't get together on their own -- what kind of numbers in Ukraine are needed, what numbers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are needed. Unfortunately, so far there has been no new edition of the military doctrine, no approved strategic defence bulletin. I asked the Secretary of Defense to hand me this strategic protective bulletin presented in Brussels. Sadly, however, the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament did not see him in the eyes. So I got an answer from the Ministry of Defense that we need to go to the Council of Homeland Security and Defense, because the draft of this strategic defence bulletin is there. And that's how they try to solve these questions. Dear friends, did anyone see such serious things with such approaches being decided by cavalry raids? Because in fact we have no argument as to why we need 200,000 people by the end of 2005, not, let's say, 150 or 250 thousand. There is no scientific base, no approved new edition of military doctrine. Undefined potential threats, challenges, and dangers. But the reduction is, unfortunately, in a clear order. I think the Attorney General should have intervened here too, why is the law now in force, on what grounds, and who allowed it to be violated by cutting down without justification, and often-hunting out of the ranks of the armed forces of experienced young officers? I have dozens, hundreds of letters now. Let me give you an example. Two colonels are doing one thing. One is 54 years old, another is 44 years old. Because 54 years are left behind. Because 44 are freed from armed forces. Is that a fair approach? And dozens of these examples. We have no moral right to support this bill. I ask you not to vote for him. The faction of "Our Ukraine" only supports the second bill, the three-species bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces for 200-2005, registration number 5,500. [[14:11:26]] For-76 The decision is not taken. One minute, calm down. Dear colleagues, since this question is extremely painful, let us discuss it within 15 minutes, and then we will make a decision. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, calm down. There are people here who wrote it down. Let us be patient. This is a very important question. Please have a list of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Alexander Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u204	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. It's been more than twelve years since the summer canal of the myth of "the invincible and legendary, in battles that have known the joy of victory". And the mighty battle shield of the former superstate was split into tiny fragments. Since then, to our deepest regret, the prestige of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has been declining every year. And their combat capability is getting closer and closer to zero. Obviously, although a very sensitive response by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to such a dangerous trend, the directive on the reform and reduction of the national armed forces was a directive. This decision of the Supreme Military Leader also touched several parts of the Kirovograd garrison. In particular, one of the best aviation parts of Ukraine. And according to preliminary plans, the base should be abandoned by 500 people from all the regiment services. Many officers at risk of being reduced to full service, which means that the right to form a military pension is limited to a few years. Prepared pilots, each with a million dollars worth of training, are now at risk of staying away without any civil profession or prospects for civilian service. Many soldiers to be reduced have no housing, and some have a ten - year extension. This is called the reform of the Armed Forces. When you meet these eagles, you're amazing. They do not have a soul for their future, but a soul hurts for the fate of winged machines. They say that they must first take care of the maintenance of technology, because they are unique modern aircraft, which will not be restored later on, nor will they be able to. To them, airplanes are a living organism. And why does our State not need such people? Why is it not appreciated that it has been created for decades by such heavy human labor? And these unique planes are going to cut on scrap metal and show it on TV with the ridicule of showing it. This is also called reform. Meeting on the ground with the Armed Forces, with the military, they say that the disgrace of a State that cannot create anything unique except the sale and destruction of all the best things that were in the country under Soviet authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u205	Alexander Kuzmuk. Next is Peter Simonenko instead of Solomon. We agreed that we would finish the question now, but we can't stop the question. Is Alexander Kuzmuk there? None. Please, Peter Simonenko. Dear colleagues, we've been taking a lot of breaks today. At least let's finish the two questions. Well, we're supposed to talk, so how do we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u206	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! The issue is being discussed in an archival and complex manner because it is being discussed in the context of a systemic crisis in Ukraine. Archived because it is a matter of national security, it is a defence of the country's capacity, and it is a crucial institution of public authority. His condition answers the question: What is the state of power? What's the nature of it? And we can argue today. That he's a criminal in his own way. And, of course, what are the tasks of this institution of public authority? The numbers that we are discussing today are determined on the basis of national interests, not based on the new military doctrine, the new weapons that Ukraine has achieved, let alone, or in the community with other States in the post-Soviet area and the experience, unfortunately, of fighting in other hot spots of the world, namely, what NATO today dictates by implementing a programme for the capture of new territories for that purpose. To promote the interests of transnational capital in the territory of the underdeveloped States whose list has also been included in Ukraine. We are indeed facing the enormous problem today that the army is unable, its quality composition cannot solve the problem of our country's security, as my comrades have said. And what we're really worried about today is that if hordes are guarding warehouses, strategic warehouses, and they're reducing numbers, then we're wondering, why are we in the army? And because the generals have indeed become the same merchants, the generals have begun to trade weapons, trade systems, sell national security, as Mr. Skiparsky has done, and are still carrying generals. That's why it's a question of today. The events in Melitopol are the result of virtually without appropriate sanctions, operations to dispose of types of ammunition, on colored metals, on trots and others. I've just returned from Pavlovgrad, my respectable colleagues. In Pavlovgrad today, a new technological catastrophe threatens us with you as a result of this policy, which has been pursued before: the Americans have said, and our generals as deniers have fled to do what they have demanded, destroying the unique missile complex of our Ukraine with you, which has ensured independence. And it led to 5,000 tons of terrible waste being there today, and people don't know what to do. The big city can take off at any moment. Today, we state that past service policy has led to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u207	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u208	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Over the past few years, I have argued from all quarters, in the same way that nothing is done to make Ukraine a viable country. And it was only today that Eugene Marchuk, as secretary of defense, declared from this high rostrum that he had made a public secret that for years the skyscrapers, but also the degradation. But this did not happen because of the military. I bow low to them and yet for their patience. And this was because of leadership, because the commanding officer for ten years, no one changed, was Leonid Kuchma -- that's why this happened. And all the problems we're having right now and the problems with nuclear weapons. Yesterday General Clark says, "You shorten the Armed Forces, and everything, and everything's fine, and NATO is shining for you." Dear friends! All of this is totally unacceptable, what the President is proposing today. Today, I want to say whether the number of threats to Ukraine has decreased or not with NATO enlargement. I will say that today the number of threats for Ukraine has increased. It's getting harder. What are we doing? In Belgrade, the first airline division -- the pride of Ukraine decreases to 500. [[First!]] Eugene Kirilovich! But we need to review this doctrine. It can shorten those skyscrapers that are somewhere but probably not in Belgrade and probably not the First Aeromobolic Division. Next. What does the President propose to us today? By December 30, reduce the number of military personnel to 210,000, that is, immediately compared to the law that we have to reduce by 90,000. Shorten, without thinking about what we have to do with the law by 2005. What's going to happen next year, Leonidas Danilovich doesn't care because he realizes he's not going to be president. And now the destruction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces continues. So I am definitely against this law, against such a law, when there is no defined doctrine that was adopted back in 1993, and now it is not. So it is sad that what Manchulenko said did not support the majority and did not vote in favour of that law. Now it's about aviation and air defense. Dearly beloved my friends, what is Air Force? It's nothing. Military Air Force -- that's pretty clear, because there's Navy, even though there's little force in those naval forces, but the name has to be the same, and there's got to be a military-air force. And let's not rush to cut those planes, because we haven't bought any planes in 13 years. Ten tanks didn't get paid. You want 62 tanks of modernization to solve the problems of today's war? It can't be solved. And you know it well enough that they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u209	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction, please. And then we'll ask the Secretary of Defense to do the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u210	Respectable comrades! The radios, the people's deputies! This law is, of course, illogical because, at least, the main reason for the decrease in the size of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is the lack of financial resources. I would like to ask those who are present and those who are listening. Please tell me, is there at least one industry with sufficient funding in Ukraine? In Ukraine, there is insufficient funding for education, health care and the development of its own production. There's none. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce the armed forces due to a shortage. Most importantly, any country in the world is the security of the country. That's the first one. Second. Based on the fact that the State must reduce only because it does not have the necessary resources, we can come before the case, or it is asked what might be insufficient in Ukraine and for the maintenance of its own population. Yesterday, the budget process was discussed with a figure that had also decreased by almost 400,000 in 2003. The question is, "What does this do specifically for the reasons that there is no money in Ukraine?" But if it's special, it's a crime. And the last moment I'd like to say. At a time when there's no money in Ukraine to keep an army, you know, from a diaper everyone, if a country can or cannot hold an army of its own, it certainly does. There's no other way out of this. Therefore, even from these considerations, we cannot support the fact that the people of Ukraine will see the people of Ukraine moving forward. And, of course, before the army is cut down, it would have to worry about what the Ministry of Defence has been saying for 15 years now that we need to move on to new combat capabilities, and we need to move on to new means. That is, first of all, we need to increase the fighting capacity of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to be sure that it will protect the people, including from extinction. And money, money on the army must be found, including not privatizing or.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final word is Minister of Defense Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. Then I'll give you my word on the motive for voting. Time's up, dear fellows. There have already been recorded people. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u212	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would continue with the opinion of the last reporter, and I would agree that there is no need for any reform in the plan that we propose to do if today's structure of the armed forces and the number of funding were in line with the laws that have been adopted, to fully meet the needs. And this, I told you, is 10.2 billion. Just to maintain the military force in today's numbers and in today's infrastructure, I'm not talking about development anymore. The other one. However, even if this situation is preserved, it should be borne in mind that today, in the budget, the largest and most disciplined executive budget, as much as 2 percent of the aviation gas needs are allocated for the preparation of airships, 14 percent of all fuel. The state owed $614 million to military personnel. For military uniforms, for those who serve today. Therefore, it would be possible not to carry out the full financing of the modern army if it were a percentage. But once again, she is the largest in Europe and the poorest of the military. Ladies and gentlemen, you will vote as you see fit. But at the same time, I'd like to take into account whether the situation today is being preserved, which over the course of three and a half years has given us such terrible P.P.s, and whether the system will continue to deteriorate, and whether the same military personnel that you're not able to raise in this room will continue to suffer. Because there won't be any money in the budget for that number, and you won't accept it. So I would like to ask you to look at the future. for the future and to help our military personnel, those who will serve in the future army of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u213	Yes, for the reasons of the vote, please, Yavorowski. Then Rudzkowski and we'll vote. Please invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u214	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yuschenka block "Our Ukraine". Dear parliamentarians, Mr Eugene Kirilovich, I am very sorry that this law will be broken, but I will also vote against it. What our army needs is a radical upgrade is an absolute axiom. But it's that all the previous ministers were just calling. In front of Kuchma, reporting. I think it's okay. And today's vote. We threw 30 to 40 men on the street. This time it's going to be 70. I am convinced that this is very dangerous for Ukraine. In addition, 614 million have owed our army, and the government owes it only for ammunition. And that's when we said yesterday that it was practically stolen in the third year's budget of 4 billion. That's why I'm convinced, Eugene Kirilovich, and don't insult us, we can't vote for it. We can't throw that amount out on the street today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u215	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u216	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Minister, please confirm that you are correcting the information. In Turkey today, two containers of weapons from Ukraine are being held. It means rockets, grenade launchers, artillery shells, and so on. Is it from Melitopolis or the next warehouse that should be torn down in the near future? It's a new world-wide arms scandal. If this is not available and the Internet is distributed, correct now. If this is true, why does Ukraine again refer weapons to the Arab nations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Because we have one. What? Because we have practically two laws out of one law. specified committee. So I'm going to put the presidential vote first, as it was registered first. If he doesn't get the required number of votes, then there will be no objections, we will vote in favour of the specified committee. Is there no objection? I am voting for approval, for the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces 2000-2005. Registration number 5500. This is the Presidential Bill. I'm taking the offer that came out. [[14:31:30]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, "Regions of Ukraine" - 60, Communist faction - 1, SDPU - 39, Labour Ukraine - 29, "Dem. Initiatives. The People's Government" -7, SPU - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, Center - 3, Union - 11, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 16, Agrarian - 11, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote draft law number 5500-D, I beg your attention, there's one point -- to make, and then to make, the wording of the President of Ukraine -- further along with the text of these changes. I'm voting on the approval of this bill as a whole. Registration number 5500-D. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[14:32:39]] For 212 The bill was rejected. May I have your attention, please? Calm down, dear fellows! We had the second draft of the law, registration number 4592. This is a bill amending article three of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. [[on the transition to the trividal composition]] I'm voting for approval in the entire draft of this law. Registration number 4592 - amending article three of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. Please vote. [[14:33:28]] For 368 The law is passed. Thank you. Adopted as the law of the project. Please, Karmazin with a motive. Dear colleagues, there will be a 15 - minute meeting of the Conciliation Council at 15 hours with the participation of the Prime Minister. Please be the leaders of factions and MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u218	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I was making an offer to write "air Force" because "air Force" is nothing. It's supposed to be military air force. Now, contrary to the Rules as a whole without taking into account any suggestions, you exclude the possibility of improving the law, Vladimir Mihajlovich. I call your attention to the inadmissibility of breaking the Rules for which you saved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-03-m0.u219	Roger that. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. Thank you.
