ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:34]] Registered -418 A total of 418 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, our colleagues, Teeth of Mikhail Vasilovich and Kaputzin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Let us welcome them and wish them good health and success in their practical activities. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, applications and messages. I'm asking the factions to file a statement, and I'm going to make an announcement about what's coming. And at the same time, I want to say that today, honourable colleagues, the Annunciation, so we should be very good at meeting the plenary. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: To the President of Ukraine, Vladimir YAWORIY, on the illegal actions taken by the leadership of the Zacarpathian District Administration, the law enforcement authorities, the separate MPs of the Mukatov City Council from the SDPU, which are involved in illegal surveillance, telephone interrogations, beatings, mass layoffs, arrests of the people of the city of Mukachev in order to intimidate them and force them to choose the head of the city of the President's Administration. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:27]] For-138 Request not supported. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the establishment of the State coat of arms over the State flag at the top of the Supreme Council of Ukraine instead of one of the symbols of the non-existent State of the Soviet Union. While we were at the head, and we took it off, he asked me to take it off. Mary MARKUS to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the appeal of Orthodox Christians in the Tachiansky and Rakhiv regions of the Zakarpatsky region on the alternative registration of citizens and the failure to implement the Law on the National Register of Individuals - Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Banking Chamber of Ukraine, on the stateless treatment of the property of the Uzin Bilocerkow airport complex in the Kyiv region. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non-payment of salaries to the workers of the “Switek” mine in Kirovsk and the situation on this mine. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to respond to the parliamentary request of February 12, 2004 concerning the granting of permission for the transfer to the company of the “Trade Exhibition Complex” in the lease of the course. Alexander GODIMI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval by the Government of the Ukrainian Energy Strategy by 2030 and the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the bill “On Ukraine’s National Energy Programme by 2020”. Mr. Nestor Šufric to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukrainian President's Order of 7 April 2004 “To honor the memory of the Gehtman of Ukraine, Paul Krapadsky”. Stanislawa NICOLAENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on electricity tariffs for water supplies to rural areas in the Herson region. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on statutory funds and nominal value of open stock companies. Mr. Vladimir SANDRI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 19 April 2002 on the allocation of funds to the auxiliary boarding school of the village of Berezdov in the region of the Hmelnitsk Region. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the right to church building by the religious community of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of St. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to eliminate the effects of floods in 1998 and 2001 in the village of Krasna Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Mr. Mikhail VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for disrespect for the national deputy of Ukraine and for the cynical response of the First Deputy Minister of Transport of Ukraine to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine from January 9, 2004 to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Director-General of the Georgi Kirpa District. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper financing of 30km of Hmelniy nuclear power station facilities. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of budgetary resources for the construction of the Lower Exchange gas pipeline, Tekuča, Archers of the Kosovo region of Ivano-Frankov. Jury PAVLENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for ignoring the advice of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the resolution of the conflict at the Šostka High School. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of the medium-pressure gas pipeline of the Lower Exchange, the Archers of the Kosovo region of Ivano-Frankiv. MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the creation of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service of Ukraine. John the Rabbit to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conflict situation surrounding the restructuring of the Black Sea State Security Inspectorate. Stanislawa NICOLAENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures in connection with the natural disaster in southern Ukraine, the April freeze. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal burning and hot water supply of apartments in the village of Lake Zitomir district. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of the mining villages of Sofia Condraativka, Olkhovka, Bukovnica of the city of Jenakiyev. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the insufficient funding of the Woline Region Savings Institutions for the compensation payments of the cash savings placed in the former USSR Savings Facility. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the sale of property from the former council of the “Lisochrinietski” Hmeljna District, which has been included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation by the Ukrainian Law of 7 July 1999. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the sources of funding and the number of public funds lost for the implementation of the so-called constitutional reform forum at the National Palace of Ukraine on 2 April 2004. Stepan BULBI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures taken by the Government and the Ministry of Defence in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Mr. Vladimir LEVCUNA and Mr. Vladimir MAZURENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the settlement of the financial security issue of the Ukrainian military peacekeeping continent in the Republic of Sierra Leone. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper procedure for the identification and approval of socio-cultural objects financed by the expenditure of the 2004 State Budget on capital construction. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the protection of consumer rights in the control of natural gas quality. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the use of the Odessa-Broda pipeline. [[MILK, RED, CHECK, AND OTHERS. Total 5 deputies]] Anatolya RACHAN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for helping to pay off the debt owed to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence for its work. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social protection of military and law enforcement personnel. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to halt violations by the Government of Ukraine of the constitutional rights of citizens to pension security, the repeal of paragraph 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance of Ukraine of 20 November 2003 on measures to improve the pension security of citizens and the improper execution of the request from the said greetings. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation and neglect of Ukrainian legislation on citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander HUDIMI and Alexander TRETIKOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the clarification of the coming of the 2004 State Budget for the rent for oil transport on the Odessa-Broda pipeline. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the removal by the Czernigian City Council of legal benefits of individual categories of citizens. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Tobacco about the preservation of the artist Grigori Sinica's museum and its status as a single museum. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitr Tobacco, for the renewal of the broadcast of the third Ukrainian Radio programme. Mr Mikli MARTINENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr Andrey Klav, on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 4 February 2004 on measures to improve the efficiency of the use of oil pipelines. JURY OF THE ORBTION to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine for violating the judges of the Dalia district of Kiev of the Civil Procedure Code and the Property Act of Ukraine. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Stahanov City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Luhansk region in criminal investigations and in cases of physical violence by members of the security forces of the city of Stahanova. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal sale of property of the Open Shareholder Society “Granat” of Simferopol. Victor YUSCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the privatization of the Kremenchuck TEC and the steps taken by the prosecutor for violations. Gregory OMELČENA to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the criminalization of doctors at Kyiv City Hospital No. 17, whose official negligence led to the death of a child and the invocation of the responsibility of prosecutors who did not respond properly to the parents ’ claim of the child’s death. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the theft of state property at Uzin Airport and for the prosecution of those responsible. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the threat of national security as a result of illegal activities by officials of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office, the Mikolai District Public Administration, the undermining of the authority of the State as a result of the restrictions on the economic activity of the South Communion Exchange and the limited liability of BlackBudget Service and Krukgasservis, the violation of their rights to exercise free enterprise activities and the suspension of the study on the conduct of the auction on the exclusion of the First-Majski Gas filling station, the attempt to determine the results of the auction with the illegal transfer of this entity. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the attack on a limited-liability printing society, Editorial of the newspaper “Young Bookwright” in the city of Chernów. Stanislava GURENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of the resident of Dnipropetrovska by members of the Dnipropetrov City Police Department. The U.S. Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Co-ordination Committee to Combat Corruption and Organized Crime at the President of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation and abuse of the service position of the Head of the Odessa District Administration of the Greenewetsk Region in the allocation of the budget for the acquisition of housing in Odessa to persons who do not exercise the right to obtain employment, the abuse of the service position in the construction of their own palace of 25 million dollars, and the failure to settle with the specialized auto-business No.15 on behalf of the performance of their work, the unlawful retention of the head of this firm, reinstated as a judge. Mr. Yulia TIMOSHENKO and Mr. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, for questioning the telephone conversations of Ukrainian national deputies. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, regarding the renewal of former Lieutenant of the Tax Police Yuri Filonenko. PAUL MUSICANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Novosanjar district of Poltava in the detection of resonant crimes and offences. Stepan BULBY to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the establishment of real conditions for the loss of life in the city of Globin Poltaw district of Sergey Harchenk and for the prosecution of those responsible. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the legal rights and interests of employees of the former collective agricultural enterprise named Suvorova Mikolaiiv district of Odessa. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the offshore business activity of Victor Medvedchuk, who saw signs of serious criminal offences. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights and interests of owners of property certificates in the process of reforming the private enterprise “Ustyvice” in the Poltavian region. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the occasion of the imposition of the blame and compensation for the moral and material damage caused by the road accident that resulted in the death of Suma. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office by the procurator of the Rocinn district of the Kyiv region during the investigation and closure of the criminal case, despite the decision of the district court to refer the case for investigation. GREGORY TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, on the establishment of a currency accounting situation for one of the US$ 100,000 banks used for their own purposes by the former Attorney General of Ukraine, Svetoslav Piscot and his wife, and on the legal assessment of their operation. Victor YUSCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of law enforcement officials and prosecutors of the Kyrovograd District. Ms Oleg PETROVA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the compliance of the current Ukrainian legislation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs directive of 19 November 2001, No. 7565 and the order of the Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of 10 July 2003 No. 226. Romana ZVARIČA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the request of the Ivano-Frankov District Council for the preservation of the structure of local and district courts in the cities of Kaluchi, Cologne. TO THE Ministry of Transport of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of the road in the region of the Darnicki Wagon Repair Plant of the Dniprovi district of Kiev. MICHELLA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to provide an official explanation of the principles of the introduction of a new registration system in Ukraine. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the violation by the Rector of the Donetsk National Technical University of Trade Union Rights. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the return from the Iraqi prison of Ukrainian sailors Mikli Mazurenko and John Soshchenk. Jurya KOSTENKA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the operation of the Chupakhiv sugar plant in the district of Suma. Valentina Seminyuk to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the improper performance of official duties as deputy to the head of the Wallin district office of justice. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on violations of the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that Caused Loss of Work. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of constitutional rights to the community of the former city hospital No. 12 of Odessa for the work and health of citizens. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the problems of medical supplies to the Great Alexandrian District Hospital in the Hersson region. Andrew SCHOOL to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the reasons for the termination of the tender for the purchase of transport signs for 2004. Anatholic to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the misconduct of employees of the Office of Combating Organized Crime and the Department of Justice in the Dnipropetrov region. Michael LOBODI to the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the rightfulness of land tax collection from the sanatoriums of the closed stock company Truscavetzkurt. MICHELLA to the Head of the State Committee on Construction, Architecture, and Housing Policy of Ukraine regarding the control of the construction of a large apartment building in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities of Ukraine for the purpose of allocating funds for the renovation of residential and utility facilities in the region of Rožnetiv. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime in connection with the situation in the residential and communal sphere of the city of Kirovgrad, caused by officials of Kirovgrad Mesquikonka. Mr. Vladimir SANDRI to the Head of Hmelnicka District State Administration for the financing of the reconstruction of the boiler school of the secondary boarding school of the village of Berezdov Slavutski district. Mr Paul KLUČANA to the Head of the Poltava Regional Public Administration on the violation of the rights of residents of the village of Vilnice Poltavska District of the Chutov District State Administration and the head of the farm “Voltnicke”. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Head of the Mikolai District State Administration regarding the violation of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection” in addressing the issue of the establishment of a disabled phone and a group of the Great Homeland War, the participant of the fighting activities of Gregory Nechatila. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the facts of a massive violation of human rights in the city of Dniprovinsk Dnipropetrovsk. Anatholic of the Dnipropetrovsk Region, Prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovsk Region, Head of State Tax Administration in the Dnipropetrovsk Region, Director of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk Region on the misconduct of employees of the Department of Combating Organized Crime and Justice in the Dnipropetrovsk Region. Group of National Deputies (TARAN), HMARA, ČUBAROV) to the Director-General of the Ecos Child Enterprise of the Kyivmishkbud Holding Company for the use of elevator equipment for the purpose of profit in newly built residential buildings accepted for maintenance by Ecos. Sergia Doroguntsova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the commencement of an agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the establishment and functioning of the branches of the Russian Federation's higher educational institutions in Ukraine and the branches of Ukraine's higher educational institutions in the territory of the Russian Federation. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council by the Government of Ukraine to include in the budget programme "For the Conservation of Historical and Cultural Heritage" the funds for the construction of the National Museum "Pole Berestecko Battle" in the province of Ravenna. [[KRAVCHUK, BLACK, BROAD, AND OTHERS]] But ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the Tagagnana and the improper investigation into the criminal case of the murder of juvenile Subotin. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the construction of the Latex factory "Perfect" in Novoyavorysk, Lviv region. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Head of the DPA on the Legality of Reparation of VAT to DrewStart, Kamyanka-Buzka District of Lviv Region. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations by officials of the Bahchisarai law enforcement authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crime of Article 13 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Criminal Procedures Legislation of Ukraine, on the investigation of a criminal case under the charge of Panchenk. Andrija POLITA to head the city of Kyrovgrad for the cost of building a residential building for young families in Kirovograd. Anatolia PALIGARY to Vice-Prime Minister Klav on the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the Olchowka mine, the city of Jenakiyev Donetské region. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of the supply of drinking water to the village of Olhowaka, the city of Jenakivé. All requests received have been made. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the factions and groups. We spent almost half an hour asking questions that came in writing, perhaps making arrangements not to take breaks. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine has a word. Prepare Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u2	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine considers it necessary to focus Parliament's attention on the conclusion of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the assessment of the actions of the so-called open-ended parliamentary union, with the support of the national producer "Economic Ukraine". [[united]] In particular, it is established by the Committee that the materials on the basis of which an announcement was made at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on 3 October 2003 on the creation of "Economic Ukraine". The device was not processed and the information for the announcements was not prepared. Under the official responsibility of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, no civil or charitable organization or other public associations with the name of the open-ended parliamentary association "Economic Ukraine" have been registered by the Ministry. Thus, the so - called unification, recognized as illegal, and its actions are qualified as violating the requirements of the Ukrainian Supreme Council and the Law on the Unity of Citizens, which was announced yesterday at the morning session of the Parliament by Mr. Lithuania. The parliamentary faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine has highlighted the last paragraph of the Committee's conclusions. [[united]] All documents sent out have no legal power, and the use of the Supreme Council props in these documents is illegal. Given the scale of the "Economic Ukraine" distribution shares that are policy-makers, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine considers it necessary to bring the content of the findings of the Regulatory Committee to the councils of all levels. [[united]] Please give an appropriate protocol order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as a protocol order for the publication of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine to publish the above-mentioned conclusion. The need for these actions is due to the enormous moral damage caused by the actions of the so - called “Economic Ukraine ” to Ukraine’s only legislative body. Under the name of the Supreme Council, referring directly to Parliament's leadership, the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Lithuania, the faction leaders and a large group of national deputies, the parliamentary associations of "Economic Ukraine" have openly discredited Parliament as a whole. Without a doubt, we have faced the cynical attempt of the political forces to use dirty technologies to achieve political dividends. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party is convinced that it is not the right for the Supreme Council to leave this effort out of the public eye. [[United]] The findings of the Regulatory Committee contain clear and convincing assessments of this incident, and bringing this information to all parts of the representative government of Ukraine and to the general public today are not simply possible, but absolutely necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u3	Yes, Gregory Dashutin from the faction of the Industrialists, entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine", to prepare Taras Stackow from "Our Ukraine." Is that Gregory Dashutin? Please, I announced. Get ready for Stacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u4	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Our faction believes it is necessary to draw the attention of the authorities and social organizations to the most pressing social problem today. Today, according to official data, nearly 10 percent of the working population in Ukraine are unemployed. However, the real state of affairs in the labour market is even more complex and dangerous, and it tends to get worse. This room has repeatedly heard that there are between 5 and 7 million of our compatriots in labour migration outside the country. Their normal statistics are not recorded by these unemployed. However, the introduction of 10 countries to the European Union on May 1st of this year is the introduction of a new relationship and the abolition of these visas, and the presence of visas now before entry into one or another countries will be automatically dangerous for those jobs that have been created today. So the unemployment that is today will increase even more. The second problem today is the declared military reform, which is accompanied by a huge reduction in personnel. They're also unemployed tomorrow. We're adding the number of graduates that are now on the job market every year, and we know that we have 30 percent of students today in higher education institutions than in Soviet times. This is also a problem that has a cumulative impact on unemployment in the country. In connection with this priority task, all authorities must create new jobs. The faction believes that it is appropriate to immediately collect statistics on the availability of jobs in all areas and in cities, villages and villages respectively, with jobs, I emphasize: jobs, should be considered by those where people become and receive wages, and wages are not less than the minimum wage defined in the state. Data on the number of jobs should be made basic for assessing the activities of the district, state administrations of all the executive authorities in the places. This activity can be considered satisfactory only if the number of jobs in the territory is increasing, especially in the countryside. In view of the current situation of the Cabinet of Ministers, we need to review the programme that today is largely unsatisfactory for 2001-2004 and develop a new programme that was provided with financial origin and will provide 3 million jobs for the next 5 years. This is an urgent situation, and the faction of "Trug Ukraine" on this today insists and is ready to embark on a new programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u5	Tara Steckov from the faction "Our Ukraine", to prepare Melniczuk from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Before I read out the statement by the faction "Our Ukraine," I would like to welcome the Lithuanian people with a wise and balanced decision that the Lithuanian Parliament made yesterday after sending their president to resign for violating the Constitution and oath. God would give such wisdom and balance in the Ukrainian Parliament if we faced similar situations. A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council. Eight years ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed an education law that defined basic social standards and guarantees for Ukrainian teachers. The "Our Ukraine" faction has yet to say that to date the executive authorities have failed to comply with Article 57 of this law, according to which the teacher's average salary is to be equal to the average wage in industry. Moreover, the government stubbornly refuses to accept the 1997 and 2000 debt owed to schoolchildren after paying benefits for years of service, health care, and conscientious work to domestic government debt, and to pay off that debt. Teachers who faithfully and conscientiously carry out their duties by raising and teaching the future of our people are deprived of basic social security, forced to forge on compatible jobs, or freed themselves in search of more income. The faction "Our Ukraine" states that the situation of budgetary financing for education, including the 57th article, could turn into a serious social conflict. Already in some regions of Ukraine, there is a critical situation with the current funding of paid education. According to the court's ruling, there is a compulsory collection of funds from treasury accounts under the 57th article, for which the government has not foreseen a single penny in the 2004 budget. There is a real threat of a complete end to the salaries of teachers. We demand recognition of the sovereign internal debt owed under article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, the restructuring of this debt for five years, and its servicing to start now and to carry out equal parts, taking into account the inflation index. In addition, the real accounting of all levels of budget income will allow for a 25 - percent increase in wages not only for educators but also for doctors, scientists, and cultural workers. Members of the faction "Our Ukraine" did not once submit bills to the Supreme Council that would solve the state's obligation to education students, as provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. Yet, these initiatives have come against the full disregard of the government and the parliamentary majority. We call for a first-line review and approval of Ukraine's draft laws on the urgent arrangements for the allocation of hidden income from Ukraine's 2004 State Budget and the draft Act on the order of payment of arrears under article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. The 10 billion dollars hidden by the government in the budget should be returned to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u7	Mikhailo Melniczuk from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u8	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On February 20th of this year, a statement was made by the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council in connection with the situation involved in preparing and carrying out a complex of spring-field works. We emphasized that the village lacked fuel-oil materials, technology, mineral fertilizers, plant protection products that had not become loans. loans to the farmers have become inaccessible and so on. We realize that after that the government would have to take steps to correct the situation in the country today. But today it must be noted that more than 10 million hectares of land in Ukraine is not being processed. The President's recognition after our statement, which was announced in Parliament, that in these years only 3 percent of agricultural production has increased. It's already the signal that says that in Ukraine it's not all right that we're on the verge of a new food crisis. No one today can put order in the businesses that should provide fertilizers for farmers to work on the land. What do we have? How is it that the factory manager, who counted two months, called three months back the money for the fertilizer company, and was sent so far away that it was almost outside of Ukraine. Who is in Ukraine today, who is in charge? In our opinion, no one. Because the situation today cannot even deal with the Cabinet of Ministers, which is in Ukraine. In our view, we need to immediately return a bill that we haven't considered in this room about the introduction of export duties on fertilizers, and eventually the business leaders should know that they live in Ukraine, that they work here, that they should work for this people. Today, from Hersonskin, Santa Claus, Crimea is reported to have died 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of winter, which will be venerable? Once again, the crisis is clearly a food crisis, and the authorities are not taking anything at all. They were concerned with other matters. We have a message from Iraq that is also shameful when our people die. Today, under the walls of the Supreme Council, the croquets, the niggers, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u9	Vadim Gur from the People’s Authority’s Deputy Group, prepare Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u10	Vadim Gurov "The People's Landing" Krivbass. Dear colleagues! Once again, I want to draw your attention to the problem not only of the current but also of the burning nature of the underground mining that has emerged over the centuries in the production of iron ore in Krivbass, which is becoming more and more of a memory of themselves. This is the last extraordinary event: on Frolenka Street in the northern part of the central district of Krivogo Roga, there has been a failure of land near residential homes, which has greatly aroused and intimidated the inhabitants, especially since it has happened several times since 1961, and there have been human casualties, and the reason is that in the bras of the Krivorozhya Iron Basin, you will result in the extraction of ore in an underground manner of approximately 30 million people. The cubic meters are empty. Think about it: 30 million. The void. At the same time, half the city line is over 20,000. hectares are located in this area, in the emergency room. For city authorities, scientists and units in the city, the emergency situation in Krivo Roga is not news. They shall take appropriate measures. But in my view, these efforts are not enough and the problem needs to be addressed at the State level. Of course, a competent scientific assessment of the situation was needed, which could be provided by an inter-ministerial government commission, which needed to be established as quickly as possible. A special monitoring, hydrogeological status, analysis and forecasting of potential risks to land failures and changes is required. Most importantly, there is a need for continuous and competent control of the situation by the central authorities of the State. With this high rostrum, I support the city's approach on this issue and ask that I not withdraw from it, but rather that I take it seriously and take urgent action. We all at the legislative level have no right to tolerate a technological catastrophe in Krivbas. Even more so, she is inevitable if she does not take the necessary measures. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the situation outlined when we consider the draft law on the specialities of the privatisation of the State company Ukrprom. As you know, on first reading, we adopted the draft Law of the People's MP, Movcan, which provides for the privatization of the Ukruprom enterprises by separate shares. That can't be allowed in any way. In this case, it is not difficult to predict that such privatization will buy “lazy pieces”. We must remember day and night that Krivbass is a reliable foundation of our country's economy and must be treated with care and care. And, after all, my deep conviction is that before the adoption of the Code
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u11	Sergey Matvienkov of the faction of Ukraine. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u12	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, today I want to draw your attention once again to the problem of the Azov Sea. In this room, the problems of this unique type of water system have already been reported on several occasions: submersibles, landslides, heavy pollution of marine water-borne bacteria, which result in extremely poor, epidemiological conditions in the region and much more. But today I want to raise the problem of conservation of the biological resources of the Azov Sea. In the spring and the time of the road, both industrial and poaching fish will begin. Meanwhile, year after year, the world’s most fishy sea is scarce today. In the past, fabulous ostrich catches: kalcana, sudaka. In Berdjansk, a bull-fowl was erected. Skeptics argue that if this goes on, such funeral honors will have to be given even to a seal. The colossal damage to fish resources is caused by poachers who have literally broken the sea into squares and have unregulated barbaric fishing. However, he is also subjected to laxity, and at times he is simply a nuisance of government officials, in fact, putting the sea into the management of unprincipled businesses. The fish-fishing company shall be registered without taking into account the logistic base available. Currently, almost 30 fishing licences have been issued from Berdjanska to Mariupol to non-disclosure companies, which have one, two semi-degradable bulkheads on their balance. Of course, the restoration of fish resources, the development of few by such firms, and the speech cannot be done. Their goal is to tear and run. At the same time, serious fisheries that want and are able not only to fish but also to carry out a number of activities aimed at preserving the environment, restoring fish resources for often experiencing uncertain difficulties in obtaining licences and dealing with a number of issues. I have repeatedly applied to the Ukrainian Department of State Fisheries for the revision of issued licences, namely the modification of the criteria for the issue of these licences. In response, unfortunately, only receipts are received. That is why I would like to hear the answer to the question today. So when are we going to deal with this? When are we going to stop handing out licenses thoughtlessly to whom? When we stop losing ourselves, shall we say, in the past, the world's rich sea fish? Or even in the case of officials, the incentives that today force them to issue licenses to such firms are higher than the public interest, so let us put order in the place of these officials. Therefore, please, Vladimir Mihajlovich, this is my statement to consider an official MP request so that we can clearly determine when, in the end, the time will come when the state apparatus will take charge of order on the Azov Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u13	Oleg Zarubinsky of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, to prepare Igor Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u14	Honorary Presidium, honourable national MPs, we all understand that the development of new sources of energy for Ukraine is not just a means of ensuring energy independence for additional revenues to the State budget, but also an opportunity to provide additional jobs. In addition, the discovery of new Hmelnicka and Ravenna AES blocks. The closure of the Blackwater AES power grids. However, it is disturbing how this construction is being completed and how it is being prepared for such projects. The NDP’s fraction comes up with letters from Hmelničina and Plainsland expressing concern about environmental risks, as well as about the construction of social facilities in the 30 - mile [30 km] nuclear power stations. Although at the legal level, it seems normal to do so, since the Cabinet's Regulation on Approval of Technical and Economic Calculations for the Completion of Energy Cloud No. 2 of the Hmělní AES provides for funding, I quote, the construction of social objects in the 30km area. In less than six months, the power grid should be running, but the money, which is more than 40 million dollars for social objects, is almost unsettled. This means that, in fact, construction in this area of schools, cultural buildings, transformational substations, clean - up facilities, gasification of populated areas, and repairs of streets has been halted today. Given this faction, the NDP claims. First. We have to give up the old tradition of implementing serious projects under a holiday date. Experience shows that the hastyness of the work is proportional to its quality. In history, we have seen this a number of times. Now we're not building a farm or a kiosk -- they're nuclear power grids with over 300,000 people living next to them. It is not a secret that AES in Ukraine has experienced much more trivial situations than in Germany or Japan, for example. Perhaps this is because the Japanese AES were built, not before the emperor was born, but according to a graph of environmental risks. It is not a secret, too, that by the end of a solemn discovery, holes will usually begin to weave by the end of the anniversary. And it's good if only the socialist, not the reactor itself. Perhaps it is enough to push away from the paradigm of social finance by the residual method of government policy. We've been here a long time, I hope, not a totalitarian country, and we need to have a human being, not a GDP level. Thus, the faction requires that the level of financing of the social sector in industrial construction be equal to the level of investment in production. Please consider my statement a parliamentary request from the faction of the People's Democratic Party to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u15	Igor Alexeyev from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, Igor Alexeyev, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Our faction was very surprised that none of the factions had paid attention to the tragic events that had taken place in the Republic of Iraq in recent days. Statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council on events in the Republic of Iraq. The events of the last days in the Republic of Iraq indicate that a real liberation war is waged against the invaders. In our view, it is natural for a people on whose land foreigners have come for the purpose of establishing a foreign order to defend and fight. Unfortunately, our Ukrainian military forces have also joined the occupying forces, which under pressure from the U.S. President Kuchma, at the suggestion of the U.S. President of Ukraine, were sent to form the so-called peacekeeping contingent. The day has come when the national MPs, the presidential majority and the "Our Ukraine" bloc, who supported the United States and President Kuchma and sent our boys to a distant country to protect not Ukrainian but American national interests, should be responsible to the people of Ukraine. On April 6, 2004, a sad countdown began. Our fellow countryman, Ruslan Androszczuk, was killed in combat near the city of Al-Qut, and five soldiers were wounded. In addition, 12 Italian troops were injured in the fight against Iraqis near the city of Nasirier in the same days. On April 5, 2004, in Singapore, which also took part in an adventure organized by the United States in Iraq, he fully withdrew his military unit from its territory. As indicated by the government of Singapore, such actions have been taken in response to Spain’s decision to withdraw its troops from Iraq after the attacks in Madrid, Spain’s capital. In addition, last week a number of terrorist acts took place in Uzbekistan, resulting in the deaths of peaceful people. These events are linked to the support of the Government of Uzbekistan for United States policies in Afghanistan and Iraq. In this way, Ukraine can also face the threat of terrorist acts of retaliation. We ask President Kuchma, who in the agreement of the United States has put a great deal of pressure on the MP Corps when a positive decision has been taken by Parliament on the deployment of the Ukrainian-military contingent to Iraq. How many dead and mutilated Ukrainian military personnel are needed by the constitutional guarantor. To get our boys home. What other arguments do we need? The Communist faction strongly requires the Supreme Council to consider urgently the draft of the law on the withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from the territory of the Republic. And to make decisions that really fit the national interests of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u17	Julia Timoshenko from the Julia Timoshenko Faction. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that today, for all believers, there is a great feast. It is the day when the world heard the sacred message that God’s Son may be born in the world, who will take over all the sins of mankind with his life and death. And these are, in fact, the moral principles of our existence, this is the celebration of all believers. And I want to tell you that politicians, like any other people, in their lives, get a lot of sins. But politicians can do more than all humans commit such sins. And in the life of politicians there comes a time of truth when they can act in one way or another, one of their decisions is to virtually get rid of all their perennial sins. Now a rather tragic event is unfolding in Parliament and in Ukraine's society. Under some unknown circumstances, there are only two people: the acting president and his administrator are trying to use all of us, you, all of us present in this room, to preserve their authority after 2004. These are changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. And today the fate of Ukraine, the fate of these two people, and no more, depends on whether the moment of truth comes for every national MP, whether he understands it or not, which is the last limit that is simply impossible to cross. And that's why I'd like to go to all the deputies at this big holiday. You've got a pretty nasty thing going on in front of you. Yesterday’s passed law on proportional elections to local self - government, which virtually destroys the very essence of local self - government. This is a prologue, preparing for changes to the Constitution. If there is an authority and respectable person in the community, why should it take a party roof to win and become a leader in the community? A lot of just inappropriate things. And I want to tell you that your decision is the decision of Ukraine's future. Do not vote for these changes if they are forced to vote tomorrow! And the last. There is a beautiful legend that in addition to 10 Bible commandments, there are two more. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Basil Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u20	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Odščina. Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, speaking at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine last December on behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, I asked the government about the lack of a mechanism for financing the construction of gas pipelines, leading to rural settlements, which were to be built in 2003 on the basis of payments made by the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the debt of past years for payments to the National Budget of Ukraine. The said works and their funding were provided for under article 72-3 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. And the Cabinet of Ministers for the implementation of the State Budget Act was passed by Decree No. 1826 of November 26, 2003. Regrettably, neither the status of the State Budget Act nor the position of the government’s decision are fulfilled. The work was neither funded nor carried out. As an example, in the Odessa region alone, 13 objects had been constructed for more than 5.5 million dollars, of which 144 electoral districts, comprising 7 forestless areas, and where gasification was of extreme socio-economic and political significance, were to be introduced by pipelines of 16.3 km long. On March 16, this year, on Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I drew the Government's attention to the urgent need to address the following issues. First. Funding, construction of gas pipelines, transportation to rural areas, provided for by a decree of 26.11.2003 of the Cabinet of Ministers. Already in the current year. The other one. Construction of new objects at the expense of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, proposals submitted for 2004 to the Government and the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine and the Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's been a while. It ended the first quarter of this year. We ask the government to inform the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party how this is resolved is socially relevant for the peasants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we're done speaking from the factions, please. The National Academy of Sciences. Calm down. Your last name isn't "Our Ukraine," as far as I'm concerned, your last name is Stay. Sit down, please. Calm down. The National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine has released a new version of the laser disk "Ukrainian Dictionary". Taking into account our interest in the development and functioning of the Ukrainian language, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine has decided to hand over a thousand copies of this CD for the purposes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, directly the national deputies of Ukraine. On this occasion, the Vice-President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine is Mr. Ivan Fedorovich Kuras, National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u22	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. In 1999, a program called "The Dictionary of Ukraine" was launched. The President's decrees were adopted, the government's decrees were adopted, and the work has continued ever since. There are 34 names of dictionaries of a universal nature of the subject, including Russian-Ukrainian, Ukrainian-Russian and so on. These dictionaries are published on laser disks and on paper media. For comparison. If you print one of these discs on paper, it's going to be 70 volumes, one thousand pages each. I have the honour to hand over one thousand copies free of charge to all the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Apparatus, and in the past year we have handed over to all the higher education institutions ministries, departments, public organizations, parties that addressed us 30,000 such copies. And one more thing is very important. This work will continue and we are proposing that the relevant committees consider a very simple question so that every computer produced in or sold in Ukraine will be added to the corresponding mechanized translation system from the dictionary base not only in English but also in Ukrainian. I think that would be a good thing. And I want your permission to hand over to the Supreme Council the samples of these dictionaries, and everyone in the apparatus can get the right amount for their work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u23	Go on with your motives and assume that you've come to the rostrum, and that's not what you're doing. Yes, dear colleagues, instead of 45 minutes, we have spent more hours in accordance with article 4.2.3. paragraph 6 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reporting on the creation of a "Citizen Initiative" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, consisting of 26 national deputies. A list of the principles of this association is added. They did not choose their head, hold their congregations, and write. Dear colleagues! I've made an announcement in accordance with the Rules, if you're interested, please, we'll give you these documents, see. Let's move on to Chernewicki, please. For reasons of what?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u24	It's the motive for what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u25	Microphone, please plug in Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Thank you for giving me your word. The distinguished people's deputies at the Conciliation Council have decided on the question of voting on the decision to set up a commission of inquiry, which includes the former Deputy Attorney-General Vernidubov, General Samofalov and other respected people. I ask you to give me your word, because this is not an issue on the agenda, but it has simply killed the investigators themselves and those who are involved today. I ask you to vote or how to proceed, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to give me the floor and to vote on the establishment of only an investigative commission. As she decides, so it will be. And basically, that's where the famous people come from, which is also from Communist comrades Grac and others. Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich, give me the floor and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u27	Igor Ostasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u28	Igor Ostrash, "Our Ukraine", is indeed disturbing today the developments in Iraq. And I would like to say that when we voted in this room, we made it a condition when we sent our contingent to Iraq that our contingent would not participate in combat. And today, there are virtually serious fighting that can turn into civil war. So, in our opinion, today we need to invite here the Minister of Defense of Ukraine, Mr. Eugene Marchuk, who would really tell us what the situation is in Iraq right now, whether there is a real threat to our military personnel. And by the way, today is the day-to-day issue of army reform, and I think it could be combined as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I had a conversation with the Ukrainian Defence Minister this morning, and he informed us that all our soldiers were now in the main location, the issues were issues, moments and they were solved. It's if we make the decision. I'll just keep you posted. Dear colleagues, one more moment. Calm down, please. Dear colleagues, I have such a request to you and I ask you to listen. Who is on the Conciliation Council, he knows that until the question posed by Leonid Chernewsky is considered, it is impossible to work. So I'm asking you, and now I'm going to propose: let's vote and you're going to vote by putting this issue in the agenda. And if we turn it on, then we can make a decision so that we can continue to work quietly. Do you support me in this? I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft "On the establishment of a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of the current legislation during the investigation by the Chief Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev on the criminal case of road transport on 2 November 2003, with the participation of the National Deputy of the Republic of Montenegro in the agenda. [[11:06:43]] For 230 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council Decision as the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the establishment of the Ukrainian High Council of Inquiry Provisional Commission of the Supreme Council on the issue of compliance with the requirements of current legislation in the course of the investigation by the Chief Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev on the Criminal Case of Road Traffic on 2 November 2003 with the participation of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Chernevski. Registration number 5293. Please vote. [[11:07:29]] For 246 Decision taken. Everything? Let's go to the ratification question section. From the Assadchev procedure, please. Calm down, well, I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u30	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am again addressing you with a matter of procedure. And I'd like you to turn to the Regulatory Committee if you can't determine for yourself. The point is that after the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry, we can't include 226 votes in the agenda, because it's a direct norm of the Constitution that allows it to be formed by one third. And this direct norm of the Constitution cannot be broken by the rule of law. May the Rules Committee then edit the Rules in accordance with the rules of the Constitution. But in the future, a temporary commission of inquiry is to be created by one third of the national deputies, and this standard cannot be invalidated as you do all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, you are well aware that the changes that have been made have been made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which says that 226 people are needed. I agree with you that this goes against the Constitution. Gmira, Melnik. We're still working. Melniczuk. Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u32	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we will now consider ratification. But I have very serious doubts that some ratification issues should be considered at a time when Ukraine was actually involved in the war. When our boys are killed in Iraq today, not Iraqis are killed, they are killed by President Kuchma and by the majority who voted in favour of this criminal decision. And our Ukraine, most of our Ukraine. And the mothers of those children who have died will not be comforted to have died for their family. They've lost interest in foreign countries. There is no more important question here today. And, Vladimir Mihajlovich, please do not refer to procedural points. The issue must now be addressed. Marchuk, on the rostrum! He lied here that there are weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Let him tell you where it is. Let him answer for the crime
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u33	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u34	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. No emotion, no nothing. Even in February, we made a statement. Today the situation is very difficult in agriculture. I ask you, Bill 5095 -- on introducing an expert tax on fertilizer -- to give an immediate hearing in the hall today, to vote. Because the situation is complicated in the countryside. Without fertilizer, that's what a person without oxygen is. You can't keep working like this. I ask you very much to include in the agenda the day's debate and the vote, and on the basis of the bill 5095 as a whole. Please put my proposal to the vote. And I'm expecting most of the agrarian support from the entire village hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, as for the final offer, let's go this way. I'll ask you now, let the agrarian policy committee prepare this document, give it to him. We'll figure it out during the break. If necessary, we will make the right decision. I ask the secretariat to prepare and submit this document with the relevant conclusions and conclusions of the Scientific and Legal Office. The draft Law on the Ratification of a Protocol on the Approval of the Order of Organizing and Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in the Areas of States Parties to Partnership and Independent States is being announced for consideration. Reporter of the First Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Yuri Volodymyrovich Zemlinski. Such a procedure is proposed from the minute for the report and accordingly to the question. And the same thing as a co-rapporteur for three minutes is a profile committee proposal. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, the co-report will be by Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. To carry out the mandate of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian Security Service has developed and agreed with the government authorities concerned a draft law on the ratification of the protocol on the establishment of the order of organization and joint anti-terrorist measures in the territory of the SND States, which was submitted by the President of Ukraine on 16 July 2003 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On February 18, this year, the project was discussed at a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Including the National Deputy of Ukraine Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. The bill was decided to send the draft law for second reading. In view of what, after careful consideration of the Karmazin project proposed by Ukraine’s national deputy, the Ukrainian Security Service thanks Yuri Anatoliyevich for his active work on our project and also considers it possible to provide such an explanation. In the Karmazin project, military personnel and others who are part of Ukraine's special anti-terrorist formations are in any case under Ukraine's jurisdiction. This duplicates the position of the developer, paragraph 2 of paragraph 5. 3 Regulations on the organization and joint anti-terrorist measures in the territories of the States participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States, according to which, in the course of offences, participants in joint anti-terrorist measures by the Ukrainian side are required to comply with Ukraine's legislation. The other one. In Carmazin, special means and materials cannot be kept or in any form alienated from the party that asks. The Ukrainian Security Service proposes that this paragraph be rejected because the bill’s articles appear to be unnecessary because they duplicate the standards of paragraph 4.3. In addition, it should be noted that paragraph 4.2 states that special means and materials for the provision of special anti-terrorist formation of the party they are asking should be exported after a joint anti-terrorist action has been completed from the requesting party’s territory. If special circumstances make it impossible to export special means and materials, the party will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u37	Yuri Volodymyrovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is that we had our first reading, and there were questions before that. Now we go after the second reading, there's only an explanation for those amendments that aren't taken into account, why they're offered not to take these amendments into account. And we just have to vote on the amendments. Calm down, I'm telling you, it's a second reading. Second reading, whether you understand it or not. Please sit down, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Have a seat. Please, Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev. And I'm asking for these amendments and we're voting. Dear colleagues, this is a second reading, we've already discussed this document, please calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MP. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, on March 17, at its meeting, reviewed and adopted the warnings made to the draft law by National MP Carmazin. Amendment 1 reject as one which duplicates paragraph 2 of paragraph 5. 3 Arrangements for the organization and joint counter-terrorism measures in the territories of the States participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States according to which, in the commission of offences, participants in joint anti-terrorist actions by the Ukrainian side are required to assume their responsibility under Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Yuri Carmazin as the author of the amendment. Please, the microphone. Your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u40	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps for technical reasons, I think I'd like to ask Oleg Alexiyovich to take a look at his version: Is it done or is what was proposed to be done? The words in part two of the "reposition of armies." [[Force]] Keeping those words before the first amendment in this, keeping those words, which are not used in the text of an international treaty as opposed to special anti-terrorist formations, is a hindrance to this law. The meaning of "common counter-terrorism measures" and "special anti-terrorist formations" is given in paragraph 1 and sufficiently represents the essence of the actions being carried out by the appropriate formations. Thus, it follows from the text of the international treaty that the military is not used in antiterrorist measures, and these measures themselves will not be military operations. In the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote amendment one. What, what? I Know, 1.1. Please use Carmazin's microphone again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that before the first amendment was made for technical reasons, something was released, although the right column does not contain the words "army" and "force" meaning it is counted. It's not written here. So I'm asking them to record it now on protocol so they can do it later. Oleg Alexiyovich should be clear. The words "army" and "force" are deleted in the right column, and in the left they are not, accepted in the first reading. So I'm asking you to be clear on this. As for the first amendment, the first amendment refers to a slightly different one. It tells us that the legislation of the party in whose territory these measures are being carried out does not apply to military personnel. And anyway, they're under Ukraine's jurisdiction. That is, we give priority to our legislation. This is not available anywhere. So I'm asking you to support the first amendment and make it clear that it's included in the right column, but it's not said that it's not in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u43	Please, Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u44	As far as editing is concerned, this may be done. As for the amendment of one, I repeat that there is a text in the text, in the text of paragraph 5.3. that our military personnel will be under the jurisdiction of Ukraine. It's already in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! It's either a technical readjustment, now, one minute. The point is, the left column says, "to the parties in the redeployment of forces, special anti-terrorist formations." In the right column, where the final text is proposed, the words "army," "force" are deleted. So the question is whether it's a technical error or whether it's a conscious decision. I understand that the issue is that it is right not to allow foreign troops to enter Ukraine. But the question is: Is it a technical error, or is it a conscious correction? Calm down. Now we're Vladimir of Earth, let him come, let's ask. Dear colleagues! It's a conscious correction, these words are deleted. Right? Please state again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u46	It's a conscious correction. And I'm going to delete those two words, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u47	I mean, your honor, for the record, we rule out the word "army" right. [[Force]] Now for the first amendment. I place my vote on Amendment 1.1 of Yuri Karmazin. An amendment shall be put to the vote. Please make up your mind. [[11:21:53]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 5 / 1 Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u48	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I thank you very much for understanding that the left column and the right column have a difference, that was my offer. It's very important for the state, thank you for looking after it, because I see that not everyone reads the text. Amendment 1.2 refers to the fact that special means and materials for providing special anti-terrorist forms of the Ukrainian side are property of Ukraine. And they can't be kept or in any form alienated by the side that asks. This is if we are spending somewhere, whether in Transnistria, Moldova, or in the territory of the Russian Federation. This has to be clearly written down and done. I don't understand why it's rejected and it's just improving the text of the law, but I don't see any politics here, there's no politics here, there's a question of ownership of the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u49	Thank you. Amendment 2 was rejected by the Committee as duplicated by paragraph 4.3, which reads: "The party that asks is refusing any claims to the party that is asked what is involved in joint anti-terrorist measures, including compensation for damage caused by natural or legal persons in the territory of the party that asks if they are involved in the tasks assigned by the authorities." I would like to draw your attention to paragraph 4.2. of this clause, which states in particular that special means and materials of special anti-terrorist formation should be taken out by the party they are asking after a joint anti-terrorist action has been completed from the territory of the party that is asking. Since special circumstances make it impossible to produce special means and materials, a party asking on the basis of a mutual arrangement may pass them on to the party asking. Compared to the amendment, paragraph 4.2 of the regulation is more successful because it takes into account the interests of Ukraine in cases where transport costs to return to Ukraine of special means and materials of security exceed the cost of such resources and materials, i.e., their return to Ukraine is not worthwhile.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I place my vote on Amendment 1.2 of Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:51]] For-64 Correction not supported. Amendment 1.3. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that the position is not as commentative as it is to give up Ukrainian property, transportation, not transportation, the question of merit. This is before the last amendment. The third amendment is very important and refers to the fact that the party that asks the Ukrainian side is indemnifying the military and other persons who are part of the special terrorist formations of the Ukrainian side and members of their families all costs of injury, disability or death in the event that such damage has been caused during the period of the parties to the joint anti-terrorist action in the territory of the party that asks in order the intended legislation of the party who asks that the extent of such damages should not be less than what is envisaged in Ukraine. The cases that are making us sign in Iraq right now. Come on, I'm talking to all the national MPs. That's a warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u52	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u53	Thank you. The committee rejected this amendment, such as that of paragraph 5.1., which adequately regulates the order and extent of compensation to participants in joint antiterrorist measures and their families, the cost of injury or death. And by preserving the benefits, guarantees, and compensations established by law. That's the committee's opinion, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u54	Amendment 1.3 shall be put to the vote. Yuri Carmazin. [[11:27:03]] Z-87 Correction not supported. Other amendments are included in the proposal to put the committee to a vote. I am putting to the vote, honourable attention, on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol, on the Approval of the Position, on the order of the organization, on joint anti-terrorist measures in the territories of the States of the parties of the spouses and the independent states. Registration number 0127. Please vote. [[11:27:48]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you. Out of procedure, Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u55	The Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, according to the statement made in the morning in connection with the events in Iraq, insists that the draft Law 4329 introduced by our Communist faction, which envisions the recall of our military continent, and thus we protect our boys, our sons die there for nothing. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to now question the urgent procedure for inclusion in the agenda of the day, just to consider the matter and remove the sin of the one who took some part of the Supreme Council, the Communist faction did not vote by sending the military continent there. Why do I insist? This morning, the Rules and the list of issues about the accident in which. was a member of our colleague, a national MP. We made a decision and made a commission, but it's about killing our military in Iraq. That's why I'm asking you urgently.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u56	I'll have the committee give it to you, because we, Mikhailo Melniczuk, were asking questions about Dobriv, and I brought up this document, the committee's decision. I'm asking you to calm down. I'm speaking English again, personally to you, that I'm just going to check that the committee hasn't considered the issue and we have no reason to include it. So I'm going to keep going. I'm asking the committee to make their proposals, their views. I want to repeat to you in Ukrainian that I asked Mikhailo Melniczuk, who asked questions, to give information, to raise information, and it turns out that the committee didn't consider it. Now they're going to give us the papers, and then we're going to get the Conciliation Council and we're going to make a decision. So listen to the end, and then be critical. Andrew School, please. Not all at once, three minutes of procedure, Bondarenko and enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I actually wanted to say that there are a lot of people here who are complaining about bringing the Ukrainian troops out of Iraq, and because of the ratification of this agreement that we have adopted, we will immediately bring these troops into Chechnya. And I'm convinced that Communists as one vote to have Ukrainian soldiers killed there, if killed in Chechnya -- that's great, that's very good, because they'll die there for Russia's sake. And so I would like there to be no double standards here, because the ratification of this agreement that took place today on joint anti-terrorist activities, the fight against anti-terrorist activities within the CIS, in Chechnya, will be declared terrorists and Ukrainian boys will die there under Chechen bullets. And I want all those who voted in favour to know that they took responsibility for the death of those young men who would die in Chechnya from Ukraine, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u58	Yes, Bondarenko. Well, now, well, respectable colleagues. I announced Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u59	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear friends! Today, we talk a lot about the fact that our soldiers on a foreign land are starting to fight again. In time -- it was in Afghanistan, in other countries. And today we condemn that time. At the same time, today someone is beginning to shift his accent. It's bad in Iran, it's bad in Iraq, and it's good in Chechnya. The ratification of this agreement, which has just been mentioned, and all those who voted in favour of this covenant today have decided that it is only in Chechnya that we can fight terrorism on Chechen soil. So our boys are about to die there. Therefore, we need to guard our land and fight, if it is to be, God forbid, with terrorism at home, rather than delaying our earth’s trouble by participating in wars in other territories. Therefore, fellow believers, if you condemn such a war in one place, do not vote a hundred percent for us to do so elsewhere. I think they should realize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u60	Replica is Simonenko, then Assadchev and all. Dear colleagues, with the same success I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u61	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u62	One minute, Peter Mikolaiovich. How did I give my word to Igor Ostash when you said "Our Ukraine," why didn't you yell? Why didn't they scream? Excuse me, Peter Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u63	Simonenko, the Communist faction. In fact, the tragic pages of a period of our history, in this case, and what had little place in Afghanistan, should teach some to draw conclusions. The Communists concluded and did not vote for our boys to be sent to Iraq to shed blood. But today the blood of our soldiers is on the hands of ours and those who voted for their direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u64	Assadchev. There's Assadchev. Assadchev will tell you everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u65	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't quite understand why you refuse to repent to the Communists. Of course, they will not ask for all their sins this terrible week. But at least they'll beg for the sins they committed along with Kuchma, I'm Yanukovich. They won't ask that they and Hitler march in Brest. And for this crime, one and a half million of our soldiers were laid down in the first months of the war. But at least for Kuchma, they can ask for their sins. Give them this opportunity, we'll support them in that. They're all criminals. And that's what everyone knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, let's calm down. Well, the others just came in. Give you a line and then you. Let's have the gmira, and then the silence, and we'll exchange the lines. No questions! You just did. Gmiri's microphone, please, and then Silence. And then let's do it for the others.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u67	Former KPCS member of Assadchev allowed himself to make a statement to the communists. [[Yes or no?]] In that regard, I have a question. In our Ukraine faction, there are many former members of the KPCS and let everyone know how many crimes he has committed. Personally, I'd like to hear it. Here's Mr. Udovenko standing by and let him know how many crimes he's committed. There are other former members of the CPS. I'm definitely protesting the dirty slander that sounds on the part of those who don't want to call themselves "ours."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u68	Asadchev’s name was mentioned, and he has the right to a replica. Please, out of the way. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u69	Honorable National MPs, citizens of Ukraine. I want everyone to know that I was never a member of the Communist Party. Never! But I want to say that really, there were a lot of honest communists among my friends, but you don't treat them. You're not Communists -- you're a "companion" who's been drinking and winding up in the U.S.R., and today you and Kuchma are rolling up Ukraine. You're criminals! You're a "companion," not a Communist party!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to mention what day it is on the calendar. Let's just calm down, for God's sake. We made trouble for each other, blamed each other. But we have to live in this country and work together. Let's get this straight! Why are we digging trenches in the middle of a session hall? A draft law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Libyan Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, is there a need to report this law? The point is, the committee has learned, there are no warnings. Let's make a decision and keep working. There is a committee decision to accept this document. Please, Mr. Nadjajchenko Valentina Aleksandrovich, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. I ask very briefly. Prepare Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is proposed. The Consular Convention was signed on a visit by the President of Ukraine to Libya from 4 to 14 October 2003 in Tripoli. The Consular Assembly of Ukraine was governed by national interests and, above all, required the proper protection of the interests and rights of Ukrainian citizens in Libya. The Consular Convention is set up to develop a contractual and bilateral base with Libya and corresponds to equal and humanitarian and economic contacts between Ukraine and Libya. A bilateral convention is based on the Vienna Convention of 1963 and develops and complements this multilateral and international instrument. The implementation and application of the aforementioned Consular Convention does not require amendments to existing legislation and does not entail additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The ratification of the convention is in the national interest of Ukraine and we are convinced that additional powers of consular officials in Ukraine will allow more effective protection of our citizens, their rights and interests in Libya. In this connection, I would like to point out that the bill has been discussed and supported at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies would like to support the ratification of the convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u72	Any questions, dear fellows? Sign up, three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please. Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, a faction of Communists
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Solomatina Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u74	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u75	Thank you. I would like to ask you to inform us what is now the state of economic ties between Libya and Ukraine? And what prospects are there soon to increase the trade, as well as the interaction in the development of the left hand side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u76	I would like to inform you that according to the results of the President's visit and the subsequent delegations, now the Prime Minister of Libya, you know, is on a visit here, there are clear arrangements. The first is the exchange of medical staff and their additional legal protection. It's for this convention that we would suggest ratifying. In parallel, you know, economic projects are being developed for the integration and oil sector of Ukraine for economic participation, first and foremost, for the economy of Libya, other projects are less important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u77	Victor Razwadowski, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u78	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Please pass the word to Ostashu, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u79	And Mount Restus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u80	The faction of our Ukraine. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Deputy Minister of State for the meaningful report, and indeed, we think we need to support this serious document. My question concerns one of the most important problems of our foreign policy activities, the legal protection of our countrymen abroad. As you know and have talked about, a large number of Ukrainian doctors are working in the Libyan Jamahiriya today. I would like you to clarify how protected they are today on the right scale to what extent is today a serious problem of becoming a Libyan society? And can they really be considered to be under real control by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. We're looking at this moment or this situation with two components. The first element is the establishment of an employment agreement that clearly defined the first social protection of our medical personnel in Libya. And secondly, she defined the procedure for obtaining work permits and their status at a medical facility or other. Consular convention as a second ingredient that expands the powers of the consuls or our embassy in Libya in general, with the need to provide additional medical and legal assistance and any advisory assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u82	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u83	Please give the word to Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u84	Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u85	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, please tell us when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will provide us with the original documents of those who will be considered by the Supreme Council so that every MP, after studying the document, can vote willfully for the ratification of a document. We do this in the blind and then in the consequences that we have. Our people die in Iraq, they die in other parts of our planet. And by the way, the soldier who died in Iraq yesterday, according to the data I have today, is my countryman from the Zitomir region. And I'm concerned today that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, after what happened yesterday in Iraq, is responding to the Foreign Affairs Department of the events that have taken place. And for that reason, it gives us a ratification to protect our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. In fact, the Consular Convention. I would like to stress once again that unlike the Vienna Convention, this convention, which is proposed for ratification, is expanding the rights of Ukrainian diplomats in Libya. The country's legislation is specific. The country is specific, religion and culture. That's why two governments have agreed on a bilateral level and the President has signed that authorization will be broader, the powers to protect Ukrainian citizens, to participate and to communicate with local authorities, with central authority in any case, when intervention by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is needed, or simply assistance. So essentially, this is what the convention is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u87	Time's up. Sit down, please. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed Ukraine's draft law ratifying the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. The need for ratification and convention is to further develop the legal and contractual base of the Ukrainian-Lebanese relations as stated by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The implementation of the provisions of this convention does not provide for additional financial costs from the State budget, it does not contain provisions which contravene the current legislation of Ukraine, its implementation does not require the adoption of new laws or amendments to the current legislation of Ukraine, the General Scientific and Scientific Administration considers it appropriate to ratify the convention, considering that the committee unanimously members of the Committee have decided to recommend the Supreme Council to ratify, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u89	Please write down the questions for three minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u90	Please tell me the point of the matter is as follows. We are talking about the establishment of consular relations, and we are talking about the fact that there are no embassies of full-fledged relations, something that prevents this or that development is related, because the material that we have received is talking about friendly relations between our States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u91	Thank you, too, for the question, I would ask that a little more carefully read what is written there, just as this document gives legal strengthening to the work of our consulate, in turn our consulate will be able to have a legal, sufficiently legal basis, i.e. a signed convention and ratified, act within the framework of the law to protect its fellow countrymen who are there, and the interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u92	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Stanislav Telisforovich, looking at international relations now, let's say with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, I would still like to go back to our decision on Iraq. I don't have six in the morning. The residents of Zitomirščina are on the phone, just like the guy in the Zitomirsk district died. The battalion was formed in the territory of Zitomirsk. And those who follow death, God forbid, they will again be from the region of Zitomir. Please tell me, as head of the committee, an experienced man, I respect you very much. Say it. Please, what decision has your committee already made regarding the death of our Ukrainian, Ukrainian, civilian boy in Iraq yesterday? And how do you see the solution to this problem? Why don't we consider today the decision to withdraw our troops from Iraq? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u94	Thank you. I'm with you, and I'm sure with all my colleagues, I'm going through the tragedy that happened yesterday. As soon as it happened, it became known to me and Georgi Korniyovich, with whom we cooperate. Because it's a matter of priority, perhaps, except what everybody's talking about. It's about the work of our committees. We immediately invited information to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defense, what had happened, what the reasons and what the situation was, and what measures had been taken to ensure that the service and the lives of our soldiers were properly carried. Today we have a committee meeting, we're going to look at this information, and if it's interesting, including this information, we're going to get to your knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u95	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u96	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u97	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u98	Dear Stanislav Telisforovich, please tell us that Kuchma's love for Muamar Katdafi does not have an accidental political subtext. Maybe there is a very close relationship between, say, Ukraine and Jamagaria, because the Katdafi regime is similar to the Kuchma regime. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u99	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Unfortunately, I'm not aware of the degree of relationship you're talking about. And now we're just looking at it, and we're looking at the committee more faithfully, and we're bringing to the Supreme Council the issue of the ratification of the agreement signed between the two states. On our part, the convention was signed by the Foreign Minister, Constantine Ivanovich Grishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u100	Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, Stanislav Tellisforovich. What shall we vote on, fellow believers? You've already decided, haven't you? Lighten up. Calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Put on the sign, please, the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled. Ten minutes to talk. Please, Chernewsky. Chernewsky, I have announced, you listen and speak, please. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u101	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! “Our Ukraine”, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Darnick electoral district of Kiev. First of all, I want to thank everyone who has supported the ruling that we have just voted on. And I can see with all my heart, and of course I have a lot of emotion about it. And you're great people. It's the Jamagaria. I'll tell you. Well, what country is it that we have to sign a treaty with? Look. The first signer ghost is supposed to give us oil. Who's going to make this oil? The misery they're still earning on it. And the people are poor. That's the first time. It's different. It's basically a totalitarian regime, a terrorist regime that explodes airplanes. Nobody messes with them without making any deals. If the communists want to sign off on it, they're gonna make money from the bad guys who are drinking blood from the Ukrainian people today. This is please. This is a humiliation of the dignity of Ukraine, because no one is signing any of the agreements with Jamagiriya until they make a democratic regime there, that's the first. He signed this agreement and he listens to our MD who doesn't protect our citizens all over Ukraine, they suffer, they get arrested for nothing, they get jailed there. I'm begging you, people's deputies and voters who listen to me on the radio, don't go to Jamagiri, it's a nightmare! Even our whores run away from there. That's terrible. That's it! If you vote to ratify this treaty, we're being framed, we're being listened to by the entire world community -- let our delegation go first, see that there's a constitutional order, that's not a separate citizen, a billionaire, that's humiliating to the whole people, is it? Protect the people in Jamagiri. He suffers from tyranny. And when we sign this agreement, we put ourselves on a level of country, well, which doesn't respect itself simply and everything. I'm asking you to consider all of the last agreements in the same order: first let the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the foreign affairs, to which the KGB has grown.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u102	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, distinguished speakers! May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! I would ask you to take this matter seriously. I think Leonid Mikhailovich, who was speaking, he just doesn't know anything about this country, he didn't read it. Yesterday we had a meeting in Parliament with the Prime Minister of this country. It's about interstate relations, and you can't throw that phrase away, you can't drop the charges. I recommend you read about this country's economic development, which of its assets are deposited in other countries, then you would say otherwise. We must adhere to the basic ethics of the Ukrainian national MP, a normal, elementary logic when it comes to interstate relations. Once again, dear colleagues, I ask you to step out of such positions. Go ahead, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u103	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I realize it's hard when there's excitement in the room, but I wanted to talk essentially about the document, and in the form of a document being adopted. I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, so that we can make it absolutely mandatory for you to see this right now on that bill that was based on an anti-terrorist operation that we have to put absolutely on the rule that all ratifications have to go through two readings. It's a law, it's a law. It is the right of the national MP to make any or all other proposals. It is absolutely necessary to accept that document as it is. But in this or in another way, that's another question. The Constitution determines that we are under an obligation to agree on the obligations of international agreements. And it is this convention that is subject to ratification in accordance with article 85, paragraph 32, of the Constitution. Dear National Deputies! I would just like to sharpen, firstly, the attention and ask you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to put adoption today only on the first reading of the ratification so that people who can't analyze it will analyze and make their amendments or warnings. As far as I'm concerned, what kind of issues do I see? I see problems in several articles, especially those that give immunity. I fear that there will be no other people in the form of real diplomats and that we will really consider this because of the prism of protecting Ukraine's national interests. I mean article 8 of the convention, where it says in the first part that every employee has a corresponding card that confirms his right to perform his consular functions. The situation is also spread to: employees of staff and private domestic workers or citizens of the accredited or third, resident, family members (provided they are not citizens of the state of residence. [[It's part of a friend.]] [[provided that they are not citizens of the state of residence]] And then we go smoothly to the immune system. Article 19, paragraph 3, says that family members of the head of the Consular Institution use personal immunity and immunity from judicial jurisdiction in criminal, administrative and civil matters. [[provided that they are not citizens of the state, do not live permanently and do not engage in income-generating activities]] I would like to think about whether we should make some warnings about these articles in view of the preceding talk. I think we need to ratify the first reading by giving it to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, Solomon has the word. Well, time's up. Like a head. You said you refused as a head. Please, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u105	Well, I have a few words to say as the head of an interparliamentary group with the great socialist Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. These are the relationships. We met several times with representatives of the Embassy of the Jamahiriya in Ukraine. Yesterday, by the way, there was a meeting of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina, Prime Minister, in our lecture to the Government of the Libyan State. And it was about strengthening, first of all, our economic ties. And I want to stress only the main directions of these relationships that are already in the process. This became a firm, almost firm NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". Should our representatives, the Ukrainian State in Libya, be protected when they gain not only the Naka or the Ukrainian people certain gains in their breeding? We have to protect it. A very large project, a great river to provide the Libyan people with clean drinking water from the artesian wells in our scout geologists is a very great experience on this issue. [[5 million people in Libya]] Should we help them to become involved in their relationship with Libya? We have to help. The railway is now being built in Tripoli Capital. We have a great deal of experience, and have our railways and builders been able to absorb these terrains? We could do that. And most of all, to this day, the Libyan side has been treating our doctors with great respect and respect, who have been working there for more than a year. And it is they that are the preeminent force of our Ukrainian state and our society in Libya. Should they be more reliably protected by Libya’s interests? Indeed, we must protect ourselves. So I would like to ask on behalf of our interparliamentary group to support this bill and thus to support our citizens who are already working in Libya and who will work unconditionally. And the last words. I hope, my fellow Members, that there will soon be a visit by the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a more expanded composition compared to how this has been done and not only with government representatives, but also with representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like you to lead this delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u106	Yes, it is. Thank you. Andrew School, last speaker. Well, now we're going to finish the question and announce a recess, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I’d like to say that I didn’t give my word to anyone, so I don’t know where that information came from. And before I say how I feel about signing this Consular Agreement, I would like to make a few points. Let us recall that Muamar Katdafi, leader of the Libyan Jamahiriya, was rewarded by the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. Have you forgotten? I want to remind you. The president personally rewarded him. We have such a good tradition: then Luzkova will be rewarded with the Order of Yaroslav the Wise, and there will be others. I think we need to single out all the enemies of Ukraine and reward them with the Order of Jaroslav the Wise, how they act wisely in order to consolidate the Ukrainian nation or in some other way, this is all done. Next. What's going on in Libya right now, and what's really good about what's going on with the Ukrainian workers is what's building the railroad is definitely great. But we must not forget that the Libyan Jamagiria was responsible for the terrorist attack of an airplane over Lockerbie, where about 250 innocent people were killed. And we need to know that Libya admitted that it supported terrorism, that Libya acknowledged that it financed those people and provided them with a political roof that had carried out a terrorist act. Most importantly, I would like Ukraine to repent in turn and admit that it is using terrorist methods to combat the opposition, using terrorist methods to combat existing opposition in parliament and Ukraine. I think that actually this discussion that's unfolding behind my back is this confirmation. So I stress that it's very good that Ukraine is maintaining relations with Libya, and unfortunately, it has to be ratified for one reason, because there are 10,000 Ukrainian workers, and they have no defence against the will of the left-wing authorities, so we need to protect them, only in that case do we have to vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. So without overestimating the possibilities, without overestimating the fact that friendship with Libya would bring at least some profits to the treasury of the Ukrainian State -- that's the relationship when in Ukraine power would change, when Ukraine would be removed from power by a terrorist regime seeking protection and roof in other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u108	Please take your seats. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u109	Only then will the relationship develop, and they will actually develop. That's why. It's a ratification into a long box when it comes. In fact, Ukraine has Ukrainian power and will be able to develop its economic relations with all those interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm going to put this document to the vote. I'd like to remind you, my dear fellows, of such statistics that we now have 2,000 doctors working on the left hand side, 8,000 doctors in the near future, and they need adequate legal protection. Even so, this document needs to be considered. So I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, registration number 0175. Please vote. What happened there? [[12:04:25]] For three hundred The law is passed. A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Assadchev's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u112	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I think it's still necessary to report what happened before the break. I think that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's behavior is just a hooligan act because I went up to him and asked that if there was now an attempt to rape the Supreme Council to put the day-to-day question of the review of the Constitution into order, then I put in a bill, and I just insisted that it be included and I could report it. Then Martinyuk grabbed the phone and started throwing it at me. First of all, I think he was trying to corrupt the hardware -- at least he needs to pay for it. Secondly, I believe that this hooligan act must be taken away from holding plenary meetings of the Supreme Council. I ask that this question be referred to the Standing Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u113	Please, Adam Ivanovich, one minute, Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! I was hoping that National Deputy Assadchev would be a little bit. More unreasonable, more honest than it really is. If you talk, tell me everything. Tell me everything: With what charges have you come up against me personally, why am I voting for reform, why do you keep silent about this? I won't do it again, but I'm really sorry I didn't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! It's announced that today you know what kind of holiday and what day, I'm asking respectable colleagues to treat everyone the same way. For when you saw that you had thrown everything into the Presidency, then you only contributed silently in this way. Today, I would ask everyone to stick to the rules, not to reprimand each other, who are unconfirmed, not to blame each other. And today, because of the Annunciation, I think we should lead accordingly. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Indonesia on Mutual Protection of Secret Information is being announced for consideration. I'm sorry, dear colleagues. A draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of India on mutual protection of classified information is being announced for consideration. Is there a need for a report? I very briefly ask Igor Drizcan, deputy head of the Security Service. Please come to the rostrum. Here comes the question, Your Honor. Please, Igor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of India on mutual protection of classified information has been submitted for your consideration. The agreement was designed to carry out the relevant mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the aim of creating legal rules to strengthen cooperation between our States in the field of national security, the protection of the rule of law on the counter-terrorism line, the drug business, the international criminal group, and military and technical cooperation. This agreement was signed in India on August 12, 2003. On behalf of our nation, the treaty was signed by a foreign minister. According to its contents, the document is fully in line with the international practice and practice of making appropriate bilateral agreements with our nation. It ensures the exclusively equitable and partnership nature of the relationship between the parties, obliges them to take the necessary steps to protect the received or jointly created secret information. In accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Secret and International Contracts, this treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project is accepted without notice with all interested agencies. According to the Ministry of Justice, this project meets the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine and all the requirements of design technology. No additional expenditure is foreseen from the State Budget on the implementation of this law and agreement. Ratification does not entail adopting new or correcting existing legislation in Ukraine. Thus, once it has become effective, this agreement will certainly enhance the effectiveness of Ukraine’s and the Republic of India’s mutual cooperation. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, questions. Three minutes, please. Sign up for questions. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u118	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Please tell me the ratification of the agreement on mutual protection of classified information, in your opinion, will contribute to the deepening or expansion or improvement of military and technical cooperation, since it is not a secret that Ukraine's military and industrial complexes have much to do with the implementation of its contracts and the implementation of those agreements between the Republic of India, which link their expectations to India's economy and our markets of commerce there. It's very important today when we start building our machine complex and rebuilding our high-tech industries. So, please tell me, in the field of military technical cooperation, military technical cooperation. How does the ratification of such an agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of India on mutual protection of classified information contribute to what extent?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u119	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Of course, the existence of this agreement will not only contribute to but will be a necessary condition, a guarantee for further development of cooperation, including in the military-technical sphere, as it is in this area that information is provided for the transfer or sharing of secrets and information with limited access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u120	Mikhailo Melniczuk, PPU faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u121	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. We, the faction will support, of course, and will vote in favour. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you, I'm Melniczuk, here. I'm talking to you. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has already issued a decree on the provision of mineral fertilizers to Ukraine's internal market for the period of spring and field work in 2004 at number 5095. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you were assigned in March months. The committee has carried out your duties on my behalf. I ask you to put it into the agenda, consider this very necessary decree and this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u122	In one position, on one condition, since it is the authorization of the Committee on Finance and Banking, it is the duty that they should give their opinion. There is no committee conclusion, no calculations. We have to do this, Michael Vasilovich. Yes, Vladimir Nechiporek, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Igor Vasilovich! Our faction will support this bill and we thank you for bringing it out and for supporting it. But we would like to draw your attention to the protection of economic information, which today is being used by various natural, legal persons for profit, for purposes of confrontation between our nations and so on. And we'd ask you to stop more and more at the top of the board, hidden from better economic information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u124	Thank you. One of the objectives of this agreement is to protect information in the field of economic cooperation. I think the ratification of this agreement will be worth answering the question you asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u125	Have a seat, please. Stanislaw Telisforovich Staszewski, head of the committee. Stanislaw Telisforovich, please. The committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the bill in connection with national security and defence. We got the conclusions of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which gave a positive assessment. After that, the Committee considered and unanimously decided to make a decision to the Supreme Council and to ask for support for the ratification of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Stanislav Tellisforovich, sit down. On the way, there'll be a question, a possibility, a negotiation, please. Dear colleagues, no objection to putting this to a vote? Okay, 10 minutes to talk. Mikola Tomenko, then Carmazin get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u128	Mikola Tomenko. Dear National Deputies! The agreement, I think, is important, but the uniqueness of this agreement is that, once it is approved, the government authorities of Ukraine will become more open to the government authorities of India than to the citizens of Ukraine. The point is that the agreement contains a list of documents or information to which access is restricted. In particular, in Ukraine, I would like to remind everyone, in accordance with the State Secret Act, there is an exclusive list of what documents are kept secret. So, according to current legislation, we have 3 griffins, the degree of secrecy -- it's secret, it's completely secretive and it's particularly important. We have no other code of secrecy. At the same time, according to the 1998 Cabinet of Ministers, we have classified documents from the media, from citizens under the terms "for official use", "not for publication" and "not for printing." These illegal things have been happening to us since 1998 and, for example, it was only in 2003 that the Cabinet classified 46 and 12,58 documents. So we have a secret, for example, a schedule for the President's Administration, a schedule for the Customs Service, and so on. This deal, this illegal code of secrecy we make. If India may legislatively have such a secrecy clause, even though English experts say that the term does not mean service use. So we make a code of secrecy for the official use of our contract. This means that, for example, a citizen of Ukraine or a journalist cannot get information about a government authority and read about it. And let's say the government or the Indian special services can get that. So I think it's paradoxical things, so I don't object to this agreement, but I think that we are our own, so to speak,'secretity in the middle of Ukraine should be brought into line with the current legislation and eliminate these shameful facts of concealing completely normal information. As this is happening at our regional level, they're secreting birth and mortality so that they don't show what the situation is in Ukraine. So once again, I have an offer to the Cabinet of Ministers, and to the Security Service, if we sign such a democratic agreement, we have to go on a journey ofdisclosure for journalists and citizens of our information. And I'm going to end up with positive information. We have a little bit of a secretion of the work of the Supreme Council. We finally got Radio Roxx back on track. For both radio and MPs, I'm saying that the Supreme Council session is being broadcast at 103.6 FM today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u130	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. I welcome the Ukrainian people with the Annunciation. I think it's good news, the one Tomenko told. To the knowledge of our listeners and patriots in Ukraine, I want to say no good news. This is the news that is being prepared for tomorrow to draft amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine by her apologists, including the leader of most of Mr. Gavrish, the representative of President Zadrodzny, who are grateful for the constitutional reform of the President's decree already being appointed by the members of the High Council of Justice. So I urge people to express their civic position that the Constitution and constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens should not be trampled on in these great holidays.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u131	Yuri Anatolyovich, let's go over the file.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u132	I, honourable national deputies, speak on the subject. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm on the subject. So that's what I did. If necessary, Peter Mikolaiovich, I will be completely secretive of the information. But you're going to be yelling that's not the subject. That's why I'm going back to this bill. I'll be completely secret if I have to. So as long as I'm on the subject, on this subject. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have in your article two "Comparison of Access Restriction Griffs" written top secret -- completely secret and secret -- in secret. And then it goes confidentially and for official use. It's in India and we're getting under it. I think there'd be only two points -- secret and completely secret. That's understandable. Because it doesn't go anywhere for the service. So, honourable national MPs, I think India is also our strategic partner. We have foreign political services today. And here we see in the background notes that the deputy head of President Eagle's Administration has agreed on everything. Mr. Eagle needs to know that we have already caused Ukraine a lot of inconvenience and economic damage through these Pakistani contracts, because India and I were more comfortable working together and being more cooperative. I'm in charge of protecting classified information, but it's not like we're putting four griffins in place of two. I will therefore propose that this bill be adopted only in the first reading, as required by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u133	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u134	Thank you. I'd like to say first of all that any bill that comes from the Ukrainian Security Service can immediately be seen as undermining Ukraine's national security first. And this bill on ratification, on protection, so-called protection of classified information, shows that I fully agree with previous speakers that, first of all, the Indian Security Service will have access to them, but not the Ukrainian people, not the Ukrainian MPs. The other one. I would like to know if Hindus would know about the content of the conversation, such as the national MPs. Is this classified information or not? The Security Service listens to these conversations, and later it will be read by a certain phrasing, this information, by Indian Security Service personnel, or will they read it? Because look, I'll give you an example. Letters threatening Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko were received, these letters were collected, and, as appropriate, in the orderly states, they were transferred to the Ukrainian Security Service. And literally in a few days, all those letters appear on the Internet at Tomorrow's News. " What I'm curious about is, did you hand them over yourself? How much money did you get for this? Will you hold this news agency for tomorrow? I'd like to hear a comment from the Security Service. I understand there's no security officer behind the President's chair, but sooner or later, we're gonna have to get out of the president's shadow, at least under the shadow of the President's chair, and give an answer to who he serves and who is served by the Ukrainian Security Service? What's the point of this bill? I would like to say that the protection of classified information is primarily to be maintained in Ukraine, not to be exchanged in ratification agreements with India, Pakistan, Uzbekistan or with an equally important state like the Libyan Jamagiria. That's not the point. The main thing is to keep the Security Service in order or at least to make it clear that it is the Security Service of the President of Ukraine and then it will be, at least, clear that when the President goes with him he will go into non-existence and the entire Security Service of his. So what I'd like to say is that ratification of this agreement, which is not necessary, is, first of all, not a good or bad relationship with India, but a good relationship with India needs to be made with that country. First of all, it's one and a half billion people, and second of all, it's a colossal market for our high-tech products. But this production will be produced only if, among other things, similar security officials or the dangers of Ukraine and the rest of them come from the political scene of Ukraine. Because I emphasize that their stay there does not create grounds for supporting any of the initiatives proposed by Parliament. I would urge all the national MPs not to support this ratification, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u135	So instead of Oleg Belarus, one minute, please. Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u136	What's one minute for? Don't violate the Rules, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u137	Please don't tell me what I'm doing, I'm saying one minute left. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u138	I ask you to listen, now is my time and give me what you're giving me. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Cell Block. Dear colleagues! The agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of India with mutual security information is an extremely important document and the ratification of this agreement is relevant and necessary in our faction. Especially today, when terrorism has taken on such a scale throughout the world and there is no guarantee that the wave of terrorism will reach Ukraine, too, given the presence of our troops in Iraq, and also because tomorrow the promosk lobby in this Parliament supports the deployment of our troops to Chechnya or anywhere Moscow will say, as the treaty with the dictatorial Socialist Jamageria has been maintained here. Clearly, if Kuchma supports it, the Communists must support it. But the covenant is a framework, if the covenant is a framework, it is very serious. And that's why it's necessary here, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to just coordinate some things between us, because they just don't come together. For example, honourable members of the government, in article 6, paragraph 1 provides that the secrecy charter is provided by the party that provides it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u139	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u140	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You see, I respect and love you again. People are good, look, members of the government! You have the first paragraph of Article 6 which provides that the receiving party gives the griffin secrecy. But paragraph 3 of this article provides for regulation. That is, the third paragraph does not correspond, but it contrasts with the first one in the same article. Well, we will, of course, support, vote today, because the deal needs to be maintained. But if there is a framework agreement, please consider this point for the future when similar agreements are made with other countries. Well, it's not one thing to say in one article, it's another thing to say in another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Question completed. I am voting on the committee's proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of India on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. Please vote. [[12:58:00]] For 367 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Convention on Protection and Development of the Carpathians is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, there are all the conclusions of the committee. What would you think? Please, Minister of Environmental Protection of Polakov Sergey Vasilovich. Will you be from the committee, Ivan Alexanderovich? Will you report from the committee? You'll be next. Very short, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u142	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I will do my best briefly. The Carpathian Convention highlights the unique environmental significance of Carpathian, located in the center of the European continent. The main objective of the Carpathian Convention is to pursue a balanced policy and cooperation on protection and sustainable development of the Carpathians, improve the quality of life of people, enhance local economic development and the importance of communities, ensure the conservation and reproduction of unique rare and typical natural complexes and objects of Carpathians that have a conservation, aesthetic, scientific, educational, recreational and other importance, prevent negative anthropogenic impacts on mountain ecosystems, support the common policy of the region on ecologically balanced development. It should be noted that the idea of the Carpathian Convention was proposed by Ukraine in 2001 at a regional summit. Ukraine later played a major role in the development of an international legal instrument, the involvement of UNEP and the countries of the Alpine region. Thus today, international cooperation in the field of protection and sustainable development, Carpathians, has brought together seven countries in the Carpathian region: Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Ukraine And the countries of the Alpine region: Austria, Italy, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, and other European countries As well as non-governmental organizations. I'm just going to talk about a lot of things that might be interesting, and this is going to be in the framework of the investment development of the Carpathian Convention, the Carpathian Secretariat, the executive body that would take care of the day-to-day activities and the development of proposals and recommendations aimed at implementing the provisions of this Convention at this stage. A temporary secretariat was created in Vienna. [[Austria]] Ukraine insists, and today we insist that this secretariat be in Kiev. As far as money is concerned. The amount of the country's contributions will be determined at the first party conference. It's already been discovered this way between all countries, it's going to be somewhere between 20 and 30,000 euros a year to support the secretariat and the coordination functions. And by the way, Ukraine is now working on a number of international projects to support the convention on the line. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u143	Three minutes to ask. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Manchulenko Georgie, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u144	George Manchulenko, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mr. Minister! Undoubtedly, the ratification of this convention is timely, it is important, including for Ukraine. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First. Still, will the permanent secretariat be in Kiev? You said he's in Vienna, even though Austria didn't sign this framework convention, unless she might have joined Poland later. That's the first question. The second question. Whether this convention will make it impossible for the barbaric deforestation of the Ukrainian Carpathians. We know this situation at Zakarpatta, we know that it's a little better, but it's a pretty bad situation now in the Beetle Carpathians. Will it prevent the criminal use of forest resources in our Ukrainian Carpathians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u145	Thank you. What I'm trying to say is, what's relevant to the secretariat and its location. First of all, this decision was made now, as a temporary one, it will finally be decided at the first conference. Ukraine insists that it should still be located in the city of Kiev. This is the first time. It's different. What it means to use Carpathian, Carpathian, Carpathian, Carpathian, Carpathian, and so forth. This will allow us, at the international level, to engage international organizations, still have an impact on the negative things that are happening to us now. We're in no way like the Ministry of Environment, we're not taking away this issue, and we're now creating a forest inspection according to the President's decree, and I think we're going to strengthen control and surveillance of the use and reproduction of forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u146	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! We made another high-quality jump today. I'm talking to whoever's sitting in this room. You and I have been working on ratification for two hours. I think we've played a little bit of a game, if you don't mind. Because so far, there are a lot of laws that need to be considered. And today, as we've been looking at, I've actually become a little ashamed, both before the CIS, and before Libya, and before India, that we sometimes talk to you about things that are not actually allowed in diplomatic relations. That is why I agree with this convention. And I would like the MOU to, well, take it seriously and try to comment if there are questions from other stakeholders about what was in the hall today, that, well, there are situations where things are not as healthy as they wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u148	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u149	Dear Anatoly, I've been working on oil exploration for some time, and we in Carpathians have been testing drill equipment, and there's a big technique that we can't turn on request, and we need to get a request or permission in the Cabinet of Ministers, or in the Council of Ministers of Ukraine to cut down 3 bars. Now, I'm often there on the job and from the Supreme Council, from the faction, and I'm looking at the beggars where we cut these, the 3, the directions. So it's not three directions, and the entire mountain ranges are gone. What's more, the forest's been drinking wrong before. With cars, and a half - foot - long [half a meter] of trenches, they go into the valleys and the water rustles. And that's it. Yeah, we're in this convention, frame, huh? We're going to Europe to get the lungs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u150	Thank you for asking. I can answer you this way. Well, what you're saying is, I'm not going to comment now, so to speak, because you're saying in principle the truth, but what you're saying about the convention directly is that this convention has a lot of work going on, and it's kind of a collaboration between these states that use Carpathians, because using Carpathians on the one hand, and using Carpathians on the other hand, it's also interconnected. And so, so to speak, this convention allows for international cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u151	Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Vasilovich. Time's up. The first deputy of the committee head, Ivan Aleksandrovich, appears in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u152	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of the Carpathians is presented for your consideration. The aim of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development is to create the legal basis for the implementation of the only policy of the Carpathian region to preserve, balance and reproduce the biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians, preserve the cultural and historical heritage, improve the socio-economic conditions of the population, increase the ecological awareness of citizens, accelerate Ukraine's integration into European society. The need for such a convention has long been ripe. And what is very important is that the adoption of such a convention was initiated by Ukraine. It is our nation that has a leading role to play in developing an organization to discuss and sign this document. And the fact that the convention was signed in Ukraine during the Fifth All-U.S. Ministerial Conference "Devils for Europe" and has become one of the key points of the conference determines not only the importance of it for our country, but also the same great responsibility for its implementation. Why Carpathians? Perhaps some of you remember the chatula saying, "If the Lord God had a vacation, he would have spent it in Carpathians." Carpathians are the green heart of Europe. At the same time, this is where many environmental problems have been accumulated in recent years: deforestation in mountain forests, the destruction of rivers because of unwise growth, the direction and dispersion of russels, the degradation of mountain ecosystems caused by the unbalanced development of the region. Finally, we all remember the terrible floods of the last decade. The Law on Moratorium has become the first step toward correcting the situation. It is time for more systematic action, involving neighbouring countries and remembering the whole region as a whole ecosystem. Today, Ukraine is the first of seven countries to sign the convention to be ratified. It's not just symbolic, but it starts the tradition of preserving our country's leadership at all stages from idea to ratification. Let's say that Ukraine is the depositary of this conference. But we still have to make a lot of effort to have the convention secretariat, its headquarters, the apartment also located in Ukraine. In particular, there is a need to ensure that your financial obligations are fulfilled without loss of time. Here the minister told me that we should make our contribution. It should be understood that this is not only an honor but will also ensure that funds are available for Ukraine to solve environmental problems. The ratification of the Framework Convention will allow foreign investment to be invested in Ukraine to solve complex problems and to ensure balanced development of the Carpathian region. Work is already under way on UNEP and UNDP projects to support the implementation of the convention and to ensure the environmentally sound and balanced development of Carpathian. The convention provides for cooperation with countries in different directions. And this complex approach is promising. In particular, it provides for cooperation in the protection of water resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u153	Two more minutes. Please turn on the microphone. Adam Ivanovich. I'm telling you, they're gonna turn it on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u154	Cooperation in the protection of water resources and the implementation of the Framework Directive is made up of water policy, especially given that the Carpathian region is a major European waterworks, and much of the rivers flow from Ukraine to the countries of the European Union. The development of tourism, including the ecological recovery of culture and life, the development of appropriate infrastructure. Harmonization and greening of transport communications Strengthening cooperation between local authorities and communities in the region Agreeing to an innovative regional development strategy. The main scientific and expert office has come to a positive conclusion about the draft law. The bill is also supported by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting on March 24th decided to submit the bill for ratification and proposes that it be adopted as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u155	Thank you. Ivan Alexanderovich. Please sign up for the question. Three minutes. Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u156	Dear reporter, you know that in recent times the Carpathian forests have become objects of cruel logging and, by the way, they are usually made by high officials or theirs, as it were. Okay, okay, okay, Unfortunately, we have a situation where today huge houses are being built, called residences, and all of this is practically leading to the loss of a unique relicous species of trees in the Carpathians and, indeed, we have a serious ecological situation in the Carpathians. My question to you is, do you really think that international control of such processes will help Ukraine escape such actions, or should we do everything we can to prevent such massive deforestation of the Carpathian forests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u157	This includes international control and international commitments made by each party after the preservation of the Carpathians. I'm not going to reveal a secret, I'm going to say, when I was the minister of ecology and natural resources, and I was faced with the distaste of the Carpathian forest, I was the one who translated the idea of signing such a convention into a practical plane. I was just thinking that by bringing together the efforts of several countries in the region, we can save the Carpathians -- the green heart of Europe for the Ukrainians and other peoples of Europe. Right. That we should make decisions at the national level, but we need to work together here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u158	Yes, Igor Shurma, the faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u159	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear reporter, the faction of Social Democrats, of course, will vote positively, because we believe that the convention will contribute to improving the environmental situation in the Carpathians and the healing of the environment, the preservation of natural wealth and so on, and so on, but I have another question. [[United]] According to the Convention signed by Ukraine, we will pay annual contributions of 21,000. The euro and then the amount of these contributions will be adjusted. I'm interested in the fact that according to article 45 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, it is envisaged that in 2004 the accession of international organizations to the terms of membership that provide for the payment of contributions should be made by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. So is it necessary for the Supreme Council to do the things that should in principle be placed on the Cabinet of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u160	You know what it takes to have a ratification, only then is there an opportunity to finance this activity. Moreover, the convention must come into force in order to be ratified by the other parties. So I think we're going to go to the state budget next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u161	Yes, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction, no. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u162	Please hand over Solomatina.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u163	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u164	Thank you, Yuri Solomatine, the Communist faction. Dear John Alexanderovich! It's very good that we're protecting nature, that we're on our way to protecting nature, even Euro-Integrating. And please tell me how useful this is from that lousy nature conservation fund that we have to distract 20,000 or 30,000 euros from creating another bureaucratic structure. Can't we do that at the expense of the structures that we have today? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u165	What structures?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u166	Even now, there are structures that have been created by the Ministry, even other structures that are associated with nature conservation, and they are being charged with these duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u167	Yuri Petrovich, if you read the convention, you will see that this convention is the establishment of the secretariat itself. That is, the responsibilities of this convention, both the parties to the convention and the authority of the secretariat, include the organization of the session, the conference, the organization of reports and the transfer of reports, the promotion of communication and the exchange of information on matters related to the convention, the other functions of the secretariat that can identify the conference. I mean, there's a structure that will monitor the development of national spatial programs, and without such a secretariat, there's no coordinating body. How can efforts by individual countries be made to store up without a secretary? You can't. Therefore, if such a secretariat exists, it may be necessary to plan for the expenses of the secretariat. And here, Mr. Minister and I have just drawn your attention to the fact that we need to take some steps to have the convention secretariat stationed in Ukraine. This will enable us to solve our own problems more dynamically. This will enable us to activate our activities of an environmental nature on a global scale. And there are great benefits from that. And today, I don't see any arguments. You have to understand that what's happening today in the Carpathians is a billion-dollar loss of character. I'm not saying that there are huge environmental problems for essentially destroying the entire region to destroy the traditions and customs of our people. Therefore, we should not be saving on small costs, but rather take the initiative, and we should take this initiative not only at the stage of the idea, the idea or the signing of this convention, but also at the stage of the implementation of this convention, the transfer of the provisions of this convention to the practical plane. This is our assignment today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u168	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion, 10 minutes. Andrew Schlell. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u169	Thank you. I would like to point out, first of all, that this is the only ratification of today that not only needs our support, but deserves attention and yet deserves careful discussion. I understand that the main task is to have a secretariat in Ukraine, because, well, you have to understand that Ukraine is the country that owns the largest mass of the Carpathian region. That's the first one. The other one. All environmental disasters occur in the face of severe natural conditions in the Carpathian region of Ukraine. And that's why we are like no one, or Ukraine as no one interested in not just ratifying this agreement, but first of all, that it be implemented. This is the most important thing for us. And I would like the Ministry to commit itself to inform the National Deputies of the further ratification process, i.e. ratification, is a step, and the ratified agreement is still being implemented, and so I would like us to be informed in time about all the details of this process. I'd just like to be supported by the people's deputies. And I'd like to say a few more words. That, for example, Austria did not sign this agreement or ratify it. By the way, it has to sign and ratify, because Carpathians are part of the Alpine ecosystem, and to view the Carpathian region as being torn away from the Alpine region is simply inappropriate, and so we need to involve all countries that are interested in preventing technological, technological and essentially natural disasters in the process of signing the agreement. And what's probably bothering all those people in Carpathians who are now listening to the broadcast of the Supreme Council session, is the first question, question number one, is deforestation. We must, at least by means of this agreement, at least by involving international institutions of other nations stop the total destruction of the Carpathian forests, because Carpathians, first of all, are forests. Carpathians are primarily tourism, and forestless tourism is virtually impossible. And now there's a disgraceful situation in the Carpathians, where whole hectares are given for deforestation to unknown enterprises with a questionable reputation. It is now completely uncontrollable from various services and departments in Ukraine to cut down forests and, most importantly, to continue planting forests. Because an enterprise that takes over an area is responsible for planting forests. And even some plant it. But how? Are certain services involved? Lissotechnic services. It happens exactly like that with the sleeves down and the lonely ones down. That is why I would like to see control exercised here, both in Ukraine, of the planting of forests in the Carpathians and in the territories of those countries that are signatories to the agreement. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Mihowich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! The issue is the ratification of the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of the Carpathians. Yes, dead Carpathians, yes, killed Goverla, killed Parashka. What other convention is needed to meet these requirements? I have a Ukrainian newspaper called Time. It's very interesting right on the front of the picture of what was made, and it says, "Be careful, the esdeks in the woods." I'm addressing the minister. Please note what is now being done and, in particular, in this newspaper. I'll give it to you now, I'll give it to you. It's in the Chernobyl area. The same is true of the Lviv region, on the mountain of Paraska, on the mountain of Goverla. But not only the Carpathians can die. The whole of Ukraine could die if the Order, which is now being issued in 4105-P8, on the procedure for reviewing the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution, is voted on in general. I demand that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, be given that determination to the Scientific and Legal Department, because it was made by the ignorant legal authorities, despite the fact that there are many very serious signatures. It repeals the Constitution. This decree repeals the Rules. So I would like to look at it only after the conclusion of the profile committees, because the Carpathians are no longer going to die, but in general the whole of Ukraine and all the people who live here. Concerning project 0169. I believe that this convention needs to be supported and ratified. Moreover, Ukraine needs to show more offensive positions on conservation and on our leading role in this process. How many Carpathians there are in Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic, and Serbia. We have a major mass, so we have to ask the question. In general, Austria is not a member who would sign. On what basis do we still have to pay for our trips and so on? The money that deals with the question that there is a lot, 21,000 euros, is totally not the money that needs to be talked about, and they're coming from the Minecores, from their budget. We don't have to worry about it, it's already been voted out, and it's in the budget, it's in the budget. Therefore, I would like to request that this convention be ratified both in the first and second readings, and I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council, in view of the fact that we are now not given a draft decree in the morning, which undermines the Ukrainian public, to give us an order to study his Scientific Exp.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u172	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u173	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues, guests, and voters. The concept under discussion is essential, solid, promising. My fellow countrymen have high hopes for her. Carpentering has always been around different states and political regimes. Today, our unique land and hardworking people are once again a reservation in the center of Europe. A similar proportion of the population of this region in neighbouring countries, which are becoming East Fort Post of the European Union and NATO. Clearly, it will take great effort and resources to engage in noble purposes and creative potentials of concept. There are serious fears in this regard. Why? The fact is that in recent years, after the natural disasters that take place in Zakarpatta, the government has accepted the new program at all times and has failed to ensure that it is properly implemented. The last one is the regulation and protection of Tissa. It took 53 million dollars in recent years, with less than 25 percent allocated. For the current year, only 10 million dollars are allocated instead of the 80 million needed. In addition, the government withdrew funds from other programs. A water - strengthening program is under way, as we talked about recently. And I would very much like this program not to be met with the sad fate it had experienced before. Unfortunately, there is no chapter or article on how to deal with Carpathian's greatest disaster is poverty, unemployment, social illness. I cannot help but recall the barrier that has been put in place for humanitarian relations. Today, Western countries place an iron curtain for such connections, and this will naturally complicate the implementation of the convention’s objectives. Next. Public Carpathage is concerned about the incoherence and low involvement of government organizations in protecting the region from pollution by neighbouring countries. All are familiar with the frequent emissions of various chemical wastes, particularly from the Romanian side. However, nothing is done to prevent them. The protocol and other working papers on the implementation of the convention should identify specific obligations and forms of responsibility for violations of the Carpathian environment. As for the Secretariat, this is, I don't touch the financial side, but it would make sense, if you were to create a new organ, to put it right in the Carpathian region, where people could effectively study problems and quickly influence them. Finally, there is a need for parliamentary and public monitoring with a view to the implementation of this convention. Supporting its ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor. The time for discussion is up. Please speak for one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u175	Dear people's deputies, of course, we must understand that soil erosion, landslides at Zakarpata began because of political erosion. And really the political power that governs today at Zakarpatta should carry, I mean the party of SDPU(o) should bear political responsibility for what is happening today in this region. You know, we're not talking much about what really happened in Gutt, where unique forests have been cut down just to get the President to build his mansion, his residence. Instead, helipads, mountain trails for the chosen ones, appeared. And the same situation is happening today in a place where, at the easy hand of the head of the President's Administration, another dowry is being built. But for Kyiv's Dynamo, we know who it's built for. And of course, all of this should be the subject of consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we are all talking about Gutu Chenstokhov today, but we should first talk about Guta Ukrainian as a tragedy of Ukrainian Carpathians. And instead, we see that in Ukrainian villages, in Carpathians, children are taught in schools, in one class, in one room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u176	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We agreed, you asked for one minute, you had a turn. Please, one minute. You have rights when there is time, there is no time. In addition to your rights, you know your duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u177	I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u178	Calm down, everything's going according to the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u179	In the village of Oravičik, located in the Lviv region near Tisovec, children learn in one class -- the first, the second, the third, the fourth class together and go to the primary school, about 10 kilometers on foot, so unfortunately the so-called "school bus" remains a dream for these children. So I would like to say that I hope that the ratification of this convention will be able to solve, first of all, the social problems of the rich Carpathians and the people of Carpathians, first of all, have to be socially protected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the proposal of a committee of profile to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of Carpathian, registration number 0169. Please vote. [[13:30:39]] For 395 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let's call it a break, let me ask you the next question. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. So you want us to vote it out right away? Don't look, please. On the Conciliation Board, dear colleagues, we agreed that the proposals would be processed. Well, please calm down, please. Well, I'll call it a night, call it a day, I said I'll call it a day. On the Conciliation Council yesterday at 15 o’clock, a decision was taken that supported ten factions, in total more than 300 national deputies, that the Temporary Special Commission would consider how bills for amending the Constitution would be considered. And when she looks at it and makes the right proposals, we're going to include that in the agenda and we're going to look at it. Well, I'm gonna call it a night, so let me finish. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the procedure for considering and adopting the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution, please vote. I'll call it a break. Calm down. After the question has been discussed. For what reason is the break? Calm down, please. I'm going to call it a break. I'm going to call it a day. [[13:32:17]] For 284 Solomatin from the procedure. And who else raised their hand? And Osaka. I'm gonna call it a night, so calm down. Well, you've been to the Conciliation Council. Why you?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u181	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We've wasted enough time this morning. So I'm proposing to continue the morning session for one hour, until 15 hours, and I'm asking you to put this proposal to a vote. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! I'm going to call it a night! I put to the vote the offer of Yuri Solomatin, please vote, continue to work for 15 hours. [[13:33:15.]] For 275 For - 270. Decision taken. There's a 30-minute recess, the heads of the MPs and the factions, please meet in the Head's office. We'll continue our work at 2.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u183	If we ask for a seat, we will continue. Dear colleagues, take your seats. We'll continue our sessions. Please, on behalf of the factions who took the break, who the Turkov, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u184	Dear National Deputies! The faction "Our Ukraine" and "The Block of July" Timoshenko took a break from the fact that regulations were passed on to the hall, which were particularly contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. It is a decree signed by Deputy Gavrish and other representatives of the MPs, which contradicts the Constitution in relation to the proposal to vote in case the Constitution is not adopted. I would like to remind you that article 158 of the Constitution says that in the case of non-admission of the Constitutional Law, he has no right to enter the Hall for a year is the first. It's different. These positions, which today propose to vote on the TSC, do not in any way regulate the mechanism for ensuring the personal voting of the national MPs. Therefore, our faction turns to the faction of the majority and those who support them, to resolve these issues without knowingly violating the Constitution, and to vote willfully against making factories or forging votes. That is exactly what we are asking you to do, and we ask you not to bring the situation into conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! Now at the Conciliation Council meeting, at the Conciliation Council we have this agreement we have four draft decrees of the Ukrainian people's deputies. [[I'll tell you about the law.]] Each of those who want to report the draft decree will be given three minutes to report. I would like to stress once again what draft regulations are in order of their submission: the decision of the People's Deputy Catherinechuk, the ruling of the People's Deputy of Moroz, the ruling of the People's Deputies of Shevchuk and the draft decision made today by a group of National Deputies members of the Temporary Special Commission. After the report, three minutes for a question to the interrogators. After that, for 20 minutes, we're discussing these draft regulations. After the discussion, we will take the order of the draft decrees, and we will vote on each individual decree. It was about what the People’s Assadchev offered, and his proposal was about the law. The Conciliation Council has now come to this conclusion: indeed, the process of amending the Basic Law has, unfortunately, been virtually unregulated to date, except for the two articles of the thirteenth chapter of the Constitution, where it is said that they should be previously approved, reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court and so on and so forth. So this bill, this law is extremely relevant, and we certainly need to adopt such a law. Today, however, this is not about the law as a whole, the specific Act on Amendments to the Constitution, and you and I are considering draft regulations on specific changes to the Constitution on a single application, and we are referring to registration number 4104. That's the order we're going to be in, that's the order we're going to be in. Asadchev's procedure. Please sign in. Assadchev, and sign in, three minutes out of procedure. Please, it's Assadchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u186	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to emphasize why I had introduced the law. Because according to article 92, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, it is stated that the organization and order of the activities of the Supreme Council are governed solely by laws. Article 19 states that the authorities of the State, including the Supreme Council, and local authorities, and officials are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws. Therefore, the question of making changes to the Constitution cannot be regulated by regulations. It must be an exclusive law. And today we've included in the agenda, not the question of 4,101, but the whole question of reviewing changes and changes to the Constitution. So I very much ask my bill that registered under number 5362 also include it and put it on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u187	Once again, dear colleagues. This bill is sent to the relevant committees of profile, it is being considered and it will be considered and in accordance with the incorporation procedure. And most of all. And Valery Assadchev, and all the people's deputies, and the radio listeners, I emphasize that we will be amending the Constitution of Ukraine with you in law on changes to the Constitution. If we take a decision today, you and I will have to vote on the law. It's not a decree, it's a law amending the Constitution. Here, we will clearly adhere to the Constitution. Yes, please, three minutes out of the procedure. I'm a gmirja. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u188	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I, in part, disagree with you and fully agree with Deputy Assadchev. What is it? Well, I guess we don't have a clear procedure for amending the Constitution, except for two articles of the Constitution. The Constitution is a direct act and if the legislator has not found it necessary to make more detailed amendments, that is enough to approve a procedure, as we would like to do, and to vote on changes to the Constitution. Therefore, to say that some additional documents are needed today to block the adoption, the constitutional process, I think that is not entirely correct. Let us therefore take appropriate decisions, establish a procedure for dealing with the issue, and then, as you say, adopt specific laws to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u189	Please, Turkov. Follow him, Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! Everybody knows that most TSCs have taken over not only the functions of all the committees together taken by the Supreme Council, but also the leadership of the Supreme Council, and says when we should include bills, when to exclude and so on. I have a question for you, Adam Ivanovich. We were given a final ruling today, which, as I said earlier, in speaking out of the rostrum is contrary to the Constitution. Well, the TSC can't assume the function of expert departments, legal departments of the Supreme Council. Why do we not add to the conclusions of the relevant structures regarding this decision? Because we can't embarrass ourselves with such unprocessed documents. And the next question, Adam Ivanovich. Why is this decision given at the time of the vote? I understand that the TSC did not take on the function and the final regulatory body of the Supreme Council. Why did these decrees not pass any other agency? And why do they give out on the day of the vote? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u191	I'm giving the Turk an answer. Fortunately you were at the Conciliation Council meeting and you know what's agreed there, and I think that's what we're going to decide in the session room and the comments you're making right now, I think they're going to be settled. It's important. Dear National Deputies! I remind you that the Temporary Special Commission did not take up these issues on its own. By appropriate decree, the Supreme Council commissioned the Temporary Special Commission to proceed to the session hall and make the appropriate decision. And this appropriate decision by a group of national deputies, which was considered today at the meeting of the Temporary Special Commission, and in this case the Temporary Special Commission serves as a profile committee. Here we absolutely follow the rules of the Rules without violating anything. Please, Mr. Cranwell. I can't see. Well, then, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u192	Yes! Yes! Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u193	Is it? Please. Aah! I'm not used to you being on the left. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u194	Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs. Let's just stick to the Constitution and not turn it all into a complete mess. The interim commission of inquiry, the TSC, introduced a draft regulation, which is already strictly unconstitutional. Paragraph 7 foresees a procedure that is contrary to the Constitution's rules of amendment to the Constitution and provides for a system of repealing the bill, rejecting the bill after it has not been voted out -- this is absolute absurdity, but for those who still want those constitutional changes to go through, and have been really implemented, I just want you to throw one thing out of your mind, or do not do it in a special way to then admit to unconstitutional, the fact itself, accepting these changes and then putting yourself in a fool's way or admit something that is convenient to someone. Let's work properly in a democratic regime. If you have 300 votes, do not hide them, but work honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u195	Thank you. That's exactly how we're going to work. I would ask that you not discuss draft regulations that we have not yet heard. Now we're going to listen to draft regulations, we're going to discuss them, and we're going to define them, including those proposals, we're going to determine, and they're going to agree on the Conciliation Council, as Turkinov, Crnowil, talked about, including others. Yeah, that's it. We're three minutes out, please. His draft decree number 5067 is represented by the national deputy Catherinechuk. Please, three minutes. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u196	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. For your consideration, I propose my order to consider draft laws on changes to the Constitution. My order is in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Ukraine, and it practically reflects paragraph 3, 3.5.4.1 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, which provides for a complete procedure for considering changes to the Constitution when it is considered in the session hall. In my opinion, as long as there is no Supreme Council Rules Act, we can deal with this issue in a temporary manner with bills for amending the Constitution. My order presupposes in the second reading, and we believe that there was no prior approval of changes to the Constitution, but the previous reading still provides for consideration of the issue in an article-by-article manner that was also not 24 numbers. My ruling proposes a second reading of the bill to be held in the next session. In the second question, it is an articleic vote. And in the absence of 300 votes in accordance with article 158 of the Constitution, this question cannot be considered over the course of the year. Discussion of the bill. I propose the following order: a report by the initiators of the bill - within 30 minutes, according to the committee head - 30 minutes, answers to each reporter and co-reporter - 60 minutes, 20 minutes' speeches by the Main Committee, the initiators' statements. and teaching questions - five minutes, one representative from the profile committee - up to 15 minutes, statements by the heads of the MPs and the MPs - up to 30 minutes, a speech by the President of Ukraine, no time limit, speeches by the national deputies - up to 5 minutes, a closing statement by the co-rapporteur - up to 15 minutes, a closing word - up to 20 minutes. Why am I doing this so much, let's say, I'm giving you this situation very carefully. This is a complete order of changes to the Constitution. These are the changes that will predict the direction of this nation's development for 10 years. I want the people of Ukraine to hear, these changes that you're proposing, both under an imperative mandate, and to extend the powers of the Prosecutor to 37 years, and on other issues that are set out in this bill. And the main thing in my bill is to deny the possibility of falsifying the charges, is to vote by the people's deputies by standing up, and he calls himself "yes," "against" or "restraint." After that, after voting after each article, each national MP and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u197	Please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u198	The Regulatory Committee, through an electronic voting system, checks the number and presence of the national deputies who voted. And then it goes to the new article. I think that only in this way, open, loud, when all the arguments can be heard in this room can we just respond to these changes that we accept in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u199	Please, Mikolo Dmitrovic, stand in the rostrum. You may have some questions. Any questions? Please sign up. Light up, please. Three minutes. Please, Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u200	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u201	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, please tell me, when the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted, did all the articles vote at the same time, on the block, or on each article? Here's another question. Is it possible to violate and consider additions to the Constitution in order to have an article-by-article consideration or with a block when the Constitution was considered in a different way? So explain how the Constitution was adopted. And that's where the question comes out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u202	I think your question is entirely in the context of the determination that I made and registered in Alexander Frost's session room. The Constitution has been adopted in an articleistic manner, and only the individuality allows for a qualitative consideration of the issue and the understanding of society, which the national MPs insist on. And I'm convinced that most of the amendments that are now being proposed are not beneficial to society's development towards democracy. And I want every national MP to make his argument, to make his argument, to the author of the bill, we could ask questions to each of the authors and get answers. And the people of Ukraine need to understand what we are going through because of these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u203	Please, Gunner. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u204	The miner, the faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mikola Dmitrovich, I have listened carefully to your bill, it is quite clear and clear. But we've been given the Supreme Council Order by the signatures of a number of deputies, faction leaders, and unlike what Adam Ivanovich says, it says otherwise. It says here that in accordance with that decree, Bill No. 4105 is due to be voted on tomorrow, i.e. the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution. Therefore, the decree does not allow for deletions or additions. I would ask you to comment on the content of this bill. How is it different from yours and why is it not allowed to be accepted not by the Constitution, but by any legislation at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u205	The thing is, I completely share your concern about the bill they tabled. This bill became, let's say, the basis for adoption by the Temporary Special Commission. I think you know that most members of the Temporary Special Commission have, let's say, their preference for voting. And this bill, let's say, is different from my bill in many cities, because if we don't have an article vote and a discussion of this issue in previous approval, let's at least fight for the quality of this bill as a whole. I think the authors of this bill are afraid that they don't have 300 votes, and they're afraid that national MPs will ask questions that won't be convenient. I think they are afraid to give a direct answer to the people of Ukraine where they are leading by these changes to the Constitution our society. And I think, unfortunately, this is not an example of democratic parliamentaryism that we are looking for and declaring today that we are moving towards democracy, in general, my assessment that it is sufficient, let's say, to cynically violate the Constitution and the Ukrainian Rules. And in my opinion, he doesn't deserve even the attention of the session room, but if this legislative initiative is taken by the Temporary Special Commission, I think you can still ask the person who will report this bill during the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u206	Mikola Dmitrovitch, please, shorter answers, I announced school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u207	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! I would like to ask the honourable reporter, first of all, what we need to understand is that we are now discussing draft regulations that decide how we should change the Constitution. And of course, I don't have any warnings about your bill and it would be worth supporting. I think I doubt it will pass through this room, because here they will vote not for quality, but for the political affiliation of the author who will report it. But just like a national deputy, like a lawyer. In a decree signed by virtually all the leaders of the majority faction and the Communist Party and so on. There is the phrase: “In the event of a failure by the Supreme Council during its 5th session, any decision on the bill shall be regarded as rejected”. In a language that is clear, that is, amendments to the Constitution can be made until they are introduced. It is I who do not know the abuse of common sense and the Constitution itself, over the Supreme Council Rules, that I would like to hear just your assessment. What we've been given as national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u208	Thank you for asking. Indeed, article 158 of the Constitution does not allow it to be placed in the order of the day before a year after this issue has been rejected. But I think there's going to be a direct disregard for the rules of the Constitution. I think this week is "Fearful" is religious, so I think not only will Isus be impaled, let's say this week, but our Constitution. I'm sure you can't do that. And I'd go to the authors of this bill -- let's say, let's say, these points that, well, they don't really allow us to think that it's the Constitution. It seems that we are talking about some ordinary law or budget that, you see, has already been adopted in the way that the Rules were broken, and neither the national MPs were able to respond to the content of the document, nor anyone else. And now these phenomena are being passed on to the Constitution. And I'm convinced that if we don't intervene and we don't turn to the meaningful part of the changes that are being proposed, and I'm not convinced that everyone here in this room understands that this is the procurator's mandate in the 37th year. You need to understand what this will lead to. And you'll see what happens to your business and to your people who will be there. I understand that there is a need for order regarding corruption, both in the courts and in others. But this is not done by expanding the powers of the prosecutor’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u209	Mikola Dmitrovitch, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u210	I propose to support my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u211	Thank you. Bill number 4105-p6, author of the bill Sergey Volodymyrovich Shevchuk. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u212	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. When it comes to political reform, many of us use the term "permissiveness", "historic moment", and that's absolutely true, because political reform, in large accounts, is a different, Ukrainian path, which is different, from the path that Russia, Belarus, Turkmenistan and other Asian republics have chosen. But in understanding this, we must likewise understand that we must do political reform perfectly. And to make changes to the Basic Law -- and to do so in a transparent, open, respectful manner, with respect for our fellow citizens. There are positive examples to be mentioned when we passed two laws on the election of deputies: Parliament and local councils. We followed procedures and adopted these laws. Why, then, do we reject the need for the adoption of a perfect Law, the adoption of changes to the Basic Law? The draft regulation proposes that the consideration and adoption of the Ukrainian law amending the Constitution of Ukraine be carried out through an article-by-article discussion and an article-by-article vote, and the adoption of a bill in general by at least two thirds of the deputies from the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. The project sets out a sufficiently clear argument as to the time and procedure involved in the reports of the Heads of State, the National Deputies, and the factions within the reasonable time needed for this discussion. The most important point is the final act, the adoption of changes to the Basic Law as a whole. In our view, it must be a special procedure and it has a way of voting here in the session room using name cards directly in front of your eyes, in front of the media and openly and openly. We can also talk about our failed example when we passed an important law of 4,000-1, which was adopted without discussion, and none of the deputies were able to make any adjustments. You know the fate of this law -- the President vetoed it. I wouldn't want us to take one of the most important legislative acts in our nation's life as quickly as possible. In addition, our colleagues, our fellow deputies, the councils of various levels, who also offered proposals for our draft decision, would like to see in Parliament a model of their representative function. So I propose to take the draft regulation as the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u213	Please sign in. Sergey Volodymyrovich, stay in the rostrum. Sign up. Yes, please light up for three minutes. Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u214	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear reporter! Your draft ruling is proposed, so I understand that every amendment, you suggest, took two thirds of the head. If so, do you think you can make any changes to the Constitution at all, if there are any amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u215	It is suggested that not every amendment, but every article will be discussed in detail by listening to the opinion, both in favour and against clear arguments, and later by voting through the "Council" system, which is to receive 2/3 from the constitutional composition of the national MPs. The draft also proposes to apply the Rules for intermittent announcements. This will allow us to further reconcile the positions that exist today. And, frankly, if there is now some clarity as to what is the political agreement between the factions of the vast majority of this House, why fear such a more perfect procedure, why discuss this important legislative act in a single moment and without clear reasoning?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u216	Please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u217	Dear reporter! First of all, I am grateful to you for, indeed, a dignified draft of a decree that does not conflict with the rules of the Constitution or the Rules or any principles of common sense. I have one question. As I recall, in your ruling, the final result is the vote by name ballots in the hall. Does this predict that each MP will be individually called and followed, then only the next MP, because otherwise we have had examples of how they played a role, not in the hall, but outside the hall, of the congregation there with certain ballot papers. Is this problem resolved or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u218	That's right, my dear fellow. The project foresees that the ballots will take place in the session room. We wanted to avoid this vicious practice that you all know when it occurs, if you gently say, the parliamentary grandfather, when the ballot papers are gathered by the leaders of the political forces and later the fate of their members is not known to the general masses. I'd like us in this alphabetic room to call a national MP, fill out a ballot and throw in a transparent box. A transparent box, by the way, is scheduled for voting on local council elections and voting for parliament. Let's start with our Parliament, let's show this example.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u219	Please, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u220	Mikhailo Kosov, "Our Ukraine", the Reform and Order Party. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, we should really thank you for writing it out so carefully. Really, I want to, so I want to point out that only such a voting mechanism that you've offered by name ballots in this room can provide a real picture of the vote. I am one of those who participated in the adoption of the Constitution, which we are now making changes to, and that is how we voted for each article. So there was the Constitutional Night, which was over some articles, especially those that we made changes, and there were reconciliations, contentions, and so forth, for a long time. But my last question. And do you at least know what tomorrow's option is for the vote? Because I'm not sure, for example, I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u221	Thank you. One argument about the roll-call vote is that you all remember very well how the vote of the Proportional Elections Act was carried out, when in this room the majority of computers, except the two on the side, did not work in the last two or three votes. This is a system that, unfortunately, is not immune to external influences. As for the text, as a member of the interim constitutional commission, I must inform you that there will be an additional session of the TSC, where the final text will be processed, which will be distributed later to the national deputies. Today I have not seen the same text as you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u222	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill number 4105-P5 Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u223	Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. Obviously, the content of the draft decision that I am introducing for the consideration of the Supreme Council is not worth commenting on, because it is practically in line with the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure and differs from the procedures regulated only by the specific consideration of the document itself. So I think the main thing in this case is not the voting procedure, but the point is that we're going to vote. And that's why I strongly reject the proposal from the project recommended for consideration by the Supreme Council that no additions to the project are allowed, no removals either. This is totally contrary to the logic of our bill. And that means that the Supreme Council wants to raise its hands before the Constitutional Court's inventions, which it seems to have said in 1998 that every coma needs a separate consideration and approval and all the procedure defined during the two sessions of the Supreme Council. That's not true. The indictment is not subject to the Constitutional Court’s decision to comply with article 157, 158 of the Constitution of those projects that are intended for its consideration. All of it. Furthermore, if we can improve this document by, inter alia, preserving existing articles of the Constitution, it has the right to do so and is bound to do so by the Supreme Council, since it is a legislative body. And it cannot be ruled by the Constitutional Court or anyone, the President or anyone else. So I think this is totally unacceptable. Let's move on. The bill and the regulation. Everything depends on it, it's all tied up. So we need to agree in a way that both "Our Ukraine," and most, and communists, and socialists, are voting for the changes that are needed today for society, not for today's system of power, not for today's regime or for those who are in need of their own, going or not, or taking part in the presidential campaign. I think that's what we should be guided by. The possibility is not lost to find such a compromise. And it must be used. Then there'll be an effect. It's about procedure. We suggest that we do not resort to any specific ideas regarding voting control. I mean, the ballots here on the stand, set up the rostrum and everything. But you know, these technologies have already gone into practice in places and here so many times that it just means control over the faction or the faction manager as well as the voter. So vote the way the Constitution was adopted in the sessional hall with cards. If we settle for 400 votes, there will be no doubt about it. What's more, relative to the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u225	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I have rightly understood your position when you presented your draft that, no matter what bill will be passed, you are personally prepared to continue working on constitutional reform, no matter what procedure of consideration and adoption will be adopted? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u226	You didn't quite get me. I think the procedure has to match the content of what we're looking at. And there should be no attempt to outsmart each other. We need to make a clear, transparent vote. There was a question about the particular article vote. You can vote in an articleic manner, if we all do it, it doesn't cause any alarm, but you can predict another procedure, and you can write it down, it takes 15 minutes. If we agree on a compromise, then the bill can be considered as a whole, so as not to destroy the balance it has in place and the balance between the bill and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u227	Yes, please, Bespaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u228	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I think you agree with the mine and the position of our faction that all changes to the Constitution, regardless of their content, should be made by constitutional procedure. That's the first one. The other one. Your draft ruling, it really does fit the Rules in general. And I think in terms of reality, because most of you didn't support it yesterday, and you said yes, and they didn't vote, it's unlikely that it will pass. Most likely, 4105/P8, which is anti-constitutional. Well, at least his first paragraph directly says that the Constitution of Ukraine will be followed, taking into account the features of the regulation. That is, the decision itself repeals the Constitution. So my question is, will you, your faction, vote for 4,105 on the anti-constitutional procedure, if a project that the Communists and the majority are doing is going through? Will you participate in these anticonstitutional games or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u229	Dear Boris Yakovovich, I don't care that I wasn't supported by the majority yesterday, I'm concerned that you didn't support me yesterday. And that raises a lot of questions. [[Applause]] If I spent the night in the President's Office with Eugene Gorenik, and he accuses me of useless or unnecessary things yesterday, I ask him: "What makes him feel that way?" And with regard to voting today, I am. I'm asking for your attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say that we've made our draft decision and we're going to insist that it be considered, even though it can be changed, depending on whether we're going to go through a compromise bill or not with you and with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u230	Yes, please sit down, Alexander Alexander. For the submission of Bill No. 4105-P.8, Gavrish, co-chair of the Temporary Special Commission, is given the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! During many meetings, the Temporary Special Commission discussed the possibility of moving to a discussion on the procedure for amending the Constitution today at a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission on the basis of a three-hour discussion, we have decided to propose to you a draft decision that I will now present as a basis. The point is that, in the broadest possible democratic procedure for discussing this bill, the Supreme Council should be asked, in accordance with Article 155 of the Constitution, to hold a non-artificial vote, but one consolidated vote based on the voting of a bill previously approved by the Supreme Council is finally approved in the next session. Next, we think that, in this case, we also need to understand that any changes to the Constitution will require the return of this bill to the stage of prior approval. So the vote is 226 votes. This is not limited to articles 150 and 152 of the Constitution, which state that the decision of the Constitutional Court is binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on all citizens. And it is not an accusation, but it is said at the same time that a violation of the bill's procedure for amending the Constitution may lead the Constitutional Court to find it unconstitutional and repeal it by its decision. So there are substantial risks, the discussions around which changes can be made to this 4,105 text, more so that on February 3 on the basis of the very large part of the opposition that today is protesting against making changes to the Constitution, we held an extraordinary session and supported those proposals that were made. First of all, it's the election of the President in general. The other one. We refused to elect judges every 10 years, and we left a valid standard for the permanent election of judges. With regard to the discussion about eight points that were proposed as compromise, so that they could be included in our dialogue and be the reason for the changes to the Constitution. Among them are those who require their own writing of the new text, but most of them are indeed removals, so this issue is a matter of the Supreme Council, in fact, but it comes upon the decision of the Constitutional Court of June 9, 1998, which states that any amendment made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires the return of this bill to the Constitutional Court and the subject of submission is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is a discussion on paragraph 9, the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, which states that the return to the current Constitution is not a change to the Constitution, but, at the same time, the Constitutional Court can only conclude. So we're proposing this motion for a ruling as one that has received most of the votes of the members of the Temporary Special Commission, except.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u232	Thank you. Please, can I ask you a question? Sign up. Please, three minutes. Kenzier. Behind him, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u233	Dear reporter, well, according to your project, the previous MPs have already been quoted here. I'm interested in asking you a different question. Do you, as a Galician, as a Christian born in a very fine Christian orderly family, not feel that you are now leading the Constitution on crucifixion on Holgoff, as Christ was once led to Holgoff? Are you today, on Easter Day, not feeling this way and going this way firmly to the end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u234	You know, most people didn't understand Christ why he chose this Golgofu. Dear colleagues, I think my position is in the position of head of the Temporary Special Commission, who is tasked with giving you the opportunity to assess the proposal of most members of the Temporary Special Commission. I would like to request that this draft ruling be voted out in favour of the deletion of the words in paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council Regulation of Ukraine, which were technically wrongly incorporated into this text and deleted by the decision of the Temporary Special Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u235	Yes, please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u236	Fucking Communist faction. I have no doubt that both the findings of the Constitutional Court and the conclusion that we do not generally violate legislation by a two-thirds vote are being upheld here. But I do have doubts about why the Constitutional Court forbids us to amend those that are not different from those laid down in the Constitution today. And please explain the situation: if the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not adopted during its 5th session of any legislative decision, it is considered rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u237	That's it. The Constitution requires that if we do not make a change during this session, this bill will be rejected. This is an absolute constitutional regulatory position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u238	Yes, Andrew School. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u239	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you two questions. First of all, your attitude towards the Constitution. You are, after all, a representative of the Supreme Council, as you and I are members of the higher legislature. There is a 158 article in the Constitution that regulates the voting of amendments to the Constitution once a session. All of it. The following changes are made to the next session. The same bill states that if the Supreme Council did not accept it during its 5th session, any decision on the bill would be rejected. I mean, it's thought that as long as there's not a certain number of votes, he can vote. That's the first one. The other one. We'd like to see, well, really where are the lists to be published or at least somehow brought to the attention of the national MPs who had previously approved the draft Constitution. I just wish I could see and know. This secret information. Well, first of all, the view of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u240	Thank you. Part three of article 7 is based on the fact that we're not going to consider a bill amending the Constitution during the fifth session, it's going to be considered as being rejected. He is not counting on us not to vote or vote on his text. As far as lists are concerned, this question is now, I think, and we're looking at another problem, but at the same time, there are, they're on the Parliamentary Majority Coordination Board. And I did not pass them on to anyone because they did not enter into a regulatory decision at the time regarding the adoption of changes to the Constitution at the stage of prior approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u241	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich, time is up. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We need to conclude our consideration of this issue, so we need to continue working until the issue is resolved. I put the vote to continue the work of the Supreme Council until the matter is closed, please vote. We can't stop the question. [[14:58:35]] For 274 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who were enrolled for the talks. We don't vote. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Then you'll come up with a motive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatolyevich, please speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats. I say once again, stick to ethics, I tell you one more time, stick to ethics, I say again, normal, human. I'm acting in accordance with the Rules. The question must be completed. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] It'll be a separate thought. Well, there'll be a separate thought, after that, I said. Before the vote, there will be a separate opinion. Well, what are you doing? Let's move on to the discussion. Let's have 15 minutes to talk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u242	Well, calm down. Well, let's speak with a separate mind. Now there's, uh, that's it. Calm down, come on. Please. Well, come on. How much do we need to discuss? 20 minutes enough? That's enough. All of it. Please. And we agreed for 20 minutes, so Adam Ivanovich tells me. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u243	Stop the timer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u244	Yeah, stop the timer. Please start the countdown for Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u245	Can I?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u246	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u247	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! You can see how, by repealing the Rules, a violation of the law, constitutional law, a national MP, who is also a person for a break, rape takes place for some rest, destruction and destruction of the legal field of the Ukrainian State takes place. All of this is done by methods, brutal methods, that were carried out back in 1937. You, Stepan Bogdanovich, have hidden not only the lists, but you have hidden the bill itself, which is the bill that we're talking about, because, which was in the left and right columns, which were voted on by hands, was not put on demand by the people's deputies. And so am I. We raised this question before the head of the Constitutional Court, Celivon. What? He promised me by the end of that week, when we were talking, that he would give me this project. This project didn't come to us. He was hidden here. So we have a bill hidden from the people of Ukraine, hidden from the people of Ukraine, lists and still untraceable only plans that you want to make. These plans are clearly outlined in Bill 4105-P8, by a decree signed by Gavrish, Bogatyrov, Happochka, Evdocim, Kuras, Martinyuk, Anishuk, Osika, Potapiv, Simonenko, Shufrich, Yoffe. Why? I asked you today to give your word out of procedure, because Martinyuk is one of the authors of this ruling. And today he was in charge of this procedure. Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. This decision, proposed by P8, proposes to put any number of times in the session this bill. This comes out of paragraph 8 of this regulation, look closely. This bill annuls the right provided for in article 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine that it can only be submitted once and not later than a year after the decision has been taken. This is the direct norm of the Constitution. To the honor of the Constitutional Court, I would like to say that there are other judges, such as Mr. Sovenko, who gave his separate opinion, which clearly states that it is totally illegal to bring this bill before the Constitutional Court and those disagreements that are coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u248	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u249	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there was a great deal of noise here about the fact that the temporary special commission had no right to do so or to do so. I want to remind all these loudspeakers, but most of all, our radio listeners are in line with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on temporary special commissions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine may create temporary special commissions for the development, prior consideration, drafting of laws and other acts of the Supreme Council. And the second. A temporary special commission is always the main commission on the question to be prepared. Therefore, it should not be said over and over again that it seemed as though it had not been considered in the profiling committees. It is the temporary special commission that is the most competent and authoritative body on the basis of the question that stands in the order of the day and which is tolerable. The other one. I want to say more about that. Many mentioned that they had not been able to make another thousand amendments and discuss them. Well, don't fool people, Your Honor. Because there have been so many different tables, round and square, and others to discuss all of the provisions of the reform. That the essence of this reform has become clear, and even the last little Ukrainian is somewhere where you like to refer to it so much, he understands that the essence of political reform is to transfer power from a particular individual to more responsible political parties. And the third. You don't have to turn into an active democracy, even a bourgeois one you love so much, into a revelry of democracy, when forms and procedures destroy the content of the question. I want to tell you one more time, when of your 120 deputies who go into two blocks yesterday, your amendments were only 20, 30, at most 60, where is your discipline? Where is your inner democracy? You're just stalling, you're wasting your time. Shame on you! And the last. So I propose to support the draft regulation 4105/P8, the authors of the 12 national MPs, the leaders of the MP factions who are in favour of political reform. I want to thank all those who have made an effort to do this sacred work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u250	Thank you. Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u251	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I went to this rostrum to express a separate opinion. I made my own point in writing and handed it to Mr. Adam Martinyuk. I say this because you know that this ruling cannot be voted on in general in this room, it can, in the extreme case of gross violation, only be voted on the basis of allowing the people's deputies to make proposals to improve this decision. I'm saying, in writing, these proposals are from Adam Martinyuk. And we'll see how the communists will defend the interests of the Mafia or the interests of our Constitution. This project is generally contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. It is not possible to regulate changes to the Constitution by decree. This is prohibited by the Constitution, in particular Chapter 13, which contains a procedure for amending the Constitution. The Constitutional Court’s decision similarly states that clarification of the procedure for amending the Constitution is possible only by law. By the way, the bill was submitted to Assadchev, but it was not put forward for consideration by the interim commission. Instead, the TSC was looking at unsigned paper, unregistered paper, and today it is given to you with a backlog of signed names for consideration. What does this talk about? This suggests that the Temporary Special Commission, the leadership of the Supreme Council, is engaged in shucking, petty hooliganism in this room. The draft regulation itself contains a number of provisions that conflict with the Constitution. How do you like the words that the consideration and adoption of the bill should take into account the features set out in this decree? We are offered to change the Constitution by decree. We've had our say, dear friends, when they're clearly violating the Constitution, and you're going to vote in favour. I'm talking to the majors: show your character. I don't go to the Communists, it's clear that the fee is waiting and you have to hurry to get the fee for the mafia's interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u252	I'm asking you to stick to ethics.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u253	You've been offered, offered to pass laws and regulations on a specific bill that you haven't seen in your eyes. They tell you, let's look at it and you haven't seen the bill. Can we let that happen in a democratic state? If this decree is to correspond to the consideration of a bill amending the Constitution, is it likely to change a number of provisions of the Rules in ad hoc? This means that all deviations from the Rules should be voted on. So the draft decrees were supposed to specify specific rules of the Rules that proposed to be amended, and there was nothing, again, for what? This is done to continue the policy of the coup d’état in the Supreme Council. This is done to ensure that this trade between the left, especially the communists and the oligarchy, is realized and no one sees what the Constitution is about, the dirty democracy, the main interests of the mafia. Here's what's going on in the hall today. I object to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u254	Boris Jakovič Bespalij, faction of Our Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u255	Victor Yuschenka's block of "Our Ukraine" Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners. I'd like to say a few words about the favorite project that was introduced by the side of the 'communists', so first of all, what we're insisting is that it vote only on the basis. The other one. The first paragraph of this regulation proposes to consider and adopt a bill amending the Constitution in accordance with the Constitution itself, taking into account the features of the regulation. In other words, the first point of its decision is that the block of "communists with Communists" actually cancels the Constitution, it's the final, it's a complete apopheus of another, it's a waste. I want to ask you, my dear fellows, whether you've been finally challenged by a mania of greatness, when by your determination you're simply abolishing the Constitution, maybe because it's about chapter 13, which seems to you to be unhappy, it's really miserable while you're ruling in this country. Next question. You propose to introduce the text of the bill to the Supreme Council for its consideration. So the text isn't in yet -- it's already in the vote, and it's not out of the question. With regard to the article vote. Recall the budget you accepted when you refused to vote. For this budget, I don't know who's blushing anymore. You have imposed a tax on the added value of medicine, on bread, on spiritual bread: on newspapers, on magazines published in Ukraine. And now you want to change the Constitution in the same way. Next question. Well, I may even have been in a hurry to say that the apopheus of absurdity is the first point, because there's still a seventh point completely, well, I don't know how even from the parliamentary rostrum to characterize it. What is he talking about? He speaks of the right of the majority, that is, the bushmen with the Communists, to rape all Ukraine as much as it wants. That is, if their bill fails tomorrow, and it certainly fails, they have the right to put it to a second vote, the fifth, the tenth, the hundred and the million, until it has enough button and money. And despite the fact that the Constitution expressly prohibits six months from going back to a project that has been completely rejected. [[Article 158]] Where does such unconstitutional, disrespect for the Constitution come from? I think it's coming from here that if, for Ukrainian patriots, the Constitution of Ukraine is a sacred document for which not one generation of communists have been put on their heads, then for the patriots with communists, people, for the bushmen, it's a piece of paper that's stained with paint. So get your filthy hands off the Constitution!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u256	Alexander Turchinov, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question: why, yesterday and this morning, do the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers call on MPs who didn't vote in favour of proportional laws that don't belong to the opposition, start intimidating them, start blackmailing them, start bribing them? I want to ask: maybe this is how the President and Medvedchuk worry about our Ukraine being a parliamentary republic. Or are they concerned about the greater democratization of our country? Answer yourself, fellow believers, especially those who consider themselves to be opposition deputies. No, it's not. They only care about one thing — how to stay in power. And that's why they're in a hurry, feeling like the ground's coming down from under their feet. They feel that another day or two and no other MP who has the dignity will vote for the dirt that is being put to the vote today. That's why, dear colleagues, today and tomorrow, there will be an attempt to prolong the life of the Kuchma regime, to continue without national elections, without the will of our people. Next question, dear colleagues. I address the Head of the Supreme Council. Why do we break the Rules again? Why do we now consider the issue without having the right? I will remind you that only during the morning session can the Supreme Council continue its work and it was extended for an hour. We're working on committees now. And no decision of the Supreme Council to cancel work on Wednesday's committees was taken. The Supreme Council did not make such decisions. Therefore, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, we demand that we stop violating the Rules and allow members to work on committees, and continue to discuss these bills tomorrow with a view to making decisions in accordance with the Rules and the Constitution, because any decision that is now being taken will be contrary to the Rules, i.e. it will be illegal. And the next. With regard to the TSC’s directly proposed decision. My colleagues had already talked about this, and I said in a reply that it contradicted the Constitution. There is no right for either the TSC or any other commission or group of deputies to repeal the Constitution. That's the first one. Secondly, in addition to canceling the 7th paragraph of this ruling, we demand that we have a clear opportunity to test those present in the Chamber of Deputies. Each MP should personally vote for the things that affect Ukraine’s fate. I'll remind you that this is not just a requirement that we propose to include in any decision that will be voted on, it's a requirement of the Rules, a requirement that there is a proposal of a faction that the chairman is obliged to. [[Article 3.1.6]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u258	Dear colleagues! I want to respond to Alexander Turkinov's performance here. First. I'm not making the decision. I've asked the Supreme Council, the session hall, to give me the authority to form the agenda. This decision was made by two Conciliation Councils. And there was a meeting of the Conciliation Council, Alexander Valentinovich, and you saw everything that was the result of the vote on this issue. As for the calls to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, I was not summoned to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, and you know my position from all the bills. I'm not taking up your time, and you're not paying any attention. Read the Rules, it's in your hands. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, to prepare Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u259	Thank you. I would, of course, like to say a few words to describe this 4105. You see, the seventh paragraph here is not consistent with the Constitution, and it's anti-constitutional accordingly, it's said not only by the national MPs, but also by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. There on the table in the Presidium is the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Plus, on the same Conciliation Council that we have here very often replaces the entire Supreme Council, but there was still a discussion and a decision was made that, if we vote, except for the seventh paragraph. But another point has to be made here is that when considering the bill, the addition to it, the non-introduction, the deletion is not allowed. This means that the compromise field is closed. Because even if it's said that it's going to be prepared later, before that, it's still another catch with a view to delaying the situation, because I'm going to explain the position. See, if there is a change or amendment to the existing changes to the Constitution, then the Constitutional Court, which stated that any coma placed would be considered to be an illegal Constitutional Court, means that they will make amendments, additions here, this will be voted on then, the Constitutional Court finds all of this not real and will accept only what has been adopted before, and it will be considered. And he's got all his visa on it. In addition, I would like to go back to the Supreme Council Rules, where it is said that we will not follow, but it wanted this to sound. That bills relating to the Constitution or to the draft constitutional law are distributed in the sessional room 16 days before the meeting of the Supreme Council. What's the rush? Well, I don't understand, it's not clear to everyone here that an unreadable bill, unworked, unspoken, unvoted -- it's, indeed, a whale in a bag. Who's better off buying a cat in a bag? Actually, who's in a good mood? It's good for those who sell. It's good for a gypsy guy who sells a cat in a bag instead of a bag, saying there's either a room animal in the house or something. I call on you all. Just be aware that you are voting here for an animal in a bag, no more and no less. So I want you all to know that and remember that by pressing the buttons behind. Plus, I'd like to remind you that the changes to the Constitution can't be made by grabbing, because it's the cat that's born fast, all the rest of the stuff has been going on for a long time. So I'd like to emphasize, let's do this over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u260	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u261	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party The faction of our Ukraine. Today, when we had an incident with Adam Ivanovich, when he behaved like a hooligan, he said I didn't say everything, I'll tell you everything right now. I've come to him, we haven't considered this yet. I told him that if the Communists would continue to rape the Rules and the Constitution and insolently include this issue, it would be unnecessary proof that they sold Kuchma and did his will. What you are looking at today just confirms that you sold it to him. Now the second one. I told him that I would demand that my bill number 5362 be included and considered. It is not included or considered today. It's also another piece of evidence that you Communist ladies, or a buddy, if you're right about you, sold to Kuchma. Now I want to say, and I want to talk to most of them, and I want to talk to Alexander Alexandrovich. If you think you're depriving the President of your authority, you're very wrong. You're not depriving him of his authority. When he is given the authority of the people, he will exercise his authority, and you are destroying Parliament and local self-government, because when Janukovic or Kuchma sits here with all the government, this Parliament will no longer be, he is almost gone today. When they appoint heads of administration in places, it will be a thousand times worse than today’s heads of administration, because today’s are still deprived of real executive power, and they will destroy real self - government. And finally, I would strongly advise the honourable majority after today's session to come and read these changes to the Constitution, and you will see that there are two wonderful things for you there. First, you give the President the right to dissolve Parliament immediately after the elections, because you have to form a majority according to the 2002 elections, so you have to bring "Eda" back to "Eda", "Our Ukraine" back to "Our Ukraine." And whoever doesn't come back, there's an imperative mandate, they're going to lose that mandate. So think about what you're offered to vote. And finally, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that Mr. Gavrish has given you this terrible week the role of Pontius Pilate, who is to crucify the Constitution. But even so, have dignity and transmit to the MPs at least the text of this Constitution of these changes because they are not available.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u262	That's what Alexandrovska says, Frost. What? One minute, we are. Alexandrovska, Moroz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u263	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Unfortunately, we have yet again the opportunity to see the representatives of the Yushchenka bloc, Our Ukraine, politically powerless to do anything useful in this room for the people of Ukraine. And in this powerlessness, they try to compensate for their political insurrection, their political impotence, which is wickedly slandering the communists. You, ours, feel and live in the money-power-day coordinate system. That is why you are so mean to the communists, because you do not understand that there may be other motivations, motivations for your people, concerns about Ukraine's future. You don't know that. You're just talking about money, money, money. So you're showing that it's important to you. I hope the people of Ukraine will give you the right assessment. I think people who listen to today and listen to yesterday understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u264	Alexander Frost. Then the Replication of the Mokchan and then the after. Well, what if they call for replicas. Then Klukkowski per minute and Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Valérie Mikhailovich. I am addressing the deputy of Assadchev, who has reprimanded me, with a series of reproofs. I want to say something. Local self - government in Ukraine has already been destroyed by the current regime. This was facilitated by a decision taken by the Constitutional Court, which allowed local representative bodies of officials from the Administration to be selected by the governing body. Today, it is the Department of Administration, not local self - government. And to save the situation, we're proposing another mechanism, the mechanism that we agreed with you a year and two years ago, talking about proportional elections to the Supreme Council, to the local authorities. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u266	Paul Silent, microphone, please. Dear colleagues, well, he's entitled to a replica. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be tolerant. I beg you, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u267	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I can't stand to see how a group called Valérie Assadchev's "companion," who is fooling people who are disadvantaged, robbed, you're parasites against them! And you know there's a group of people, even most of those sitting in this room, who don't know that the top gets huge fees! And you need me to show you. Teryochin said -- he'll show you the millions he gives you. And it comes from several sources. And you know very well who owns the business! Don't fool people. And what you do, and what you bring to power today, you usurp it forever, you will not be in the political field. Count it! You're doomed! And we were elected by the people in 2002, and he trusted us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u268	Yes, Klukkowski has a minute and Sobolje has a minute. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u269	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, block "Our Ukraine". As a member of the Temporary Special Commission, I have the right to have a separate opinion. I'm not going to use political arguments right now, although I agree with my colleagues, but I would like to draw your attention to a few documents that are given to you. First of all, you are given a decision by today's Temporary Special Commission, where there is no registration number for the bill introduced by Gavrish and others. This was confirmed at a meeting of the commission. At the time of consideration, such a bill was not registered, so he could not be considered by the Temporary Special Commission and could not be considered in the Hall today. This is a gross violation of the Supreme Council Rules. And Vladimir Mikhailovich, as I recall, gave the public word that the Rules would be fully enforced. The other one. This draft regulation, p-8, contains a rule that prohibits the exclusion of certain provisions of the bill. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court, by its conclusion first, has foreseen this possibility because I have declared constitutionally the deletion of individual provisions of the bill, and secondly, I have referred to paragraph 10 to a number of internal contradictions and contradictions with the text of a valid Constitution, which can only be eliminated by excluding certain norms. My colleague Sergey Sobolev will speak on the seventh point. And all I'm saying is that Ukrainians have been saying for many years, "Christ has been resurrected, Ukraine will rise!"in spite of all the ungodly steps that are being taken here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u270	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the document that has just been handed down to you: this is the conclusion of this draft decision of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. First point. In paragraph two, it is unclear which text will be voted on tomorrow as proposed by the Temporary Special Commission. So think about this: The 4,105 text is not given today, and you don't know what form it's even going to vote on. Paragraph 2: There is also doubt as to whether the provisions of draft article 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine are consistent. I read that, according to the seventh paragraph proposed by Mr. Havrish, it is proposed that "a bill that has not been adopted as a law should once again vote on its rejection." I remind you of the 158th article of the Constitution, which clearly states, "The draft, which has not been voted out, is regarded as rejected." That is why, for these reasons, this draft decree directly contradicts the Constitution. Again, I refer to Mr. Gavrish. And if the procedure for adopting the Constitution is time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-07-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I will put them to the vote, as I have discussed the draft regulations. I put to the vote the first draft of the ruling, which was reported by the national deputy Shevchuk. Sergei Shevchuk. I'm putting this draft of Decree 4105-P6. And Catherinechuk first, I'm sorry, he was the first to report. Take it off the vote. The first to vote is the draft, which was reported and submitted by the national deputy Catherinechuk, which is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a temporary procedure for the consideration of bills amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5067]] I'm betting on a vote to adopt this project as a whole. Please be sure. [[15:31:30.]] For-125 The decision is not taken. The second is the draft vote of the national deputy Shevchuk, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the procedure for the review and adoption of the draft Law on the Order of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[4105-P6]] I'm betting on a vote to adopt this project as a whole. [[15:32:05]] For-149 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote the draft, which was reported by the National MP, Alexander Alexander Moroz, is the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a temporary procedure for the consideration of draft amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4105-P5]] I'm betting on a vote to adopt this project as a whole. [[15:32:43]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! To the project. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 96, the Ukraine is 0, the Communists are 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Labour Ukraine is 0, the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is 0, the People's Government is 0, the SPI 18, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 17, the Democratic Initiative is 0, the Agrarian Party is 0, the People's Choice is 1, the NDP is 0, the Postfactional is 6. [[united]] Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? To Project 4105, which proposes temporary. [[I'll tell you now, one minute.]] The temporary special commission will make a note to the Science and Export Authority. Plus. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Plus in paragraph 3 of the report, Stepan Bogdanovic proposed removing what technically stole the words of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the adoption of this project, taking into account the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, which recommends clarification in paragraph 2 and delete paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 7. I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the draft decree as a whole, as decrees of registration number 4105-p\8. [[15:34:21]] For 267 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 61, Communist faction - 59, Industrialists and entrepreneurs "Trudova Ukraine" - 37, SDPU - 38, SPI-0, Timoshenko Block - 0, People's Government - 15, Deminiciates - 16, Agrarian Party - 15, National Choice - 12, NDP - 11, Postfraction - 3. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 hours of work on the committees.
