ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, guests invited by the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:31]] -423 registered There were 423 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. People's deputies are invited to sign up for statements, messages, and suggestions. In the meantime, I'll be making inquiries. Yes, please explain. I would like to point out that today we have speeches by national deputies, not by factions. So just like we signed up, we're going to do it. I'm addressing the representatives of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have 130 questions. That's at least 30 minutes. You can sit quietly and listen to these questions, because besides asking questions, I won't do anything at this time. Then I'll give you a word, a few minutes left to make statements and suggestions. And after that, you're going to demand what you want. Please sit down, I'll call in requests. And if not, we'll close the meeting. Are we going to work or are we going to close the meetings? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Yes, please stop, but no discussion at the rostrum to hear what I'm reading. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatolia Musiyovic, into the House of Deputies. More announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dry Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, from the MP's faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united and its membership in the MP's political party "Trudova Ukraine". Now let me introduce you to the MP's questions. The following questions came from the MPs: Maria MARKUS to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Pension Insurance of Chernobyl residents in the Zacarpathian Region. Anatolya NALIWAYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen with the wages of the teams of electric motorists of the Khatzsky, Zedani and Kirov regions of the power grids of the Donetsk region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal sale of 25 hectares of land on the territory of the international airport Borispil. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of vehicles for the disabled family and group, residents of the village of Novi Lubar of the Žitomir region. SCHEWCHUKA and Oleg ZARUBINSKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the unsatisfying condition of the elevator equipment and the security of the use of elevators in the Ukrainian Housing Fund. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory work of the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kyiv region under Anatolia Voloschuk. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds to the Kosovo City Council of the Ivano-Frankov Region for construction work. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of thermal energy calculations in the existing housing fund. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory implementation by the Ministry of Ukraine of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine of the current social protection standards for Chernobyl. [[RACHAN, DIVORCE, AND OTHERS. Total 7 deputies]] Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the state of emergency on Ukraine’s highways. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the basis of the debt on the payroll of the employees of the Anakyyev factory of large-scale housing and the theft of state property in this enterprise. Igor CHELOMBITKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the Cerka National University of the name Bogdan Hmelnick. Mr Sandler to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the need to comply with the requirements of antitrust legislation of Ukraine by the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine, “Ukraszalnica”. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for removal from active displacement zones in the Tachiv region, as well as for flood victims in 1998 and 2001. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the non-indemnity of the budget for the restoration and modernization of the phytotronic and thermal complex of the Mironian Institute for Wheat of the Name of Remesla. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the sharp reduction of the network of district hospitals in the rural region of Chernigiv. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the unsatisfactory review by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the parliamentary request for improper enforcement by officials of the Carpathian Regional Customs of the decision of the Uzgorod District Court in favour of the “Perval” Society. [[RACHAN, DESTRUCTION, AND OTHERS. Total 4 deputies]] Mr. Mikoli Karnauha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of land use in the territory of the Bela Rural Council of the Kotelev district of Poltava. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in response to his dissatisfaction with the question of the provocative behaviour of the ambassador of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Mr. Paul KACHAURA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal collection of wages for the domestic use of natural gas. Edward GURVIC to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the determination of the actual amount of money that was to be received from the granting of visas to the Embassy of Ukraine in the State of Israel to Israeli citizens in 2002 and for the examination of the cost of visas according to the principle of reciprocity. Dear colleagues, I said there were 24 pages of questions. So far, I've introduced you to four pages. Sit down, there's so much noise that I absolutely, well, I don't have the ability to read them. After that, you're going to come up -- and you're going to block the rostrum again, because right now nobody needs it at all. I'd like you to take your jobs, please, and I'll announce your requests. Then stand quietly, without discussion. It's just that there's a background I can't hear, I'm sorry. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper financing of benefits for the health care of citizens of the Hersonian region who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the collective appeal of 368 veterans of the Great War of Homeland and the work of the city of Nicopol and the Nicosia region for the recalculation of subsidies for the payment of individual categories of citizens. Mr Eugene HIRNIKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the financing of the Ukrainian Free University in Munich. Vladimir LÄCHENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the payment of arrears to the teaching staff of the Czernigow Home Assistant School for Remedies of Years and Assistance for Recovery. Petra KUZMANK to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, on the activities of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Mr Vladimir ÍŠENKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Kirilenko for the completion of the gasification work of the village Verbiuk of the Kamyan district of Cherka. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the theft of property of the unfinished construction of the Crimean AES. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on criminal persecution by the authorities of the Alexandrian region of the Kirovograd area of the farm “Outside” by Mikhail Lisenka. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper performance of official duties by members of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Red Guard district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Paul PAUL SILCHANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal accounting of debts for the use of gas by the families of internal affairs veterans. Stepan BULBI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of effective legislation by officials of the closed stockholders association of the Poltava Oil and Extraction Plant Sunflower and on the use of measures to restore legality. Mr. Alexander BARANIVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations committed by the Corstos region’s Internal Affairs Department in investigating the fire of Vasil Kononczuk’s property. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts presented in the address of citizen Sergio Vlasyuk. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the abuse of the position of officials of the law enforcement authorities of the Rožišten district of Volin region in the investigation of the case concerning the Mayak agricultural cooperative. LUKJANENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the dangerous ecological situation that took place in the city of Glyña in the Zoločov district of Lviv. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal possession of evidence of the right to property belonging to the village of Žuravline in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on problems with the allocation of land to State-owned property rights holders in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the rights of a citizen of Oleg Head of the Darnicki Department of the State Automobile Inspectorate of Kiev. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the inaction of officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the Central District Office of Justice of the City of Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the execution of the decision of the Central District Court of Simferopol regarding the collection of material and moral damage. Mr. Alexander BARANIVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for illegal acts and abuse of office by the leadership of the Ukrainian State Tourism Administration. GREGORY TO the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to complete the pretrial investigation, on the liability of the guilty officials of the Pirates ’ cheese plant, and on the compensation of the losses suffered by the enterprise. John ZAJEU to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning the situation that has arisen with the privatisation of the Open Shareholder Society “Criminal Rig Cement”. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of persecution, the illegal detention, the arrest, the criminalization of journalist Vladimir Boyk and the use of unlawful measures by officials of the law enforcement and judicial authorities of the Donetsk region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for failure to respond to the officials of the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine to request that the Office of the Prosecutor-General be overstepped by the investigating officer of the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine Klimović. [[INJURY, JOHN, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the misconduct of the head of the Maloviski district government administration of the Kirovograd district of Shulga. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on violations of the Ukrainian Law “On Printed Media in Ukraine” by the Office of Press and Information Affairs of the Kyiv District Public Administration. [[Press]] Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the owners of the Open Shareholders Association “Mikolayiv Agricultural Plant” in connection with the decision to denominate shares in an enterprise. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the use of measures for the mass violations of the rule of law in the city of Melitopolis of the Zaporozhye region with the participation of local authorities, the obstruction of the activities of the local centre of the Party of Protectors of the country, the violation of constitutional rights to privacy and entrepreneurial activity. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the elimination of violations of the legal rights of the group of “Salon Furniture” No. 9 of the city of Tacheva during the privatisation of “Zakarpatemble” company. [[MIHOVI, BUZDIGAN, CARMAZIN]] Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the illegal decision of the Jenakii city judge Miroshkin concerning the newspaper Communist Donbas and author of the article Loskutov. [[SIMONENKO, BUIKE, PUNCH]] Mikhail Kosiva to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the recognition of persons resettled in 1951 from territories that have gone to Poland in accordance with article 9, paragraph 11, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection. VICTOR OF THE U.S. Minister of Agrarian Politics on the allocation of subsidies for the reconstruction of the building under the Faculty of Forestry of the State Agro-ecological University. Ms. Alexander GOLUBA to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for failure to implement the decision of the Galician District Court of Lviv, the Education Department of the Sikh District Administration of Lviv. Mr. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the inaction of employees of the Labour and Social Protection Directorate of the Lenin district of Poltava regarding the granting of subsidies to the citizen of Vizovsky. Gennady RUDENKA to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the issue of reform and transfer of military assets to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Jury CARMAZINA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Herson region for the use of arbitrary interference by officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the Lower Syrian District Administration of Justice in the Herson area of the organization of agricultural work in the spring and field, by brutally violating the constitutional obligation to enforce the court’s decision. MICHELLA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the actions of members of the Poltavian City Department of the Ministry of Interior in the Poltavian region. Vassila SPAK to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the legality of the collection of funds from the sick for medical treatment. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the prohibition of the political party of SDPU(o) as a result of its actions aimed at undermining the security of the State, the illegal seizure of State power, the violation of human rights and freedoms, the violation of other requirements regarding the activities of political parties established by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on political parties in Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine. [[TIMOŠENKO, KOSTENKO, MARTINENKO, and others. Total 49 deputies]] Stepan BULBI to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for ill - health care to residents of the village of Bilika Kobeljak District of Poltava. Mr Ivan TOMIĆA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to comply with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On the Approval of the use of the funds provided for in the 2004 State Budget of Ukraine for the financial support of farmers through the Microcredit Mechanism” of the current legislation. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Head of the National Committee of Construction and Architecture for Ukraine’s National Building Standards Project “Relationships of the General Designer of Explosive and Fire Safety Objects with Sub-Project Organizations and Investor. ” [[customer]] Ms Shevchuk and Oleg ZARUBINSKA to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities for insufficient work to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of Multi-Apartment Houses by structures subordinated to the State Committee on Housing and Utilities. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources for the Excession of Payments for State Land Acts in the village of Cibli Prejaslav-Hmalnicki district of Kyiv region. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on the inaction of the Head of State Electricity Inspectorate in the Hmeljna Region of Trejak. [[SKOMAROVI, SANDRA, and others Total 4 deputies]] Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the implementation of the fixed terms of the tender for the privatisation of the stock package of the State Shareholder Holding Company Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime at the President of Ukraine on the non-objective conduct of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office of the theft of collective property by the management of a society with limited responsibility for “Ukraine” in the Odessa region. Mr. Vladimir PETREN to the Head of the Court of Justice in civil matters of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, on the charge of gravity by the Trostian district court of the district of Suma, on the issue of the citizen Krivchenko and the removal of the head of this court of Janov. Igor CHELOMBITKA to the Head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine on the misuse of the funds of the State budget of Ukraine as head of the Tallinn Regional Government Administration of the Cherkas region. Hennady RUDENKA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding taxation of oil and gas companies in Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian tax inspection laws “On the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House” and “On the Taxation of Business Income”, resulting in an increase of 20 per cent. [[BONDARENCO, VASUNIK, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine on the violation by the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime of the President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies - an abrogation from the request made at the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 7 November 2003. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Head of the Cherka District State Administration for the provision of housing for the disabled person of the Great Homeland War of the first group of Andria Sergienka. Valerium OF THE LEBEDIA to the Head of the Management of the Association of Shareholders of the closed “DVC” type for the absence of a reply to a parliamentary statement regarding non-compliance by the Society with the terms of the investment agreement. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the internal affairs of Ukraine, head of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Boris Grizlov and representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation Alexander Yakovenka. Julius TIMOSHENKO to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of material assistance for the acquisition of computer equipment for students of the Kamyan Educational and Educational Complex No. 2 of the city of Anthracite Lugansk. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Veterans, guarantees of their social protection, by the Lviv and Odessa District Government Administrations. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to read our requests and to announce our applications. It's been 30 minutes. I've got all the pages left. Continue to read queries? Is there no objection? No one's gonna say we're breaking the Rules? We're breaking the Rules? Klukkowski denies that I should read any more. Please have a conversation with Klukkowski. All right, I'll keep going then, with your permission. Omelana PARUBKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to train professionals at the level of a junior agricultural specialist in Ukraine. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the state of the open stockholders' association “Nicopolski Principial and Nickel Combined” in the liquidation process. Vassil BARTKIEV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the marking at the national level of 125th anniversary of Simon Petluri's birth. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the identification of the origin of the raw material that comes to be processed into the open stock company “Kirnasian Sugar Plant” and the use of measures to support the domestic producer of sugar raw materials. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-application of measures taken by the Government to curb the sharp rise in tariffs for the population on water supply, heating in the cities and centres of the Chernigiv region. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for improper response to requests for unlawful interference with the activities of the primary organization of the Independent Mining Trade Union of Ukraine of the Lenin Mine of the Open Shareholder Society of the “Criminal Iron Combine”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Kyrovograd Science and Production Company Ecocentre. Vladimir PETRENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the current legislation for the conduct of an additional issue of shares of the National Shareholder Insurance Company “Oranta”. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the pharmaceutical industry in the Hersonian region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the XIIIth International Gusul festival in the village of Putila Cherniewecki district. Oleg NEMIROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation at the State Enterprise “Sustainment plant 61 communaires” as a result of failure by the Fund of State Property of Ukraine to represent the interests of the plant in accordance with the agreement between the Fund and the enterprise. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the restoration of construction materials in Ukraine. Lesya Tanjuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the cancellation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's order for the return to the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands of works from the Kenigs Collection. Alexander Goluba to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the elimination of the budget deficit of the National Music Academy of Ukraine named Peter Tchaikovsky. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for taking into account the Government's proposals by the Ukrainian National Deputy for funding in 2004 of investment projects from the National Budget of Ukraine. Victor YUSCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of unlawful actions regarding the termination of the operation of the drug market utility and the removal of more than a thousand employees. Mr. Alexander BARANIVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the audit of the use of budgetary resources for the provision of targeted material assistance by the All-Ukrainian Public Organization, the Union of Chernobyl. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the criminal case against the head of District Electoral Commission No.26 on the election of the city head in Mukacheve on 18 April 2004. [[THE TARASJU, THE GREEN, AND OTHERS. Total 6 deputies]] Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for illegal acts and for exceeding the official powers of law enforcement officials and prosecutors of the Red Guard region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mr. Alexander BARANIVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation by the City Council. The U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for illegal actions by the head of the State Tax Administration in the Zakarpat region. YEUGEN YULTIA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminal acts of the arbitrational director, the liquidator of the Barishiv Reprocessing Company, Wijacheslav Lackan, Barishiv village head Obadiah, and the inaction of prosecutors. GMIR to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of current legislation and constitutional rights of citizens by the editor-in-chief of the newspaper “Magistral” Romanyuk. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of the private shareholder association “Ochtirkahlbud” of the district of Suma. Victor YUSCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violent, reprisal and human rights abuses by law enforcement officials in the city of Herson and in the region of Herson. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on Violations of Actual Legislation by the Blackwater Channel. Mr. Dmitr SANDLER to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the legality of the activities of the employees of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Chernigiv region. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper response of the authorities of the DA’s office in the district of Calancei district of Hersson to the request of the national deputy of Ukraine. Mikhaila RODIONOVA and Sergia ČELNOKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations in the reform of the village of Špilka Kyevo-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on checks that impede the work of the closed-circuit association “Vinny Liquor-Helicopter Plant”. [[ZARUBINSKI, MELNIK, ONOPENKO]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the investigation of a gang attack on the premises of the Montenegrin Regional Organization of the People's Movement of Ukraine in Priluka. [[TARASJUK, GRIGOROVIĆ, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the cancellation of the Order of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine No. 274 of 29 March 2004 on the release of all police personnel who have reached the age of 45 from internal affairs, as opposed to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Cloud, Carmazin, Kirilchuk]] Jury CARMAZINA and Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on a criminal offence involving employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for providing false information about the criminal connections of the acting head of the Lviv City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv district of Kurocka with criminal authority. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against the head of the territorial electoral commission on the election of the Mukatov City Head Yuri Perest for obstructing the exercise of the electoral rights of citizens and the activities of national deputies, for failing to meet their demands by the police and members of the territorial electoral commission. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the illegal actions of investigators and judicial authorities in the city of Kirovgrad in the decision of the Lenin District Court on the road accident carried out by Dmitr Trikoz on 19 August 2003 in the city of Kirovograd. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE U.S. HEALTH MINISTER FOR SUPPORT OF THE Dentistry Clinic of the Žitomir district of Žitomir by means of a mobile dental installation, Satva Compact. WOLDIMARY PEACE to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine on the possible social consequences of the decision to eliminate the structural unit of the passenger train crew of the Zitomirsk formation. John STANDS to the Ukrainian Defence Minister regarding the legality of the commander’s command to remove from the public schools of Ternopol for training. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the clarification of the application of articles 23 and 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the observance of the Jubilee of the Ravenna Music School. [[SIXE, ALEXIUM, SHERSHUN]] Stéphane HMARA and Yuri CARMAZIN to the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the verification of the illegal closure of the industrial market in Drogbychi and the adoption of measures to remove obstacles to the entrepreneurial activities of residents of the city from the Lviv district fire department. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on bringing citizens’ pensions in line with the work contribution. VICTOR OF THE U.S. Minister of Health for hearing aids for hearing impaired people living in the 69th constituency in the Gitomir region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVA and Sergy CHELNOKOVA to the Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on the provision of information on electricity tariffs in the regions of Ukraine. MICILI REDOVSKI to the Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine for the power supply of the Blackwater Channel. Ms SANZENKA's Sergy to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on violations of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition in the Luhansk Region, a subsidiary of “Lugansk – Resources” of the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI AND SERGEY CHELNOKOVA to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on Electricity Tariffs for the Open Shareholder Society of Kyivoblanergo. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka and Mr. Jurija ARTEMENKA to the Head of the Equality City Court to ensure the enforcement of legislation in the area of freedom of expression by the Equality City Court. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Head of the Government of the Open Shareholders Association of the “Criminal Iron and Steel Association” on illegal interference with the activities of the primary organization of the Independent Mining Association of the Lenin Mines. Valery MASHURA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the responsibility for non-compliance with the Supreme Council decision of 21 October 2003 No. 4297 on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Kyrovgrad in connection with the 250th anniversary of the establishment. Mr. Mikoli NOSENKA to Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine on the reform of the Kyiv University of Economics and Technology and Transport of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the normalization of the judicial system of Ukraine. [[MOYSIC, ASADEV, RED, TARAN, AND OTHER]] I ask you to determine with the support of this request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:49:16]] For 111 Not supported. Again? It won't work. Yes, the National Deputies of MANCHULENKA, ZAGREE to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the cessation of unlawful actions by the State Executive Service of the Kyiv District Office of Justice regarding the forced sale of 33 hectares and the transfer to the lease of 207 hectares of land to a private structure without a decision and consent of the village council from the lands of conservation. The National Deputy of CATUSH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the insufficient financing of the social protection programmes of the population affected by the Chernobyl disaster in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The National Deputy Seminouc to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation into the actions of the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Pshonka, his son Pshonka, and the Deputy Prosecutor of Kramatorska for the facts presented in the address of Solodun, the Pensioner of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Major of the Militia, a former associate of the Kramator Department for the fight against organized crime. We're done with all of you. Dear colleagues, we must consult. We have 71 national deputies on the platform. Would you mind if we took 30 minutes to make statements and messages to the National MPs? Is there any objection? Dear colleagues, give me 30 minutes to announce your calls and messages. And then I'm going to call it a break because we're still on the subject. The question is: The announcement of actions and the announcement of applications and appeals. Please, 30 minutes. Show me on the monitor who signed up. Please, 30 minutes. Lucenko. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u2	Please give the floor to the leader of the Socialist Party of Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u3	Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. The Socialist faction has asked me to declare a change in my claim: to repay the debt to the educated. It is well known that in 1996, the Education Act, which required a step - by - step introduction of extra fees to teachers for their internships, treatments, and bonuses, compared the wages of teachers to that of the industry. The successive position of deputies over the past two years has helped to raise the salaries of teachers and educators. But even now, its level is very low and does not reach the minimum standard of living. Despite the legal requirements of the educational community, the majority in Parliament refused to make partial repayments of debts in the past few years due to the failure to implement the 57th article of the law. Today, debts have raised nearly 5 billion dollars. At the invitation of the deputies to accept this debt as a sovereign and to schedule its return, the government is in favour of refusing it. Over 120,000 fair lawsuits of teachers have been blocked by courts of execution. A similar policy of governments depends on the President, most in parliament shows their indifference to the future of Ukraine, the development of the intellectual potential of hundreds of thousands of young people and girls, the fate of teachers. Stanislaw Nikolainko was asked three times by a faction on the Conciliation Council to put the issue in order of the day, and he still does not. Thus, the faction demands that the Supreme Council, the government immediately consider a bill on the repayment of these debts to the education community, start paying off these debts without delay. In amending the 2004 Budget and Budget Act, it is essential to anticipate the cost of public services for rural intelligence: teachers, doctors, and cultural workers. Socialists propose to amend the Pension Law, introduce special sectoral coefficients for education students who would allow at least double their pension. We insist on an increase of at least a third of the government's order to take students to colleges, to increase student scholarships to the minimum of living, to restore child nutrition in schools and PTU. A faction offering to prove the cost of education at least 10 percent of gross domestic product. The sources of funding for these expenses are the introduction of a state monopoly on alcohol, vodka elections, tobacco, energy systems, the restoration of customs control, and the border. The socialists are offering their community a program to save education, and it's published. We invite educators to join in a fair fight for the fate of the educational sector. We save education, we save the state. Together to a better fate!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexandre Alexandrovich, if I am not betrayed by my memory, for the next plenary week, the proposals made by the Science and Education Committee are placed in the order of the day. Please, Cloud. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u5	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The events of April 18-19 in Mukachevo showed the final stage of criminalizing the ruling regime in the country and the usurpation of power, the so-called Social Democratic Party, which is not really a political party, but a criminal group that has acquired the name of a political party. [[united]] In Torture, he did all he could to subdue the rights of the electorate and to enable them to form by free will of the local authorities. Having seen that they have failed, so-called Social Democrats, along with the local government, which is also in their hands, in adhering to the highest officials, including the President of Ukraine, the leaders of the power structures have done everything they can to falsify the results of the elections, to replace the evidence of their defeat with objective evidence of their defeat, and to continue the saviour that can spread throughout Ukraine. I will not, honourable deputies, count the many facts in the absence of time that I have witnessed, precisely where the largest areas were where, with the greatest number of votes, the rival, the so-called, social-democrats of Balog, were organized in all of these areas by so-called, social-democrats brought in by the gangs, attacks and attempts to destroy the results of the elections. [[United]] We demand that the Minister of Internal Affairs and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service be immediately here to answer why they still can't bring order, why they're not holding back the gang formations that were brought together by the Social Democrats in Mukachevo. [[United]] We demand, the Conciliation Council, that we continue to consider this comprehensive issue with the disclosure of facts and the objective delivery of them through the media to Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u6	Please, Shershun, the Agrarian Party faction. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u7	Please give the word to the Head of the faction Michael Gladys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u8	Please, Michael Glady's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. The Ukrainian Agrarian Party’s deputy faction has once again expressed its concern over the state of budget funding for the agricultural sector of the economy and the social sphere of the village. About a third of Ukraine’s population lives in rural areas. The state, according to current legislation, must create the conditions for providing rural people with the most necessary social standards. However, in the development of public budgets, especially in recent years, existing legislation is systematically ignored and the necessary budget is not allocated to this important sector of the economy in the necessary amounts. As a result, the economic situation in the agro-industry complex, especially in agriculture, is getting complicated. Production has decreased significantly. Most farms are insolvent. The level of wages employed in agriculture is the lowest among all other sectors. Such a situation poses a threat to the food security of the State and causes social tension to increase, both in the country and in society. In our view, a fundamental correction of this situation is primarily to ensure that the legislation in force in Ukraine on the priority development of the agri-industrial complex is implemented and that the volume of budgetary funding for this important sector of the economy of Ukraine is substantially increased. In addition, we believe that the government, starting next year, needs to change the current pattern of financing the APC and move to a new funding scheme through the budget. In our view, peasants do not need so - called benefits, which are more often used by an intermediary than by a manufacturer. To finance the APC, as in the entire civilized world, the government has to anticipate subsidies, subsidies, and channel them to support certain types of plant and animal production for one hectare of soybean, or to a unit of animal production, or to the head of the dairy herd. We talked about this at the 2004 budget, but we weren't completely heard. In order not to be late, we draw the Government's attention to our proposal one more time before the start of the budget process, and we hope that it will be carefully considered and taken into account in the 2005 project of the Supreme Council of the State Budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u10	Please, Boki, the Socialist faction. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u11	I give the floor to the deputy of Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u12	Nice girl, huh? Please, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u13	Respectable citizens, voters. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would like to support Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz’s speech so that we will look at the issue of repayment of debts to our teachers, higher education and rural intelligence, and the restoration of municipal services at our first session in May. Otherwise, we will never stand in the way of civil development. The faction empowered me today to draw the attention of the government, the executive, the legal authorities, the forces, to the problem that arose again in Ukraine, to the metal industry. There was a wave in the black wave that destroyed both the economy and the production. And now the second shaft is rolling. It's coming with a metal scrape. The government doesn't react because it has dividends in it. The ruins of workshops, workshops, and courtyards of ordinary citizens, pensioners, have already reached cemeteries. They're pulling the power lines, picking up transformers, water pumps. The question is: Why is that? Here's my friend Lucenko telling me, he says, they're already telling the people that there was nothing to lose before the proletariat but chains, and now the chains have been stolen. The question is: Why so? Is there no law? Is there no will to his responsibility? Earlier, the authorities had said that there was no registration, licenses were issued for scrap metal only in Kiev, and today it does not affect the process. Then there's no criminal responsibility. Then it was said that a low - priced bribe would be imposed on scrap metal. All of this was taken into account by the Metallurgical Law. And there's a license plate for local authorities, and that's all there is. However, that is not the case. Why? Look. Registers are licensed on local councils. So today both district administrations and rural councils can influence. Eight years of criminal responsibility for the destruction of power lines can be influenced? Only state enterprises have the right to produce colored metal. Why is the problem not solved? Three answers. First. Great financial interest, corruption, unwillingness to exercise authority. I believe that internal affairs officials are also benefiting from this. That's why I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for a total review of compliance with the Metallurgy Act. We need to put an end to this. Third. Stop this terrible breakup that is taking place in Ukraine. I think that if we do that, it will be respect for both the state and the executive and the legislative authority. The socialists demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u14	Please, Semenyuk, a faction of socialists, prepare Cybenka, a Communist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u15	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! At the request of the 50 National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine, the constitutionality of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the measures taken to introduce a State monopoly in the field of the control of the production and circulation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, a decision has been taken which has been declared unconstitutional in paragraph one of the articles and articles two of the above-mentioned Decree. This suggests that there were the right national deputies of Ukraine in their application. We are for the introduction of a monopoly, but this must be done in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And the mechanism for taking such measures should go through Parliament. Today there is a majority, there is a coalition, there is a common responsibility of the majority and the government, the primacy of the adoption of the bills submitted by the President, so the President must end the period of dual law - the decree and the adoption of the relevant laws, and that is to say that the period of instruction has ended in accordance with the Constitution in 1999. And I pay particular attention to that because most of the relevant decrees come out under the phrase "publishing is not appropriate." It is a sad thing that the President himself hides from the people, thereby provoking appropriate actions that contradict the Constitution. At the U.S. Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and Protection of Human Rights, the President noted that Alexander Moroz and other national deputies had appealed to the Constitutional Court under the decree. I believe that after such a decision by the Constitutional Court, the President should pay attention to the fact that the opposition is not about corruption, but he and the decrees he makes under the heading "secretly." It is also unfortunate that the Constitutional Court did not say anything about the second part of the Decree, which raised the issue of privatization of alcohol - related objects that were not subject to privatization under the law. Thus, the introduction of such decrees reveals. will provoke corruption on the part of the President himself. My conclusion is, if the Constitutional Court has sent deputies to the courts of general jurisdiction, then the question is why do we need the Constitutional Court? Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask you, however, to consider the question that the Constitutional Court has not yet considered the matter of the State Administration of matters concerning the privatization of the alcohol sector in accordance with the President's decree. You don't have to hide your head in the sand, and the Constitutional Court doesn't have to be honored.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u16	Thank you. But you know, your fellow officers, that the judicial branch of power is independent of anyone, including the national deputies, from the Supreme Council. Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, a faction of Communists, has to prepare for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Boris Ilchi Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u18	Please, Boris Illrich Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u19	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, of course, I am on the side of those who demand the just punishment of those who provoked events in Mukachevo. But, dear colleagues, I urge you to support me in this. After a deliberation about the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, on which aggression was built, the same cynical menace to the world’s society is another fake, but now about the threat of civil war in the region in order to at least in some way to establish their domination in a corrupt and depraved sovereign state. With all the incontrovertible signs, Iraq is starting a national-liberal war. In view of the fact that this fight unites even the ancient opponents of vanity and sewing, it is already a real guerrilla war against the invaders. Since the invaders plan to raise their troops instead of getting out as soon as possible, this also allows free competitions to stick to cannibal terrorists who make a bloody mess out of their innocent and strangers. And if Ukraine does not want to hide itself as a disgrace to the occupying commander, it must immediately lead its soldiers out of Iraq. Any peacekeeping activity can only be carried out with the approval of the Security Council. The Partisans don't take the form of fighting, and they don't look at passports -- who and whose kind of tribe. To them, all those on the other side of the barricade are mere invaders, targets, and targets. Hence, we should not, fellow believers, allow our sons to die for other people’s sins. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, the BUT faction, the Turks. Prepare Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u21	My fellow Members, Parliament cannot begin normal work until we have solved the problem in Mukachevo. Mukachevo is the deprivation of the rights of not only the inhabitants of this city, but all Ukrainian citizens have the right to choose who they vote for. Accidentally yesterday, when civilized countries look at the situation in Ukraine, Kuchma made a statement that our soldiers will be in Iraq to the end. I'd like to ask Mr. Kuchma: To whose end, Mr. Kuchma? They'll probably be in Iraq by the time you're done. As far as our position was concerned, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko was the first to speak for not introducing troops there. We were the first ones to make a decision to pull out the troops. And I'm surprised at the position of our socialist colleagues, who burned our faction yesterday. I realize that Alexander Aleksandrovitch has started an electoral campaign, but it is difficult to increase his own rating by means of the embezzlement of others. I would like to take this opportunity, Adam Ivanovich, to present the word to Mr. Stretovich, who has just returned from Mukachev and has objective information about the recent events there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u22	Please, Stretovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I wasn't made up of deputies who were on Sunday at the polling stations in Mukachev, so I looked at the post-fact view of how it happened. Today, it must be admitted that there is no legal document in Mukachev, an original that would claim the choice of the city’s head. There are the original documents found in one of the subjects of the electoral process received after the vote has been completed. For 5 days, the Supreme Council commission worked as a deputy to the Head for one period and continued to serve as two committee heads. We were driven by the nose, considered to be fools, as if we didn't understand anything, and the city council, the militias were running when they had to get any action. The militia boycotted the D.A.'s department's orders to conduct the investigation, they couldn't find them, they just disappeared, they understood, the people who have to open the door are the others. Thus, today there is every reason to believe that a rod organized by a known political power, namely its deputies, came into the office yesterday where the group was working, and tried to force a hooligan action to throw us out of the room, while at the time 150 young men were chanting in the window and throwing stones at the windows of the land. Only the intervention of the operating group of the BSS allowed this conflict to be resolved. Since yesterday, an intelligence team from the Attorney General's Office has started work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u24	Please, Mishur. Get ready for Alexandrovsky. In the end, I'll give Frost his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u25	Mishur, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Volodymira Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u26	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Regrettably, Ukraine is continuing its deliberate falsification of the past. In textbooks for secondary and higher education institutions, our historical past is often replaced by anticommunist and nationalistic delusions. The role of the Communist Party in the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War is being debased, and historic date celebrations are often conducted by local authorities formally and are not educational. For example, during a rally in the city of Novomirgorod in the region of Kirovograd dedicated to the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the land from German-Fashistic invaders as the head of the regime of Mr. Avsentiev and his deputy Mr. Chapizak, the representative of the Communist Party was refused to read the greetings to war veterans, liberators and residents of the region on the occasion of the festival from the first Secretary of the C.C. Company of Ukraine, Petar Mikolaiovich Simonnka, and when the welcome letter was still read by both ladies along with the national deputy Boyko, they left the rally, although all present listened to the greetings and expressed their appreciation for the applause. Do you, Mr. Aussentiev and Chapijak, not studied at Soviet school and do not know that the victory in the Great Homeland War was won by the Soviet people under the leadership of the Communist Party, thanks to its organizing and mobilizing role? And as you ran away from the rally, you created your own public mistrust. It is not clear why he does not want to remember the role of the party in the war, and Mr. Stoyanov, the head of the City Council of Novomirgos, who was elected with the support of the Communists of the district, who not only gave the floor to a representative of the Company, but even turned off the microphone to serve the gentlemen who were fleeing the rally. It's a question. The first secretary of the CK of Ukraine, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, has not forgotten and has found time to congratulate the people of Novomirgradstje on the holiday and why they have not come to congratulate the representatives of the district government, the district council, for forgetting to welcome them President Kuchma and Prime Minister Janukovic. Why did they not wish to give their greetings at the rally of other political parties in the region? They don't recognize our shared heroic past? None of the glorious pages of history should be erased from the memory of the people. The blackness of the past, as well as the silence of the facts, which are not a given piece of time, are not politically advantageous for these troublemakers in the area, is a crime before the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u27	Please, Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Prepare Harmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u28	Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies and respected citizens of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is currently preparing for the final adoption of a new version of the Labour Code, the Labour Code. The Government, which has ionized the development of this fundamental work relationship document, explains the need for it to be adopted by the fact that KZOT, which has been operating since Soviet times, is allegedly obsolete and does not meet the realities of today. However, everyone knows that KZOT still fully regulates labour relations. It is not in harmony with today's realities, but only from one point of view. It limits the opportunity for the unfortunate exploitation of workers. That is why he does not agree with those who wish to remove legal barriers to the use of hired workers as an unspeakable labour force. The Labour Code, supported by the majority and representatives of Yushchenko, Our Ukraine, legitimizes the already established unequal relations between workers and employers. It introduces discriminatory articles for women and pensioners. It provides employers with an opportunity to actually manage the fates of employees. Employers have been given far more opportunities to fire workers without their consent, to transfer them to other jobs, and to send them indefinitely on non-custodial leave. This Labour Code, so called the Labour Code, effectively deprives people of the ability to protect themselves collectively because it deprives them of the right of trade unions to protect workers. Putting this Labour Code on hold is a requirement of today, it is a requirement of many working groups that have appealed to us Communist deputies. We, members of the Ukrainian Compatriot in the Supreme Council, opposed the adoption of the Labour Code, voted against it and will continue to vote against it. In order to protect workers' rights to work, to respect their work, we organize on 1 May the Day of Workers' Solidarity throughout Ukraine, we hold rallies, demonstrations in all regions of Ukraine in Harkovština, Žitomirščina, Dnepropetrovšina, Donetsk, totally in all regions, the communists are conducting protests. We invite all workers to participate in them, protect their right to work, protect their right to be people, people with respect, professionals. I would like to invite all of you to participate in these protests, including in the city of Kiev. Here, on May 1st, at 10 o'clock, the column begins to move, organized by Communists from Slava Square. I ask you all comrades to stand up for your fundamental rights, your right to work, to earn a decent living.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u29	Please, Garmash and the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u31	Please, it's Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u32	Rudzkowski. The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. The Turkish national deputy accused the Socialists of being unobjective. Three men of the Yulia Block voted in favour of sending troops to Iraq. We don't blame this faction. But there was a position of national MPs. But the speech and the form that the Turkish people's deputy made, accusing our leader of something, shows that this is another step, the attempt by Yulia Timoshenko to discredit the Socialist Party and our leader, to smear it with some incomprehensible scheme or something. We believe that those attempts by the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, Yulia Tymoshenko personally, to involve the socialists in signing one or the other agreement in a three-way agreement with the Prime Minister and to be signed there, are only possible under one condition, if Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko enters the United States of America, she will testify in the Lazarus case, on those issues, hundreds of millions of dollars in bribes to Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko, will return to Ukraine without handcuffs and then have the right with the Socialists to sign the coalition agreements. Until then, the Socialists will be negotiating with all the others -- "Our Ukraine", the Communists. But we'll never sign a deal with Julia Timoshenko's block. Let him drop the charges. The Ukrainian court will never investigate objectively. Let him show up there and then have the moral right to ask questions about blaming someone else. Socialists have consistently stood in the position of principle and democracy. And we believe, and now we need to conduct an objective investigation into the torture case, we need to make changes to the Constitution in order to ensure that the crime that was in Mukachevo never occurs. So that the Prime Minister of the Supreme Council can remove himself and bring to justice any official. I'm talking to our colleagues from Our Ukraine. Enough of us to go to the President's Office and ask him. In that office, they've had their commands cut off journalists' heads, and you're asking them to handle the Mukachevo case! Don't ask for anything! Where do crimes come from? From the President, not from the head of the Administration! He's in charge!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u33	Yes, the name Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz was mentioned. One minute of replica, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u34	Honorable MPs and radio listeners! I think that the emotional speech of Mikola Rudzkowski can be understood by the sometimes uttering of completely groundless reproach on the part of those who shouldn't say that. I'm sorry that Alexander Turchinov took the socialist initiative yesterday. We're not going to make an electoral campaign on a human mountain, we're going to have a constructive program, we're going to be positive and we're going to build our own program on it. And we obviously made a mistake yesterday, when the box of your faction was blacked out, it had to be reddish, white and black, because part of it voted, part of it didn't. And not only do we need to insist on the inclusion of issues today in the order of the day about Iraq, really about the withdrawal of troops, yesterday, now the transcript, and we have voted and included this issue. Adam Ivanovich, we need to find out. And no one should have voted for our military to put their heads outside of Ukraine. I think it's a principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u35	Yes, honorary colleagues, requests have been announced, statements and messages have been made. Representatives of the Julia Timoshenko faction and our Ukraine ask to announce a recess and hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Thus, a break of up to 11 hours is announced for 55 minutes. Faction leaders and groups, please gather on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-23-m0.u36	I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, and we'll continue our meetings. Dear colleagues, let me inform you one more time about the next meeting of the Conciliation Council. First of all, I apologize for not following the same rules: we announce a break of 30 minutes, but unfortunately we do not. And we apologize to you. That's what we agreed on. The proposals were varied. Unfortunately, nothing new, apart from the mutual charges against each other, stands for one point of view, the other points of view, and requires us to be arbitrators with you, we have not heard. You and I are not allowed to speak in this respect, because this is a criminal matter that should be handled by the relevant authorities. And I think we did the right thing with you yesterday when we made the appropriate decision, in which we recorded and obliged the relevant law enforcement authorities to complete the investigation and inform the national deputies. The proposals were varied. Yes, perhaps even for your entertainment, let those deputies whose name is not be offended, but there was even such a suggestion: to make a decision - to ask the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution to introduce direct presidential rule in the city of Mukacheva and to assign temporary duties to the city’s head, one day to carry out these duties to Shufric, and the other day to carry out these duties to Ratushnjak. There was also such an offer. You realize it was a joke, but that was the offer. [[Anatoly Sergiyovich you came up later]] And seriously, there were some other suggestions. The suggestions that we agreed in principle were to continue the work of the units that we created with you. It's a working group led by Zinchenko, composed of the committee heads and the Robber's investigation committee, which we also created with you, and which no one has ever denied the right to do this work. And we've arranged for them to continue their work so that when the final outcome of the criminal investigation is reported, they can make the right decisions. Also accepted, there was an offer that finally today, as reported by representatives of our Ukraine. At last, there are full-blown protocols of the electoral boards that are being asked to meet the national MPs. We're going to introduce the national MPs to these protocols, and we're going to have people's deputies take a look. We do not conclude that these are protocols. Of course, they're copies of protocols, because they can't be originals, they have to be. The originals must be transferred to the courts, to the prosecution and so on in order to conduct investigations. We agreed to listen. We agreed, as well as in the decision to listen when the law enforcement authorities are ready, to hear the final information about hearing these decisions. In view of the decision taken by the Conciliation Council. What you've been taking for a break, I don't see "Our Ukraine." In this regard, I declare the meeting closed. Next meeting. The next meeting will take place on May 11. I sincerely welcome everyone from May 1, May 9. Good for you!
