ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Yes, turn on the glade system, let's register. [[16:00:30]] There's 381 people's deputies in the hall. The factions? Well, if you don't mind, show me the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 100, "Ukraine" - 59, "Communist faction - 59", "Social Democrats - 3, and that's fair. Hard Ukraine - 30, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Alliance - 17 led by Overraga. "The One Ukraine" is 0, "Centre" is 14, "NDP" is 15, "Deminicatives" is 13, and 12 are non-fractional. Now there's probably going to be a lot more Social Democrats. Yes, here we go. The evening session shall be declared open. We are continuing our consideration of the issues. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences (Law No. 4036). [[on the right of a person who is attracted to responsibility]] The bill's author is Polish MP Kirilo Ananiyovich. There's no Polishchuk? Yes, please, from the Committee on Law Enforcement, Yvchenko. Who's on the committee? If there's no one to report, then let's make sure that we carry it, and for quite a long time. If MPs disrespect the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council can afford to react accordingly. It's a necessary bill, but there's no one to report it. Here's the whole bill. Next questions. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for the arbitrary occupation of the land. We have three bills: 4556, 4556-1 and 4556-2. National MP Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, today we are considering bills to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code on responsibility for the arbitrary occupation of the land. The need for the adoption of these bills is prompted by life itself today, and the evidence of this is that, at the same time, three bills have come from the national MPs about the same. Statistics suggest a sharp increase in the incidence of arbitrary land grabbing and use of land according to their own reasoning. The number of such cases is steadily increasing because administrative measures are unable to stop such an act. This is evident in the Crimea, in other regions. And that's why life requires more stringent action. In line with the principles of administrative law, it provides for responsibility for wrongdoing, not for crime. At the same time, crime is viewed as a legal category. Infringement of the rights or ownership of another natural or legal person or deliberate harm. The arbitrary seizure of the earth is an attack on private, or state, or municipal property. Therefore, all legal canons must be subject to criminal law. The arbitrary capture of the earth will provoke a number of delinquency. Self - construction, free use of the nadrama, self - capture of water objects. Thus, by increasing the criminal responsibility for the arbitrary seizure of the earth, we will automatically reduce the number of derivatives. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of respected colleagues that criminal responsibility comes not immediately, but, first, in doing things again, or by a person who was once tried for a similar crime. It also organizes and directly participates in group activities aimed at self-employment of the land area. Or if the arbitrary occupation of the area harmed the State, legal and physical persons. And the measure of criminal responsibility is also different. It depends on the qualifications. It's a minimum of six months' work, and the maximum is a five-year sentence. Ukraine now has plenty of land that has not been used in circulation until now, and every Ukrainian citizen today has good reason to acquire land ownership legitimately. Along with making this bill more perfect, we need to take into account a number of observations from the scientific and expert authorities and experts. At a meeting of the Agrarian Policy Committee, this bill has been supported, and I'm asking you, your honourable colleagues, to support the bill as well. If it is constantly emphasized from the high rostrums that the earth is our wealth, let us treat it with care and responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u3	Thank you. Yes, Bill 4556-1, please. Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich. I can't see. Yes, next 4556-2 Ivanov Sergey Anatolyevich. Yes, from the committee then, Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please. Generally speaking, honourable colleagues, today there are many questions of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Allow me on your behalf, and let our electorate hear this, make a comment to the head of the committee for such careless treatment of the Supreme Council. And one more thing. Quite often, the honourable chairman of the committee insists that his questions be asked and considered. Well, you can't do that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! That's exactly the point we're making, the absence of Maria Andriyevna, who's not just a member of the committee, but a member of the faction, yes. As for the bill, the committee has supported all three bills and please decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u5	Wait, please. So the committee said its word by responding to our criticism. So, please, is there a need for discussion? Yes. Karmazin, get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian citizens, who are now suffering precisely from the lack of political will at all to implement any Ukrainian law. This is the reason why the national deputy Tereshuk, the national deputy Mirimsky, Remenyuk and Johnov in Project 4556, then with Unit 1 and Unit 2 proposed canceling the administrative responsibility provided for in Article 53 of the Code on Administrative Offences and establishing a separate article. I will remind you of the story that we had this article, article 199 of the old codex in 1961. But we decriminalized it because we thought that administrative legislation would apply and there would be irreparability of punishment, but in July of this year, Prime Minister Janukovitch single-handedly, I stress that he is signing an order of 154 hectares of Cosinland to the World of Ways of the Company, the founder of which is Interpipe, is known to belong to, Mr. Victor Pinchuku. So the founder of this firm and the "World of the Ways," which has only a few thousand per year of revenue, will get 154 hectares of land and, by ownership, I emphasize, one stroke of Mr. Yanukovic's feathers. And 111 hectares in rent for 49 years, and then others happen. So it's interesting that in spite of these actions, I want to address the guarantor of the Constitution-President, the Attorney-General, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Stretovich. Now the newspaper Freedom reports that in the central hospital of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ukraine is in charge of the treatment of the head of the Kyiv Region, Anatoly Susuha, who was hit by three teeth, as if by the Prime Minister. I want them to tell us why. Is it because he did not give the earth? Isn't that how the Kyiv region voted? By the way, there's still a reaction to the Plain Foresters, the venerables. They're calling again, they're still asking for 10 tickets each, and now they're asking for the same from Naftogaza, just from each of the relatives. And that's all there is to it -- 160,000 tickets to predict, so I want to protect Mr. Drought, and the law needs to be adopted first, Tereshuk in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u7	Yes, please, Yavorowski, follow him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, Zovva, Yavorov, Rava Ruska, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, this law is also well overdue after all that has happened in Ukraine. I'm already, I can't imagine what this law can protect, and who it can punish, given that the law doesn't actually have reverse action. And I have absolutely no doubt that before the inauguration, and the state will obviously still be running Leonid Danilovich on the autopilot, a veto will be imposed on this bill. I have no doubt about it. But the law is, of course, very, very important. And if it had worked before, maybe this catchy instinct in many of our oligarchs would probably not have developed so strongly. I am very glad that from the rostrum, from our highest rostrum, the rostrum of the Supreme Council was brought to the Ukrainian people about what is being done around the capital today. For much smaller appetites, of course, in district executives, even less in the district. But the biggest, of course, is in Kiev. In fact, there was no good left around Kiev, either on the riverside or in the forest of a piece of land. I'm the only one against it. I think it's only on the first reading if you're going to take it. On the second reading, I will make a correction on this matter. Because those fines, those minimum wages that are set up here for a violation, there's some lousy cash up to 170 bucks. You can see for yourself when Gavrish, when Medvedchuk had already invaded Ukraine and in the Carpathian region about 40 hectares along with his own airport, and so on, when Yanukovich actually occupied the entire right bank around Kiev on the shore of Dniper, and today he's going to pay about 170 dollars a fine, I'm sure it's just funny. And you don't have to talk about it. I think we have to vote for this bill. And we'll vote. "Our Ukraine" will at least vote for it. But society is still in the world about even the injustice that I've been talking about, and it's a little bit about justice. If our authority has no political will to stop our oligarchs, I must tell you that today's decision is made by the American government and another "great four" is joined by Surkis that America will not accept them. That's why all these billions of them, the millions who have been driven there, are going to be arrested. There's also Pinchuk, there's Medvedchuk, and what I'm particularly pleased about is the Attorney-General.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u9	By the law, let's do it. Please, Anatoly Orzhachowski, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u10	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, voters! At the beginning of my speech, I will support the legislative effort to strengthen the administrative and criminal responsibility for the illegal occupation of the land. While in the regions, seeing what is happening to our land, of course, I would like to have the responsibility of those who have brought our Ukrainian lands to the limitless wolf, weeds, rodents, snakes, and I can say that because I know and have not been in one region of the Hersonian region. Like colleagues in the faction of the Ukrainian Company, it is appropriate to elaborate the proposed bills in order to obtain the desired result and obtain a full law that will solve the problems that are being posed today. According to the history and personal experience of council work, the earth was the subject of collisions at various times of the development of nations. The land line is what caused human conflicts, caused family unrest, and the neighbors. In Soviet times, when the land belonged to the State and the citizens used it for farming, housing construction, the problem was greatly simplified, although there was also little room for arbitrary occupation of land, especially near multiple floors, neighbouring borders, garage construction, and so forth. However, the planning system, state ownership, system of laws, morals, and similar problems allowed for legal solutions. In times of Ukrainian independence and many of the issues of total chaos, politicians overturned land reform, leading human feelings to a openly belligerent state. The earth code predicted existence at the level of the local councils of observation committees. However, in order to resolve this negative phenomenon, they do not have sufficient arguments, and the services of experts and courts are needed. That's why every day we see an experimented-out people going to break existing legislation, including the question under discussion. But I'm not saying in any way that it's mass, because today's bill is primarily supposed to cover the road with the encroachment of oligarchs and other extremists of different kinds who take valuable land across the Black Sea and in other regions of Ukraine. The bill, the authors of which are the national deputies Tereshuk, Remenjuk, John, should, indeed, decide this fate. But the task of authority today is at hand with an administrative and criminal responsibility to be honest about the allocation of suitable land rations and so on and so forth. Otherwise, our fellow countrymen will have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u11	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to make a statement on this issue to the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, because we are dealing directly with land issues. First of all, I note that the disputes over land ownership, their use, were always acute and resolved in a tense environment. We know how often they fight outside the neighborhood. This issue is particularly acute now that land has become the property of many citizens. The price of land as the most valuable and reliable capital was felt by all. As a result, it has increased the arbitrary takeovers of land in individual regions, even in large numbers. Combating these manifestations by administrative means in accordance with the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, where minor fines are the instrument of influence, has become ineffective. Therefore, a member of our committee, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code, No. 4556. Two alternative national deputies later arrived, Miriam and Romanyuk, and Ivanov. The committee believes that they all deserve attention and differ only from the harshness of the punishment for the arbitrary capture of the land. As a result, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt Bill No. 4556 of the People's Deputies of Tereshuk, and to take others into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u13	The honourable national deputies, because they are draft inadmissibility decrees, the author of this draft decree is Leonid Černovetský, and he has the floor to justify his position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Our Ukraine faction, Christian Liberal Party, Leonid Chernovetski. Well, first of all, I support the noble efforts of the communists to give each oligarch not a piece of land, but another place. And that's perfectly fair. And the law is necessary, but not now. The zones in Ukraine, it's for everyone who listens to us, they don't work at all. If that's news to you, it's not news to every communist and every socialist. Laws don't work. The judge collects bribes, the heads of all rural agencies write acts to oligarchs, villains, and 100 miles [100 km] of land each day. And they're all confused that today, to get a communist piece of land in one square centimeter, you have to be at least a national MP. It is not that the earth, even it will not look at you, that God will not give you a deputy. That's what we're talking about. This law must be postponed until the rule of law is in Ukraine. He's not in time. The main law that the Communists support and that is constantly not put in the Hall by the Supreme Council leadership, is it? Today, we must vote on the Law on the Elimination of the Value Added Tax, which the oligarchs steal, yes, along with thousands of kilometres of land. And soon we'll be flying in the air. That's true. What the law proposes today. Every unfortunate citizen, yes, to whom to live for nothing and who has come out of his territory and planted a few tomatoes on one square metre, will be brought to justice. It'll be an unfortunate communist, first of all. Because they're decent people, they're not oligarchs, yeah, they work in their own backyard, and you put them in jail for what? There is a civil liability. I ask the author of the law, a noble man, to abandon him today. That's the right thing to do. Not just backing up my ruling, yeah, who's yelling, yeah. There are millions of our people who have been forgotten by the State in general. The maximum that they can do today is take and smell some oligarch's Negativity and grow two cucumbers more than they're supposed to. Please, give up this law. Don't just vote for my ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u15	Thank you. Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Bills are closed. May I have your attention, please? In accordance with the Rules, the draft decree on the non-admissibility of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the liability for the arbitrary occupation of the land area, the non-admissibility of draft regulation 4556 is first voted. The author is national deputy Sergei Tereshuk. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:24:23]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, honourable national MPs have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4556, author of national deputy Sergei Tereshuk]] Please vote. [[16:25:03]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 39, Ukraine - 51, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 4, Labour Ukraine - 20, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 6, Union - 7, only Ukraine - 0, Center - 7, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 5, Deminiciative - People's Government - 4, Postfaction - 5. Next thing you know, we'll come back. Dear colleagues! Now the next project is 4556-1, the authors Mirimsky and Remenyuk. But there is also a draft decree on inadmissibility. Is Andrew School in the session room? None. I put to the vote a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the illegal occupation of land. [[Registration number 4556-1]] [[16:26:24]] For-75 The decision is not taken. There's nothing in the factions to give here. Let's go to the factions, please. Our Ukraine is 68, the Ukrainian regions are 0, the Communist faction is 0, the Communist faction is 0, the Labour Party is 0, the National Agrarian Party is 0, the SPI is 0, the Timoshenko Block is 7, the Union is 0, the only Ukraine is 0, the Centre is 0, the NDP, the industrialists and entrepreneurs, the Deminitiates, the non-fractional is zero. The vote is based on draft law, registration number 4556-1, authors Mirimsky, Remenjuk on amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences on illegal land use. Please Identify [[16:27:28]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law, registration number 4556-2. Author, Ukrainian National MP - Ivanov: On amending some Ukrainian legislation on the arbitrary occupation of the land. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:28:08]] For-39 Ladies and gentlemen, the first project won 188 votes -- the most, that is, we held a rating vote. Why don't we go over it again as a basis? Shall we vote? May I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, well, I see your acceptance of this proposal, and I have to submit to your will. It is put to the vote, for adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law, registration number 4556: Regarding amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, by Sergey Tereshuk. Please vote. Yes. Here comes the vote, let's vote. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, let's vote. Please vote. [[16:29:03]] For-144 Dear National MPs, there is a proposal for a re-reading of the first reading to correct the project. Sergei Tereshuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, we have voted in a friendly manner today to impose a moratorium on trade in land. Let's take one more step. Let us not yet give the opportunity to simply take away the earth. If the bill is supported today, I suggest we re-read the bill. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u17	There's no motive. The draft regulation 4556 for re-reading is submitted to your consideration and vote. Please vote. [[16:30:11]] For 242 Decisions were made. With Proskuratov's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, yesterday a statement was made that a hospital in the maternity ward in Cherkas district was refused service without strong vouchers. I received a letter asking to sound such a problem that "we, doctors of the maternity ward of the Cherka district hospital, were indignant at the information that was received at the meeting of the Supreme Council. The election was in accordance with the law." And they're asked to bring this information to all the members of the Supreme Council. The same message came from patients. Patients in the maternity ward of the Cherka District Hospital, who were treated during the presidential election tour, are said to have experienced no pressure from either the health department or the district vote board. Please report this information to all members of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u19	Dear National Deputies! Please, Cherniwiecki. From the place, please, please. And it's not for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, the Communist Criminal Proclamation Bill on Earth is good, and when you sent him to the re-vote, is my only request, right? By the way, I didn't say "Our Ukraine", the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Leonid Chernowitz. But only you will make such an amendment. That there is no criminal responsibility for ordinary people with an average income level. It's for the oligarchs, the directors of the red-hot colchuses, for them, isn't it? Sokhoz. Yeah. For them, the criminal responsibility is tenfold. And for the heads of the rural administration and the curse of life. That's what you have to say. That's when the law is being drafted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending article 289 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on illegal possession of means of transport is being considered. Registration number 5144. Reporter to the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, revered Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The project proposes to reduce the amount of criminal punishment provided for in the second and third parts of article 289 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code for illegal possession of a means of transport. And to exclude material criteria as one of the reasons why a person’s actions are qualified under part three of this article. In addition, it is suggested that in the third part of article 289 the task of major material harm should be included, and that article 289 should be supplemented with a footnote three to determine the extent of major damage. The committee members supported the bill. The main science-expert management, too. And we suggest that we take it as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u23	Thank you, Volodymyr Romanovich. We need to exchange our thoughts on this matter. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin To prepare Mary Marcus. No, now Carmazin, then you. Suit yourself. Yuri Anatolyovich, hurry, please, time is moving relentlessly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u24	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Yes, indeed, so far as Odessa is occupied, you are true Communist comrades. I think since the 21st, we're going to release her, because that unprecedented pressure that's being made in Odessa right now has a bearing, and your communists know about it, but they don't. But I believe that under these sun flags, the sun will burn in Odessa, not just tuberculosis, but other infections, other infections, and all that. Please don't disturb me. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, they're distracting me. Honourable National MPs, the bill proposes, on the one hand, to reduce sanctions in part two and part three of article 289 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, on the one hand. And on the other hand, from 4 to 8 years, instead of 5 to 10 years, there's nothing wrong with it, as if it were ensuring the irreparability of punishment. But the irreparability of punishment so far, Mr. Moses, is not guaranteed by this power, this militia, this prosecutor's office, this Security Service. Do you know that part of the Security Service prepares families for evacuation, as during the Chernobyl disaster? Why? They're getting ready for the power grid. Ladies and gentlemen, a hundred buses are now standing by the police at River Station. Why? Where did they come from? They're all pink helmets, Donnie's, Herson's numbers. Please tell me why it's a strain to build on the Podoli, near Victor Yushchenk's headquarters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u25	Yuri Anatolyevich, let's talk about illegal possession.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u26	I'm telling you, they're under police protection, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And there could be illegal capture, even by headquarters, not just. HQ, I mean Victor Yushchenk, yes, and the threat of movement. This is the first time. And at the same time, there's a lot of cars in the museum alley, and you know where the shadow headquarters of Andria Cloev is looking at funding these polling stations. That's right there, ladies and gentlemen, now 20 militiamen armed with teeth are completely, in armor, with guns, with machine guns. With the machine guns, I told you, it seemed like cannons. But they're in the way. Dear National Deputies! The positive thing about this bill is that the footnote to article 289 is complemented by a provision that recognizes the damage to be significant in the event of actual damage from 1,700 dollars to 4,250 dollars, and a large one in the event of damage, over 4,250 dollars. This bill has many flaws, but it must be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u27	Maria Marcus. Microphone, please turn it on. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u28	Maria Marcus. Dear colleagues, I support the prescribed bill of reasons cited by the chairman of the committee of Moses. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which is designed to apply to a condemned punishment that will be sufficient to correct a person, limit his or her ability to commit a new crime and at the same time deter him or her from committing the crimes of others. However, the sanctions of certain articles of the Criminal Code set out the extent to which a convicted person is punished that does not correspond to the social danger of the crime committed. The subject of criminal assault under article 278 of the Criminal Code is the railway rolling stock of air, water, and ships, but the sanctions are lower than those provided for in article 289 where automobiles, motor vehicles, and vehicles are the object of the attack. Nevertheless, the sanctions of article 289 are far more severe and do not match the gravity and social dangers of the crime committed. The main purpose of adopting the proposed draft Law is to apply such punishment to the condemned, which corresponds to the gravity and social danger of the crime committed. The proposed changes are more humane and will correspond to the seriousness of the crimes that have been committed, as provided for in article 289. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u29	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Turn on the microphone. Get ready, nigger. Is there a black guy? You won't?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u30	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block As a car driver, I'm just going to say that we actually have such huge problems today, actually all those old houses -- there are no garages anywhere, there are no underground garages. Just now, there's something there that the quiet oligarchs are starting to sew on this problem, right on this hill, the holy hill, where the palace of Mary, they're building for themselves oligarchy houses, and there's probably going to be a lot of familiar faces to live on. Because of this, it's really a big problem for stealing cars, because cars usually just sleep in the street, just in the yard, including my car, too. That's why I'm in favour of, in fact, making these amendments, they're making the situation a little bit softer, and of course we're going to vote, I mean, "Our Ukraine," we're going to vote for this bill. With half a minute to go, I just want to keep up with what my fellow MP Dry said here yesterday. They published, I think it's an SDPU, their handwriting, they've issued such a society, they've issued such a dictionary. In Russia, there are beautiful writers, the same Rasputin, who use the dialectic Russian words "toucher," "batter," " frequent," beautiful root Ukrainian words. We have as many beautiful dialectic words as we do in English. So what do they do? They're scaring Donbas, which they say is what you're being forced to do. That's why I want to give Mr. Dryo the beautiful words that are here. Mr. Suhi, this very beautiful Ukrainian word is called "biganka," so I'm translating you into Russian is "dysentery," and it's also "fast," and that's just to make sure you remember it, it'll be interesting for you. Or, let's say, "snatch," but in Russian, it's "snatch," it's "snatch." And the last one, "shuia," is, for the record, "shuval," "shuval." "Shusher." Beautiful words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, come on, we're not looking at linguistics here for any exercises or rules. Is there a nigger named Vladimir Kirilovich? None. Wait, please. Well, let's get this over with. You're not a replica, but you can take it out of the vote, because it doesn't work. Oh, it was a nickname, wasn't it? I'm sorry, it has a dry line, because the name was mentioned. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u32	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, "Trudova Ukraine". I'm not calling anyone's last name, I'm reminding you that my speech was called "anxious" because it's not just some kind of dialogue, it's an official dictionary, it's a great interpretation dictionary of Ukrainian language, which is recommended by the Ministry of Education for Schools. According to this dictionary, our children will write dictators, works. Count our speech with polonicism. It's not English at all. And I thought I'd hear some professional conclusions or some professional concern. And all these double morals and double approaches, double standards from Our Ukraine -- I've been used to them for a long time and I'm not surprised. And I'm really sorry that people who have philological education don't realize that there's a big threat to the English language, and it needs to be addressed. The Ukrainian language is established: it is the language of Frank and Shevchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask, with your permission, Mikhail Vasilovich Korniyenka to express her thoughts, not her own, but the government's reasoning, about the draft law that we are considering. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill submitted and asks for it to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal to vote is to adopt the draft Law amending article 289 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on illegal possession of means of transport as the basis for the first reading. Registration number 5144. [[16:43:38]] For 227 Decision taken. We accepted it as a foundation. Roast, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Just a few minutes ago, a bill was distributed in the session room under number 6348 entitled “On the specialities of applying the Ukrainian Law on the elections of the President of Ukraine in the re-vote”. In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to put to the vote the question of including this bill in the agenda of today's plenary session so that we can discuss it and make a decision on it in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u37	Indeed, at the Conciliation Board meeting, honourable colleagues discussed the offer she had made. One minute, dear fellows. Jake. was proposed by Julius Volodymyr Tymoshenko, and we have thus agreed that after the document has been handed out, we will vote on its inclusion in the agenda and consideration. If the Supreme Council takes him into consideration, then we will consider him. If not, we'll keep working. Please, calm down. Dear National Deputies! A vote is taken on the proposal to include Ukraine in the agenda and to review the draft law on the specificities of the Ukrainian law on the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004. Registration number 6348. Please make up your mind. [[16:45:55]] For 244 Decision taken. Please, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. Let us go to the practical consideration of the document. Please give me a brief explanation of the suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, considered the committee. The Committee on Legal Policy considered a bill tabled by the National MP, Oleg Belarus, in exchange for the previous draft on the specificities of the Ukrainian law on presidential elections in the re-vote on 21 November 2004. You have this bill on your hands. The bill proposes the establishment of legal guarantees so that there will be no falsification for reinforced certificates on the day of the vote on November 21, 2004. Strong certificates issued until the day of the vote and clarifications made in the election lists are provided on the basis of strong certificates that are considered invalid. A voter who has obtained a resilient certificate that is declared invalid under this law has the right to vote for the place where he was included in the voter list on the ordinary election committee. There is no vote on the electorate outside the voting room. Citizens who, for health reasons or for other important reasons, cannot come to the polling station on their own, are provided with election committees, transport facilities, including special voting facilities. The electoral bulletin is issued on the basis of three signatures of a member of the electoral committee who issues an electoral ballot and two members of the panel who officially represent the various candidates for the post of President of Ukraine who are put on the ballot for re-vote. In the event that it is not possible to sign the ballots of any of the selected members of the electoral panel, another member of the electoral commission shall make a reasoned decision. Election ballots that do not have at least one of the above-mentioned signatures of members of the electoral commission are considered invalid. The decision of the territorial and regional electoral committees to terminate the election committee or a member of the electoral commission later than two days before the day of the re-voting is invalid. Voting at the polling station during the re-voting exercise on 21 November may be declared invalid on the basis of article 80 of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act. The committee unanimously supported the amendments to the Presidential Elections Act, which it believes is necessary to make these changes so that there is no mass falsification in the election. I think I represent the opinion of the Committee that there are interested representatives of different political forces, as well as both candidates for the presidency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u39	Please report to the reporter for 3 minutes. On the board of names: George Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u40	You don't? Boris Unburned. There is, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u41	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, I absolutely agree that we must adopt such a law and that it is necessary today to stop the mass vacchanal that is being done. When people rape and take away voices, in fact. And I'm aware that my own voice might fail because I'm going to watch the elections in another region, but please tell me what it's going to be like for those citizens who really wanted and could write a statement, please tell me: how you see it, and how you see it, or how you see it today, or how you can directly adopt it today to be signed by the President. How do you think the president's gonna do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u42	Thank you. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Your question is the answer in our draft Law, read it, there are not many clauses, there are four points. And since the President will sign, I think that the President is simply obliged to sign as a guarantor of the Constitution, which provides for free will and any lack of falsification in the elections. Therefore, we are confident that the President will sign the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u43	The question of Boris, Oleg Bezlogo, please, Oleg Bezlogo, please. Is it? None. Loboda, Michael Loboda, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u44	May I have Ponmarenko, Georgi Grigorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u45	George Ponomarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u46	Vasil Vasilovich, you know perfectly well that there is no law of retroactive force. By law, it's a hard-on. I'm asking a question. This is the first one that's ever been issued. The other one. This is for the veto to be imposed because we're not allowing the vote to take place. It's different. You know, on the second round, 49 bracelets for road transport to the district commission, that's two men bringing in, and that's 90, which is 95 years old. Third. They wrote from each candidate, three men from each candidate, two candidates and two representatives from the commission only exist. And third, according to the jury. It's in the law, but it's not in practice. I think, well, you know what.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u47	Georgiy Georgievich, I thank you very much for the amendment and, really, I think we just have to write down the "court" and the jury, it's meant to create a constitution, it's authorized, but it's not there. So you've really made an absolutely principled amendment. And I'm just taking off my hat in front of you for such a constructive offer. And as for what needs to be delivered, the funds go evenly, and people go there. And there, according to the Constitution, there is no secret to voting when the relevant interested persons go to the house and, accordingly, you know how they vote. So I'm asking you to support this bill on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u48	Jaroslav Suhi, please give me one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u49	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, "Trudova Ukraine". Dear Vassil Vasilovich, please tell us what it will look like from the point of view of normotechnics and jurisprudence. Other candidates for the office of President of Ukraine fought under one rule. For these two candidates, we make some separate rules. And what happens when there's a lawsuit for declaring such an election invalid, first of all. It's different. In view of the fact that one MP votes in favour of ten today in the session room, I firmly deny that this bill today should be voted on as a whole, even if it is voted in the first reading. I have a warning for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u50	Mr. Jaroslave, the inadvertent recognition of elections takes place at certain locations. And you know, that kind of court practice is, but what's in the areas, not within the territorial constituency. The Supreme Court ruled on the Cherkas Court of Appeal, which you know is not valid in the district, but in the constituency. That's why there's a Civil Procedure Code. There are no administrative courts, and the courts of general jurisdiction are considering the matter. From the point of view of the legal procedure, there is no objection. This law is material, not procedural, and it can change certain rules for the future. What's more, Mr. Jaroslav, I'm addressing you, the more we have practice in the Supreme Court when we actually did this. The committee believes that it should be accepted both as a basis and as a whole, because otherwise there is no point in accepting it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, let's now determine the vote on this bill. Because, in such a situation, honourable national MPs, we must either adopt or not adopt this law because we disorganize all election committees by adopting it in the first reading or by not adopting it in general. So I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a bill of bill, registration number 6348. Here comes the vote. [[16:56:03]] For 236 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the assignment of temporary State assistance to children is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5744. The reporter is the Chernobyl Leonid. Prepare for the Musiani committee Victor Lavrentiovich. Please report to Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u52	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Leonid Chernovetski. Thanks to you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have lived to one of my main laws, about a hundred of which I want to list: this is the law on the elimination of the drugs and the privileges of all branches of government. If I live to see it voted and adopted here, well, it will be the greatest achievement for Ukraine at all. Both the law on the elimination of VAT and many others. But today, a very important law seems to be to your attention. This is a very simple development for the law. If we, Ukraine, have lost several million people since the 1990s. Today, we can regret this, say many different words, for what reasons this has happened, although we know it. But we are interested in increasing the population of Ukraine at the expense of young people. Nobody wants to have children today because there's nothing to live for, there's no jobs, there's corruption, there's arbitrary, there's no law. I proposed in my law the simplest thing - a woman gave birth to a child, she's not chasing her husband, or who was she there, who promised her gold years when he started having a baby, right? And then, in an indistinguishable direction, he went missing. What about other countries? We, the State, assume the responsibility of giving birth to a woman, who pays a certain amount of content for that child. And then, through executive service, he's chasing a disgruntled dad who doesn't pay for those elements. Millions of such cases! This law is very important, and I ask that it be voted on in general, because the demographic situation in Ukraine, our future as a European country, depends on it. We shouldn't have our kids digging in garbage waiting for the dad to pay for their alimony, they should get help from the State. Please, the law is simple, clear and without any double treatment. Vote it in general and give our women the respect they deserve when they produce a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u53	Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, please head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u54	The honourable colleagues mentioned in the bill are proposed by law. Is there a sound? Thank you. It is legislative to regulate the appointment of government assistance to children who have been abandoned by their parents because their parents do not know where they live, or parents do not pay alimony, or they do not have the means to provide material support for their children. The committee acknowledged that this proposal deserved attention and deserved to be, indeed, more carefully regulated by the law than by the Cabinet of Ministers, the appointment order, the appointment procedure itself. And here's what we've pointed out is that in terms of the idea itself, we can't accept the order that the author himself proposed in the bill. He did not harmonize this arrangement with the already existing arrangement for assisting children in large families, and for assisting children is the law and a number of other laws that provide for the welfare of families and children. And in this case, we think that this bill can be adopted today as a basis, and then it's to be worked out, and we're already going to propose not a second reading of the bill that has been drafted. In the first reading, we suggest that we adopt a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u55	Let's move on to the discussion. Who insists on the discussion? Yuri Carmazin, please. Then Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to welcome you to the adoption of a law that will make it impossible for everyone to be counterfeited in a gift election. I think the President of Ukraine is a wise man, he will sign this law, I hope so, especially after the stimulus that the United States Senate has made. Thus, honourable national MPs, the law that now proposes to the national deputy of Chernevski, surely should be thanked for both the idea and the execution, because for Chernewsky no matter how these children are financed, how it will comply with the Law on State Assistance for Families with Children. Why doesn't it matter? He's laying the foundation for the child, and that's exactly what we need to see in this law as the most important thing. Because it avoids sitting in places where a parent is deprived of his or her will, but the main thing is that this child is unable to support himself, there is no money for it. And she has to beg or somehow not have the standard that the Constitution requires us to make for each child. So I think, despite the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority had a reference to this law, I would like to thank Mr. Musiaci, our colleague, who said that we should be accepted in the first reading. It was really a proposal from our committee. We see that we should, the Committee on Legal Policy, adopt this law. It is clear that the legislative initiative to provide financial assistance to minors at the expense of the State budget will contribute to the protection of children’s rights. And then it will be determined by the state, as it comes from the state. Which of the parents avoids and will be drawn from these people’s money. What is happening today? Today, the mother who does not receive alimony is now the grandmother with whom she has stayed. and the child, and full of such children, is forced to walk, to climb the thresholds, and for months this aid is not assigned. Who among you does not have such references and letters in respect of the MPs? They're all there. So let's adopt this law in the first reading, and let's ask the committee to work on it as quickly as possible, to agree with others, so the reconciliation mechanism isn't really as complicated as it seems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u57	Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction, would you please speak? Microphone, please turn it on. Maria Marcus, please turn on the microphone. Mironenko's passing on Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u58	Please pass the word Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u59	Microphone, please turn on Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u60	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the assignment of temporary State assistance to children, sponsored by Leonid Cherniewecki, is an extremely necessary bill. It refers to helping children who are left with parental care, whose parents are unable to pay alimony, or lack of work for their parents, and many others. These are mostly economic reasons why parents are unable to support their children. Many children are now in the custody of grandparents whose parents have gone to work outside of Ukraine and who are not allowed to know for themselves for a long time. These children were left without parental care. Regarding the reference made by a representative of the legal committee to what is the law on child support and assistance to many families, these are various bills, since in this case the interests of the most vulnerable part of the child society are protected. I think the bill should be adopted and I suggest you vote for it. Our faction will personally vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u61	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone, please. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u62	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Zovkwa, Yavorov, Rava Ruska, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It seems to me that it's just a very nice tradition that the Ukrainian Parliament is at a time when someone has already prophesied that they should hang a castle and forget it at all, and whatever the web is here, it is storming and conquering in some of the deep humanitarian problems of our Ukrainian society. It's really nice that the last sessions of our, literally, demographic picture of the problem of Ukrainian youth and what we are, give me a word of, but today we're down or raised, more precisely, even to such a problem as to be when one of the parents avoids paying their child, I think that Chernewsky here is absolutely right in proposing such a mechanism. And I'm sure we'll all vote for him today. It may be necessary to specify a mechanism for it later, but I think the idea is just acceptable. And if there is the political will of the executive branch, this bill will protect another segment of the Ukrainian people, those children during this period of this inter-seasonal search for their parents. That's why I'm convinced that we're going to vote for this bill, and once again, it's very good that we're here with you people's deputies, doing a good job of looking into the problems of our society. This is much better than when the current regime is currently playing such a video on the Internet that Victor Yushchenko will not be able to control the country he spoke to. What a lie, what hypocrisy, which falseness is spreading today. That's why I'm addressing voters today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u63	By subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u64	Don't believe that. Don't believe this. It's a lie. Yushchenko is healthy and powerful. Yushchenko is the future president.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u65	Thank you. Yes, Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I support my colleague, Deputy Yavorowski, in his unrestrained drive to victory in the elections, but in fact the Law, I will say the following: He proposed a series of social laws, some of which we passed and one of them was approved and one of them is coming today. I think it should be adopted, no doubt, by this law, but not in the first reading, but in general. If we accept it in the first reading, we will not feed the children. It is necessary for the wheel to be turned around to get the courts to work, to be sued, and then to be able to make any changes to this Law, to other laws. But the solution to this present, social problem needs to be addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u67	Yes. Now. One minute, one minute, please calm down, one minute. Suprun Vasil Fedorovich. Turn off the microphone, it'll be time for you to come out. Suprun Vasil Fedorovich, First Deputy Minister of Justice, position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u68	Dear Mikhailovich, Honourable People’s Deputies, the Government certainly supports the idea of strengthening the social protection of such a category of children — children deprived of parental care. At the same time, the proposed bill is not supported. And that is not only the Government, but also the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which was involved in this, in the expertise of the bill, except our government structures such as Mineconomy, Minffin, Minpraci, Min. family, young people. Why is it not supported? Despite the idea of strengthening social protection, we believe that the bill today is completely inconsistent with the existing system of support for such a category of children. Not only is it because, according to the original wording of article 181 of the Family Code, such order is determined by the government but it is also because, for example, article 1 of the Child Protection Act lists children — children deprived of parental care — who are subjected to care and care for adoption or placement in the family of citizens. The Law on State Aid for Families with Children states that children under such care or care of social protection authorities are assigned assistance of a size equal to the difference between a child’s subsistence minimum and the average monthly child’s alimony and pensions of the previous six months. The Law on State Social Assistance also identifies sources of funding for low - income families. The government’s arrangement for providing State social assistance to low-income families, which, in accordance with the above article of the Family Code, is designed to provide temporary material support to children, is, in our opinion, flexible in making decisions regarding assistance, while ensuring targetedness and social justice for children in need of financial support. If necessary, if the parents ’ place of residence is unknown or avoid payment, appropriate adjustments may be made directly to the order determined by the government or central executive authorities that have approved the method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u69	The final word of the author of the project. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u70	I see that this important law is being obeyed by the women of Ukraine. He might be on the right hand side because there's not enough people on the right. This will also be a problem for the conscience. I tell you that what the representative says to the government, I'm not with any government, why it can't be accepted on first reading, and I have to accept it in general, never with any government will I solve this issue. Because that's understandable, that's the extra cost. But these are the expenses that God himself has made for us to spend on our children. Thank God if the Deputy Minister of Justice was brought up and his dad didn't run away from him in time. But we have this problem everywhere. Because there's a way for parents to make money. I ask you to support this bill as a whole, both in first reading and in general. And shame to those who don't vote for him. Because today our Ukrainian women need their children to be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u71	I would ask Leonid Mikhailovich to take the Deputy Minister seriously, especially since he has no opportunity to answer you equally from this rostrum. Let's respect each other. Polishchuk and Onechuk with motive, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Assignment of Temporary State Assistance to Children should be adopted. But look closely at that name. Temporary State aid to children. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. We can help our children all the time. Today, November 18th is an international day of non-smoking. Smoking is not just for smokers but also for those around them. It's called passive smoking. Women who smoke a lot have four times the chance of dying from lung cancer. Newborn smoking parents are twice as likely to have pneumonia or bronchitis during their first year of life. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you again. Think of the laws that should be adopted besides them. Those who look forward will allow the people of Ukraine to be reborn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u73	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the People's Democratic Party and industrialists and entrepreneurs. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear Chairman. The faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs supports this bill in its first reading. He really has a clear social orientation called to worry about the most expensive thing in Ukraine today, it's children, because it's the future of the country. But he's not ready, this bill, to be approved in general. There is a series of legal norms that should be brought up by the committee to be clean during its second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I would ask all national deputies to read not only the title of the laws but also the essence of the law, since it is temporary State support. This involves that if parents are unknown where or temporarily unable to support their children. The situation will change, and they will have opportunities to provide their children with everything they need. Then the state aid will, say, be removed. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the assignment of temporary State assistance to children. Registration number 5744. Please vote. [[17:17:48]] For 279 Decision taken. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. That's enough! Please don't abuse me! A draft Law is being announced for consideration. And after you, no one else has to act, right? Of course. Calm down, please. It's being announced. Before voting in accordance with the Rules on the grounds or on the basis of the voting procedure, a member shall have the right to speak. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Service Act is being announced for consideration. [[on assignment of rankings]] Registration number 2375. You'd better thank the people's deputies for supporting you in this law as opposed to the faction. Calm down, please! Feldman Alexander Borisovich, please. It's all fair. I'm going to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u76	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The bill that I have proposed aims to improve the procedure for assigning rank to the staff of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to eliminate conflicts in the pension security of the staff members. First of all, I propose to amend article 26, “Rangs of civil servants”. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that the ranks that are in charge of the first category are assigned by the President of Ukraine. The ranks corresponding to the second category are assigned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the rankings corresponding to the third-seventh category are assigned to the Head of the Government, in which the staff are employed. I believe that it is necessary to legislate the right of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish the rank of staff members of the Supreme Council, whose posts are assigned to the second category of staff. There is now a brief discussion of the substance of the issue of the pension provision of staff members. The project I am proposing is addressing the contradictions in the approaches to the accrual of pensions for staff members. Pursuant to article 33 of the Civil Service Wages Act, the salary is composed of an official salary, a premium, a rating allowance, a service allowance and other allowances. The same article specified that other allowances should be considered for high achievements in work and for the performance of a particularly important job, for the performance of the duties of a temporary employee and others. Article 37 of the Act provides that persons entitled to a pension of an employee shall be granted an 80 per cent pension of their official salary, taking into account the allowances provided for in the Act. The additions I have proposed to article 37 of the Act provide an explanation of the amount of this 80 per cent, namely, the amount of the salary, which is set out in article 33 of the Act, taking into account all the allowances they have received. In my view, therefore, not only will the issue that often arises when the pension is accrued to the pensioner be exhausted but it will also become impossible for subjectivism to approach this issue. As a result, the authority of the public service will be enhanced, enabling highly qualified, literate and promising professionals to engage in this work. Please support my project, it's about our assistants with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u77	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich. From the Dry Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! The bill of colleague Feldman was considered by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. We took into account that this is about those people who are with us all the time, from the first and the last day of our caedence, from the first to the last day of our work in the Supreme Council with us. These are the employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is clear that the current Law on State Service has allowed for a variety of readings and even contradictions regarding the ranks of these civil servants. So two of Feldman’s suggestions merit attention. And I propose that we vote in the session room for these proposals. He further said that it would certainly be acceptable to meet the proposal that individuals who are employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be given the rank of civil servants in the second category by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, you heard, the second sentence, she also heard. Because so far, the level of wages from which the pension was calculated has not been clearly defined. The legislative level of wages plus a variety of low wage allowances is now defined, and the allowance is determined by that percentage of government employees' pension. And there are comments that we have made on the committee: The second reading may need to be overcome. It means that for the second reading or if we agree, here you can make a decision by vote that rank to all, without exception, government officials, who are employees of the Supreme Council, regardless of the category, are appointed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's either the second one, or here, if you can make it out of the voice. So the committee's decision is this: after considering the bill, taking into account the positive conclusion of our Executive Board, the committee members decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u79	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yuri Anatolyevich, the session room says there is no need to discuss it. How do you see it? Please, Karmazin. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear people's deputies, well, first of all, I'm not tired, that's what I'm saying for the regionals, don't worry, I've got a lot of strength left. I would like to say that this bill is absolutely necessary because it proposes to amend the State Service Act, where there are so many disadvantages and so far the requirements of which are being violated in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, for that reason, I've said repeatedly that there's never been a public service competition. They didn't. And the law is binding on you and me for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, I think it is absolutely right that all rankings, without exception, to state officials who are employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in independence - I stress, independently - from the category, should be established by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's that? What does it look like today? Today, it appears that the Head of the Supreme Council is assigned to the 4th rank here, and then he submits the submission to the body under the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, the government. How does this even look? In which country is this? There is no such thing in any country. In addition, the distinguished Adam Ivanovich, I have very qualified and decent workers. They are like that in most Ukrainian national deputies, and today we are very offended by the fact that their wages do not correspond to what is determined today by the law and the position of the helper. It says it's double. Double salary of the Ukrainian national deputy. And there's only 0.6 of the total double salary there today. Count it, please, and you will see it. Moreover, how to raise ranks today for those national deputies who have long worked, who are serious professionals, who then see themselves somewhere in the public service in other institutions, and that is perfectly normal. We see that Mr. Mager is now one of the decent people who grew up from a consulting assistant to a member of the Central Commission, in which now, you see how many violations there are, but there must be decent people. So I would suggest that we systematically assign the committee to protect the rights of our assistants and raise the rank of civil servant to not the seventh one that is yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u81	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, especially for the appreciation of those who work for the majority. Yavorowski, no. Are you going to be Solomon, or are you going to put it in my reserve? Solomonine, please. He's followed by a nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u82	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! When you and I first come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we go to the committees and to that staff, to those secretarial workers who work there with us, with us and after us. That's why I, as Ukraine's national deputy, accepted that definition. The MPs come and go, and his greatness, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, remains. And that's why we need you to make sure that we create the right conditions for these people who work for the state and work for the deputies of all the cadences that are going on. So we would like to thank our colleague, National Deputy Feldman Alexander Borisovich, for raising this issue to the right level, for the substance of the question being put and discussed. And at the end of my speech, I have to say. Our faction has considered this issue carefully and has determined that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u83	Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! The question of rank and rank is always a very important question, I'd say a big question. Because society can't do without it because it's equal, it's all equal, it's equal, it's rank, it's rank, it's degree, and maybe we can't avoid it right now, we need to put some order into it. I support the bill, I support the MPs who have already said so. And there's a good suggestion in the bill: Part 5 of article 26 to complete with the words, "except for rankings assigned to persons who are employees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Rangs corresponding to the positions of the 2nd category are assigned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's absolutely right, absolutely logical and, I think, we have every reason to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u85	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. I put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Service, which prior to the assignment of rank, the registration number of Bill 2375. Please vote. [[17:30:28]] For 265 Decision taken. There is a draft Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Social Security, registration number 5663. National MP Anastasiev Valentin Alexiyovich will report, please, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u86	Anastasiav, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, proposed to you a draft Ukrainian law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies, has been prepared at the fair request of the Ukrainian People's Deputies for previous calls. The point is that today's legislation does not indicate which health facilities have the right to serve the people's deputies of previous appointments. This leads to various misunderstandings, different conversations, and sometimes to denial of medical care. There are also transport problems, this is transport for a trip to a clinic, a pharmacy, a sanatorium, a Conche Zaspa, a Desert Lake. It is difficult for former parliamentarians to travel in urban transport. The Supreme Council's autobase for these travels does not provide for transport, as this law does not record it. This issue is particularly problematic for pensioners, older persons and former members of the people. There is therefore a need to take care of former colleagues and prepare them for second reading to reflect on the satisfaction and other needs. Supplements do not require significant financial resources, as they are only drafting and specific. The limit. Cars do not change for up to 10 hours a month. Therefore, I ask the distinguished deputies to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u87	Thank you, Valentin Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The committee considered the draft Law introduced by the National Deputies Anastasia and Kulczynski. And I largely agreed with the comments made in particular in the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers. And he thinks it's necessary to propose some clarifications, and two of them, in particular, are meant to write instead of words in the law "other needs" to write down other needs related to healing and treatment. And instead of the words "medical and other medical institutions," as the Cabinet of Ministers suggests, write down "health facilities." With these proposals in mind, the committee believes that if appropriate editorial rights were introduced to the bill, it could be adopted today as a basis, as well as in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I don't think it's necessary to discuss it. Everybody knows, it's a problem. That's why I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies, registration number 5663. [[on social security]] Please vote. [[17:35:10]] For 252 Would there be any objection if, given the amendments that Valentin Grigorovich made, we agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Scientific and Scientific Chief Executives, we accepted it as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? Then I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the amendments that Matthew Valentin Grigorovich was talking about, the Act amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, registration number 5663. Please vote as the law. [[17:35:59]] For 261 The law is passed. Thank you. There's a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. There are two bills, number 4402 and 5761. First of all, Viacheslav Stanislavovich. I can't see. Son of a bitch, Sergey Grigorovitch, please. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u90	The bill provides for the establishment of a special merit pension before Ukraine for incapacitated members of the family of military personnel who died in service duties or died as a result of injuries sustained in the course of service duties or associated with involvement in hostilities in the territory of other States between 1978 and 1991 and were subsequently rewarded with the State rewards of the former Soviet Union. This category of citizens who died in military service is based on data from the State Committee on Veterans 3,150. The state now pays close relatives, husbands, and parents 29 bracelets each month for the loss of life. This is, to put it mildly, a disqualification and a gross injustice. So the idea of a bill is to help disabled family members to the extent possible. The estimated value of the marked changes to the Special Retirement Act for Ukraine will be 3 million. 175 thousand. 200 bucks a year, an average of 84 bracelets. In the course of its consideration of the bill in the Parliamentary Committees on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and especially in the Committee on National Security and Defence, Ukrainian National Deputies were asked to extend the bill to other participants in hostilities or peacekeeping operations. I have no objection to that. And if the concept of changes to the law in the first reading is supported, we're going to work on the bill and we're going to take these proposals into account for the second reading. Now I'm asking you to support the bill in the first reading only with a small amendment -- the word "and bound" replace it with "or bound" and then after the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u91	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Both bills, and the one currently reported by the author 5761, and the one that unfortunately does not exist - 4402 - imply the following. We know that there is a law on pensions for special merit before Ukraine. And first, and secondly, the law provides for the expansion of the categories of persons who may receive pension benefits under this law. Thus, as the author of Bill 5761 has already said, the issue concerns members of the families of the soldiers who died in the course of their duties in connection with the hostilities and were therefore awarded the State awards of the former Soviet Union. With regard to Law 4402, the first article of the current Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine lists persons with relevant rights and benefits and corresponding allowances. In this case, the discussion is that the participants who are featured in the first article are the Heroes of the Soviet Union, the Heroes of Social Work, the persons awarded the Orders of Glory, Lenina, the Trudovo Slava, and the persons who are awarded the awards of Ukraine are added. In this case, the discussion is that they are awarded three degrees by the Orders of the Prince of Jaroslav of Wisdom, the Order of merit, the Order of the Goddan of Hmelnick, three degrees, the Order of the Princess of Olga. That is, we are, in fact, equalizing the status of the Ordinaries in law, whether they have received awards in the former Soviet Union or have already been awarded in the State of Ukraine. That's probably fair. Based on this logic, our committee proposes both the first and the second bills as a basis. There are additions and changes to the second reading, respectively. Thus, the Committee proposes that both the first and the second bills be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u93	Thank you. If Yuri Anatolyovich permits, we'll vote. But he wants to speak. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I don't agree with this position that these two bills can just be compared to each other, they're completely different on a moral basis. First of all, the bill that National MP Sinchenko reported to me, which I am very grateful that he drafted the bill, refers to the fact that in the event of the death of a military official, a person of the head office or a lineup of internal affairs bodies who have died in the course of their duties, the disabled family members will have allowances. According to his bill. And the implementation of this project will, of course, contribute to strengthening the protection of disabled family members: both military personnel and those who died as a result of fighting, especially since he calculated that it would only take three million 175 thousand 200 dollars a year. This is not the money for the 3,000 - and - a - 150 people the law is spreading. This law clearly needs to be adopted, and it can be adopted in both the first and the second readings, bearing in mind that Sinchenko has made an amendment. He said, "or connected." That's absolutely right, he took into account the position and observation of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. With regard to the second law, 4402, amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, I would not be in a hurry to accept it. Dear colleagues, what I'm in charge of today. I am guided today by what we have seen, in the Leonid Danilovich Kuchma version, I repeat, under the Leonid Danilovich Kuchma version of today, people are assigned to whom these awards are awarded. We've seen the hero Tulub is running today, and he's taking an unprecedented risk for a country that's already suffered damage from the Chernobyl disaster. Without environmental expertise, blocks, nuclear blocks are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u95	Yuri Anatolyevich, I'm asking for a topic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u96	I'm talking about the subject. So I'm saying that this is the Hero of Ukraine. All right, keep looking. If he's a hero of Ukraine, and we say let's raise the level of pension insurance for these people, maybe there's another criterion that needs to be done. It's not just how many rewards there are, it's a complex to predict. So I will personally abstain from voting for this project for now 4402, the more that we have other laws so far and there is not yet, given that there will be additional spending from the State Budget, I have not seen the calculation of how much it will cost the State. Show how many more decrees will be signed by the end of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma's office for Law 5761 I propose to vote for the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u97	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But you're inconsequential. A few minutes ago, they said we had the wisest president, and now you're criticizing him. Who else wants to speak? All right, all right, then the line. I'll give you a line. Please, Solomon. Then I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u98	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our faction has carefully considered this bill. I was preparing it, I mean Bill 5761, prepared by our colleague Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich, who understands the matter and has his own life experience on this issue. So I just want to emphasize, we certainly support this legislative proposal to support those who are members of the families of members of the fighting and peacekeeping operations that took place in 1978, 91st. Moreover, they are not. We're only going to say that very little, just about 3,000, and because the number specifically calculated is, it's known, it's only 3 million dollars a year, which is going to be 74 dollars per person, like that addition to the pension. So I would very much ask all the Ukrainian national MPs who are still in the room, and who are going to push the buttons, will vote, gather and be able to press so many buttons to get this bill adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u99	Yuri Petrovich, please do not call for violation of the Constitution. Yes, we'll vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[Registration number 4402]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:47:22]] For-151 The bill was rejected. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[Registration number 5761]] Please vote. [[17:47:57]] For 227 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We need to make a decision on the issues under discussion. This is about information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine regarding the proper level and timely payment of wages", this is registration number 6305. Please, it's dry from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u100	Dear National Deputies! I'll remind you. On November 9th in this room we listened to a report on the Government's Day, information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution and the Laws, about the proper level and timeliness of payment of wages, reminding everyone there, then clearly with you, during the discussion we outlined the main policy trend in the area of pay. This is a departure from the concept of cheap labor and the transition to the concept of the high cost of the national labor force by eliminating it, and they focused their efforts on the elimination of the causes that in their time gave rise to such a disgraceful phenomenon for the civilized world as the debt of wages. So that these processes, processes are positive, processes that are full of legislative content, the concept of reforming wages, take control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that these processes are not legalized, so that these processes are not chaotic and proposes to the Committee on Social Policy and Work to adopt a decision that we discussed with you on 9 November this year. It envisions a whole set of measures aimed at developing a real pay-back schedule, implementing the basic concepts of further salary reform, generating a minimum wage in a single tariff network, which is now expected from us by budgeters and a schedule for the complete elimination of debt cancellation and the development of non-admission measures for the further creation of a shameful phenomenon, such as the debt of wages. The committee proposes to support this decision, number 6305. There were no other proposals to the Committee on Government Day, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u101	Yes. There are no questions for Dry Sit down, please. Now with motive. Dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to one important thing, we're with you, unfortunately, spending the days of the government, somehow we're always not ready to make decisions on the same day, and then we're wasting too much time making decisions. You and I seem to have gotten into the right direction and we're working on this: we've discussed the issue, we're making a decision. On Government Day, we don't always carry on. Let's not do that anymore, I'm going to the committees that are preparing the days of governments, or nothing at all then to spend the days of governments, because it shows the practice that after the days of the government in a week or two, we don't take any decisions at all. And I'm sure it could be that way right now. Please, before the vote on the grounds of Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u102	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The reporter said that there were no suggestions for the committee. And I have submitted my proposals to the Committee on Social Policy and Work, according to the Rules, and they have not been considered and said anything about them. So if we vote only on the basis, and then I insist that my proposals be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u103	We will vote on the basis. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this session for 15 minutes because we're going to have to adopt another important bill. Now I'm betting. Yuri Anatolyevich, you're giving commands on your cell phone, you're in my way. I am voting on the basis of the Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of compliance by the Government of Ukraine with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine's laws on the proper level and timeliness of payment of wages, registration number 6305. Please vote on the basis. [[17:53:09]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Carmazin will now make a wise offer and we will vote. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u104	Adam Ivanovich, members of our faction did not vote "Our Ukraine," Yuri Karmazin, because we are outraged at the actions of the state car inspection in Lugansk, which now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u105	Turn off the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, not that. Let's just be determined to talk. We'll talk more about that. Please, Hara, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I will just remind you that on Government Day we discussed this issue and tried to vote, but unfortunately, there were very few people in the room and no votes were cast, and you offered to vote on it for the next sessional week. At the time of consideration and time, no proposals were made by our committee. Therefore, our committee did not consider the option that was presented to the Government on the Day and presented it for consideration. Therefore, of course, the Government will not be affected by the fact that we will not question them in further addressing the issue of the elimination of arrears on wages, the increase in wages. And it is a shame for the Supreme Council to have a Government Day and not make any decisions. There is simply no point in us then to spend the days of the Government, to listen to questions without taking any decisions to achieve any results. Therefore, I very much request that the ruling be put to the vote and adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u107	The Committee has introduced draft 3.11. I think it's earlier when we were listening to the government. And here's the document that Lechchenko submitted on November 12th. So you had the opportunity and you should have looked at it here. I don't blame you. You'll find out between you. Now the MP of Vernigor will turn this problem on the right path. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich. We could not vote in favour of this decree on either Government Day or today. Why? Because most of the speakers said that we don't have the right level, we don't have the right level of pay, and the new debts are being created, not just shrinking out there, but creating new debts, I'm not talking about the old debts that were created five years ago. So we won't be able to vote on the day of the debate on how we can't vote today, because no one will support such a determination, more loyally, such a government's course on such a meager wage that people don't have biological existence. So what's going on here? We're just not going to vote in favour of this ruling. First, we need to raise the right level of wages, at least to the limit or to the minimum of living. Then we'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, I think you'll agree with me. Whether we take a decision or not we take a decision, absolutely, unfortunately, until we make a change to the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers will not take place. So the question is rejected. Yes, we need to put it into the agenda and consider Bill 6180, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on State social assistance]] It's a government bill. I'll put it to a vote. Be careful. Please support the proposal for inclusion and consideration today, on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on State social assistance]] Registration number of Bill 6180. Please vote. [[17:58:17]] For 225 Dear colleagues, I can see that there was an overcrowding and was prevented from voting. That's why I'm putting the vote again, once again, to vote on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on State social assistance]] Registration number 6180. We're voting friendlyly. [[17:59:03]] For 229 Yes, thank you, 229, decision taken. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Lydia Mikolayevna Drozdova will report. Please, Lydia Mikolayevna, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection has been developed in connection with changes in the current legislation of Ukraine and with the aim of improving the material security of disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities, which are foreseen for the payment of state social assistance under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. The bill is intended to address the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection in part of the assignment of pensions or other benefits that are assigned instead of pensions. The bill regulates the right of persons who extend the validity of the law to receive pensions not only to pensions or monthly life support, but also to other forms of assistance, which is an alternative to retirement. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u112	Dear colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact that we have a new phenomenon in the social security of veterans, which operates under the Law on the Status of War Veterans and guarantees their social protection in real life: State social assistance. And in order for us to be able to give people what the State has to give, we need to introduce the full concept of State social assistance into the legislation. Therefore, the bill, although it deals with very many articles, only four words are introduced. After the words "debt money maintenance," only four words are added: "or state social assistance." So the question is technological, but it's very important to more than 14 million veterans. Please, therefore, do not hold a rally about where someone has been detained or what it is. It's about veterans. Let us make them legislation that is normal with regard to the emergence of State social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u113	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. And he'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin. I'm in favour of adopting Bill 6180, which is in the first and second readings. I don't see why we can't guide the law, meet the requirements of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantee their social protection with regard to social assistance, the more we talk about four words. I asked for another word. I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to give the commission now. In Lugansk, five police officers captured the Lugancane newspaper along with Lukyanco, the mayor of Red Luch. I ask that the Ministry of Internal Affairs be instructed to stop the banditry that is currently taking place. People don't even represent themselves, people don't know how to complain about who to complain about. What is happening in a country called Ukraine?Oh, my God! Adam Ivanovich, please give you such a protocol assignment. Only then will the faction take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. You know what. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you know you're one of the most real applicants in the future near the Attorney General's office. You're going to take this position and you're going to do exactly what you're going to do with us right now. And we don't have that possibility right now. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis and as a whole. And we're on the same page. But it's very simple. We vote on the basis and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection with regard to State social assistance. Registration number of Bill 6180. Please be friendly. [[18:04:03]] For 248 Thank you. Show me the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 35, Ukrainian regions - 58, Communists - 57, Social Democrats - 13, Labour Ukraine - 19, National Agrarian Party - 17, Socialists - 12, Block Timoshenko - 5, Union - 10, Only Ukraine - 0, Center - 7, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, Deminitiates - People - 1, Postfaction - 3, Thank you, Law passed. You prepare, please. We're giving a protocol order at the request of Karmazin. Thank you. Dear colleagues! If we mobilize, maybe we'll put it in the agenda and consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Code to expand the list of non-working days. Please, Solomon, before the vote. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u116	Yuri Solomantin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Bill 6309, prepared by a group of national deputies, deserves attention. But I would like to inform you that on November 17th, a bill registered under number 6309-1 was also issued by a group of national deputies on this very issue, namely the renewal of the festival days on November 7 and 8. So I'd like to ask you to put both of these bills into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-18-m1.u117	Regrettably, there is no record of this. I know it's registered, but we do. Yes, let's, let's say, let's say, let's say that Yuri Petrovich is right, because we're actually considering the Law on Amendments to the Labour Code, the same law is also registered under number 6309-1, which is the complementary bill. Then I put to the vote: the inclusion and consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Labour Code, registration numbers 6309, 6309, I now say the authors of the Bill of Bogatirirov and others and Bill 6309-1, the authors of the bill of Solomatin, Cibenko, Herasimov, Anastasiev, Puzakov, Rodionov, Parubek, please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[18:07:54]] For-90 Please, by the factions. In fact, we had to look at the lower figure, there were 227. "Our Ukraine" -6; Regions -2; Communists -59; Social Democrats, Hard Ukraine, National Agrarian Party -0; Socialists -19; Timoshenko -0; Alliance, "Only Ukraine", "Centre" -0; NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -3; Democratic Initiatives -0; Non-fractional -1. I'm so glad everyone wants to work and nobody wants to rest. On such a good note, let me declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we start our work or continue our work at 10 in the morning. Good luck.
