ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:15]] A total of 425 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy Singer Vladimir Leonidovich. Let us welcome Vladimir Leonidovich and wish him good health and good health. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. And in the meantime, I'm going to announce the parliamentary questions that came in when there's no objection. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Oleg TGAGNIBOKA and Taras STETZKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” by the management of the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory solution to the issue of the elimination of existing imbalances in the pension security of military personnel. Roman TAKAČA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of tariffs on jobs and services performed and paid by the state health care and epidemiology service. Mr Mikhail VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Industrial Policy, on illegal interference with the activities of the primary organization of the independent mining profession of Ukraine of the Lenin Mine of the Open Association of the “Croat Iron Coal”. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding payment in the District of Brezniv, of one-time assistance to mothers at the birth of a child whose payment is linked to the liquidation of the Bank “Ukraine”. Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of budget for the reconstruction of the Volin County Infectious Hospital. Petra KUZYMEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the construction of social sites in the village of Rodnik of the district of Cherkas region. MICHELLA POLAND to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of non-registration of compensation for the loss of medical alcohol to manufacturers of medical drugs in connection with the increase in the excise duty rate of the congregation to 16 dollars instead of the premiums of 2 bracelets. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for refusing to hand over to the farm “Agrossa” the village of Hubnik of the Heisinsky region of the Winnitsky area of the peasant’s estates, who leased their land rations. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the unsatisfying funding of the Chernobyl housing programme of only 1% of the need. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to ensure that individual categories of citizens are transported by motor vehicles. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine regarding the destruction of the production power of the Svema Group of the Suma Region. Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine about the construction of the bridge in the Lubeshiv region of Volin. Victor CAPUSTIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation that has arisen with the privatisation of the State Shareholder Company Titan of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of treatment of the population, the creation of a proper material and technical base for the Herson district cancer dispenser. Stepan HMARA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 67 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and the recalculation of compensation payments to injured citizens in accordance with the changes in the cost-of-living index and the increase in the minimum wage. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City Council for the violation of the Presidential Order “On the Position of a National Institution” and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Ordinance “On the Conditions for the Transfer of Cultural Buildings to Religious Organizations” during the eviction of the National House of Organic and Chamber Music from the premises of the former church of St. Nicholas. [[institution]] Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Transport of Ukraine, on the subject of the unsatisfactory supply of railway freight wagons for coal-fired enterprises. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the socio-economic crisis situation in Dobromil of the Lviv region. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the 100th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding Ukrainian writer, Ulas Samchuk. [[KURAS, SIRCO, SHERSHOON, and others Total 6 deputies]] Anatoly OF KZŁOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, regarding the material security of the State interest-free bond. Vladimir LECHENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the removal of military personnel who became disabled in military service, legal aid. Vasil Bartkov to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of the cultural building and the walking bridge across the Svić River in the village of Miżrić of the town council of Ivano-Frankov. Ms. Nveera MHITARIANA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitr Tobacco, on the guarantee of the constitutional rights of citizens to free choice and restoration of nationality, in the exercise of these rights in the drafting of passport documents in Ukraine. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Tobacco, on the procedure for granting benefits to individual categories of citizens on the payment of housing and utility services. Anatoly MATVIENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klav of Ukraine on the three-year debt owed to Zaporezki AES to a small company called “Tambon” of Energodar Zaporozki district. GEORGIA BUIKE to Deputy Prime Minister Andrey Klav of Ukraine on the operation of the management of the Donetsk Railway in support of the vocational and technical school. PETER KUZYMEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of the inhabitants of the villages of Umansk and Christian districts of the Cherkas region. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal violation of the living conditions of House No.72 on Hagarin’s Avenue in Kharkiv. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the abuse of office, the theft of state funds in a particularly large amount, the corruption of individual officials of the State Automobile Inspection Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Lviv Region and the resolution of the issue of discharge from the internal affairs bodies of the individual heads of the Lviv City Administration and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv Region. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal re-registration of the “Assistance” of the city of Ivano-Frankivsk to a private enterprise. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cancellation of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine of February 4, 2004 “On the implementation of measures to ensure the development of the National Shareholder Insurance Company Oranta as one that is contrary to the standards of current legislation of Ukraine. Ludmila Kirichenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal disposal of property of the Open Shareholder Society “Shared Trade and Industry Company Ritm” of Zaporozhye. Levka LUKJANENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the right of doctor of physics and mathematics Maksim Strychy to the head of the University of Prikarpatá for the lecture in the Faculty of Philology. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a dangerous situation in the district of Kyrovograd. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney-General of Ukraine in response to his dissatisfaction with the request that the management of the “Inter” and “Inter-OPT” society be held accountable for deliberately avoiding paying the salaries of the seasonal workers' brigade from the village of Kalina Zakarta. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for unlawful interference in the activities of the independent association of the Open Shareholder Society of the Metal Cellhouse Austral. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of property owners of the Ivanovo-Selishtian Agricultural Cooperative of the village of Demchenka in the region of Poltava. Ms Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of the current Ukrainian legislation by officials of Ukraine. Mr. Paul TOWCHANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the involvement of the law enforcement authorities of the Novosanjar district of Poltava in the manufacture and sale of forged cognac. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the wrong actions of the company’s administration regarding the violation of personal rights through political beliefs. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations by the executive authorities of Presidential Decree No. 1486 of December 25, 2003, and failure to comply with the decisions of the Mukatov City Court relating to its implementation. [[MIGOVI, ROBOT, MATVIENKO]] VICTOR DRACHEVSKI TO THE U.S. Attorney - General of Ukraine on the service negligence of officials in the administration of the housing of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Anatolia MATVIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to comply with the decisions of the Herson Economic Court. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of measures to undermine the authority of the authorities of the internal affairs of Ukraine and the illegal discharge from the law enforcement authorities of the commander of the battalion of police and post services of the Biloczerk Police Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region of the Lieutenant Colonel of the Police, John Odrin, with the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Stepan Cloud to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the removal of violations of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and the provision of the information specified in this law on biographies by the Head of the Central Election Commission. Group of People’s Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the clarification of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the reasons and grounds for the criminal offence provided for in article 212 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[SOLOJEV, STAY, KOSIOV]] VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the construction of the sports hall of the village of Tetirka of the Red Army District of Žitomir. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Measures to Improve the Higher Education System of Ukraine in Suma. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster with regard to the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. JOURIA ARTEMENKA and Alexia BABURINA to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the violation of legislation by officials of the State Executive Service of Shevchenkow District Department of Justice of Kiev. MICHELLA to the Minister for Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee for Forestry of Ukraine, on the rule of law and the state of forest management in forests under the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and the State Committee for Forestry of Ukraine. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Causes of Cancellation to Participants in the Elimination of the Effects of the Crash on Chernobyl AES VICTOR OF THE U.S. Minister of Agrarian Politics for earmarking funds for the completion of the construction of a cultural building in the village of Sokol of the Red Army region of Žitomir. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer of military towns No13 and No8 to the joint property of the local communities of the Ivano-Frankov district for the deployment of the Prikarpati military-sportal airline. [[HORNIK, KURT, COST, AND OTHERS. Total 7 deputies]] PENALTIES TO THE Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the reimbursement of the earmarked funds, in connection with the liquidation of the Bank of Ukraine. Maria MARKUS to the Head of the National Court of Justice of Ukraine for the financing of the territorial administration of the State Judicial Administration and the local courts of the Zakartat region for the implementation of the Ukrainian President's Order “On measures to ensure the proper functioning of the courts” and “Regional programme to ensure the functioning of the courts for 2003-2005”. TO THE head of the Poltava District State Administration, Paul TOLDA, about a situation involving crops of winter wheat in the Poltava region. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Head of the Herson District State Administration on the problems of the conservation and exploitation of sociocultural objects in the village of Novodmitrovka, in the Herson region. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Chief Editor of the newspaper “Rebirth”, the Chief Editor of the newspaper “Masculine” for gross violation of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” in connection with the failure to respond to the MP’s appeal and refusal to print the materials submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun, Valerija Samoplavski, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the delay in resolving the issue of the application of anti-dumping measures on imports into Ukraine of laminated wood stoves from the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Poland, which lead to significant inadequacies to the state budget of Ukraine. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the verification of the legality and violation of the purchase and sale of the whole property complex of the sugar plant of the village of Kersanovka Kulczynska district of Winnitsk. Valentina Seminyuk to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the extension of the review and publication of the constitutional application on the recognition of the non-compliance of the Ukrainian Constitution with the Presidential Decrees on State administration of matters since 23.02.2002, number 278, on the status of State administration of cases since 21.03.2000, number 174, on the State administration of matters since 17.12.2002, number 1180. The order is given under the heading "publishment is not to be published." Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal disengagement of thermal energy supplies in the city of Kyiv. Dear colleagues, all requests for correspondence have been made. Let's move on to the statements made by members of the MPs and factions with statements, information, reports. Oleg Zarubinsky of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine has the floor. Get Anishuk ready from the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national MPs, colleagues, journalists! The faction of the People's Democratic Party has received a number of appeals from Ukrainian citizens who for some reason have been in the territory of the Russian Federation for some time. These references speak of the impermissibility of respect for human rights by representatives of some authorities of the Russian Federation to Ukrainian citizens during their stay in Russia. [[Russian Federation]] There are, by the way, millions of Ukrainian citizens. Moral humiliation due to forced registration is unacceptable, and often illegal pressure from the authorities on our country’s citizens is not within the framework of good neighbourly relations between nations and strategic partners. Employees of public authorities who are supposed to ensure the exercise of human rights within the Russian Federation are blinding their eyes to violations of fundamental rights of citizens and often of themselves, and this is also mentioned in the references to us are taking part in illegal actions against Ukrainian citizens who come to Russia for the purpose of employment, participation in international scientific forums or even visiting their own. Ukraine, as a democratic, we will expect, a country and a subject of international relations cannot see the constant and purposeful humiliation of our citizens in a country that has constitutionally declared itself a "democratic legal state." What's more, dear fellows, I want to pay attention to this moment. Moreover, this factor is strengthened by the fact that, for citizens of so - called distant parts of England, France does not extend similar standards to Ukraine. This can only be viewed as a contempt of the neighboring state for the citizens of our nation. Among other things, one of Ukraine’s apologists demeaning to the procedure, Ukrainians of the registration procedure, the Moscow mayor recently received the Order for a substantial personal contribution to the development of cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Question: Did our nation have similar actions with regard to Russian citizens? I don't think so. First, we want to be a democratic country, we position ourselves as a democratic country, and we have to address these issues with civilized mechanisms. And secondly, citizens and state apparatus are different categories. Therefore, we are opposed to applying similar approaches to Russian citizens. The NDP faction believes that at this stage this problem should become one of the priority themes of Ukrainian-Russian relations, because it concerns millions of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention. I saved it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u3	From the Communist faction, Anishuk has to prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u4	Thank you. Vladimir Anishtuk, Communist faction, the town of Odessa. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Sadly, however, it must be noted that the southern palm tree of Odessa has become a regular district center with terrible roads, a lack of hot water, falling balconies, and so forth. On 10 April, Odessa's 60th anniversary of the liberation of the city of Odessa from the German-Fashistic invaders was to be celebrated. By the end of the anniversary, the local authorities, Mayor Bodelan, the city council, which consists of most of its businessmen, had presented all of us with “gifts” in the coffeehouses. First, the prices of cold water increased by 1.7 times, and the private company Infox was handed over to the city's private water channel for 50 years. And the new masters, if I'm not mistaken, from a party of social-democrats united, are once again trying to increase prices for cold water. The recommendations of the Special Investigation Commission, established in 2003, of the Commission of Inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the problem of addressing the water problem in the town of Hero Odessa, were fully ignored by local authorities. Secondly, tariffs on housing and utility services will be increased by 2.3 on 1 April. The truth is that power promises to compensate part of these tariffs. Both at Gurvice and at Bodelan Odessa again became a test site. [[a Bodelan is the leader of the “Regions” party in the city of Odessa]] Despite the recommendations of even the President of Ukraine not to carry out the increase in housing and utility tariffs at present, despite the numerous demands of the Odessites, the local authorities are at the forefront of their pilot project, the first in Ukraine, they say. In the wake of Odessa, similar anti-national looting policies are being pursued in Kharkiv, Vinnice, Sumah and many other Ukrainian cities. That was yesterday. On 27 March, on this Saturday, a popular gathering organized by opposition parties will be held at 13 hours in the Duma Square in Odessa. We invite all the Odessites, the Ukrainian people's deputies from Odessina to come to the voter assembly, to the people's assembly and say, "No increase in housing and utility services in the city of Odessa". Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u5	Vadim Gur from the People's Government MP group is invited to speak. Get ready for Roman Boiler.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u6	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass, People's Landing. Dear colleagues, with all the external well-being in our mining and metallurgical complex, there is a line that cannot be crossed. After all, the metallurgical complex is still a locomotive that carries a pretty broken cart. I believe this is the result of a lack of well-designed industrial policy, although there are both the Ministry of Economic Policy and the Ministry of Industrial Policy. I understand that we've made a lot of mistakes and mistakes for 12 years, these mistakes are somehow understandable. But now we don't have the right to make any mistakes, we know how much steel needs to flow, how much penetrating and whatnot, but contrary to the common sense in the mining and metallurgical complex, there's something that's not understood as the last day of Pompeii. One order follows the other. So the President has given a perfectly normal team, dealing with the internal market is normal, because the internal market is practically the work of our country. And what happened. How is this team being carried out? A memorandum of understanding between metals and raw materials was signed on 1 and 3 March. So, what do we have? The prices of December 2003 had to be suppressed. Now, let's look at Zaporoznaly's data, what we have: in December, the silicomanganese was 2.2, and now it's 4,000, twice, the electromagnetic 2,000, now 4,000, and the natural gas is 319, now it's 344. The question is, how does the Government carry out the command and normal command of our President? Now the second question, the second question, concerning the export of scrap metal. So, America, the United States of America, they banned exports, they think it's strategic raw materials, it's the defence capacity of the United States of America. And we are still looking at Europe for what it will tell us. What do we have now? Look, 506,000 has already been shipped out of 360, and only 1 million should be shipped off balance. I therefore believe that it is not necessary to look to the left and to the right, but to prohibit the immediate export of scrap metal. Well, that's the last one. For two years, there has been a law on tops in the Cabinet of Ministers. We're all dealing with one question: 30 centimeters, i.e. agricultural land. We know. We're trying to do something. And the question is, from 30 to a mile and a half, where is my Gurovsky Land, who is commanding it, and how do you plan it? That's question number one. No decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u7	Yes, thank you. Ivan Zvaric of the faction "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The first thing I want to say is that you don't have to be a very scientific political scientist when you look at the agenda that's coming out today to say the absolute cynicality of the initiators of the coup d'état, which is called "political reform." Someone needs a bulldozer to travel through the seven constitutional bases of the state to provide his purely clan, oligarchy interests. For this reason, the faction "Our Ukraine" in categorical form wants to express the following requirements, and there are five. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, first of all, we are addressing you, before a vote is taken on any issue, you must remove the cards of all the missing Ukrainian national deputies, first of all declaring who they are. We're also asking you to protect Parliament and still settle issues with the co-conspirators. Neither should their ballots. Second requirement. We don't understand the unreasonableness of this persecution to make these changes to the Constitution. Therefore, we demand that the initiators of these regulations be justified in their position. Which, in addition, should also be justified by this position on the part of the profile committee. In the absence of such soundness of mind, we cannot deal with these questions. Third requirement. It is also proposed to limit the right to the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian people’s deputies, since it is proposed to limit the deadline for amendments to the Local Elections Act. We demand that this issue be removed and that the full right of Ukrainian national deputies to the legislative initiative be ensured. Fourth requirement. We demand that, on the issue of parliamentary probation, there be a limited question of amending the law from the issue of amending the Rules. This issue should be first and foremost regulated by legislation, and only then will there be changes to the Rules. And fifth, the most plausible requirement. Before we finally consider any changes to the Constitution, we demand that the question of how to make changes to the Constitution be resolved. The relevant decisions are registered with us. And last, to the people of Ukraine. One thing I want to say: Remember, tyrants have never given anyone freedom before. We need to change not the Constitution of Ukraine, but the power in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u9	Basil Nadrag of the National Choice MP group. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, today when we talk about treatments, problems that afflict us, and everything else, we very often remember the unfortunate people of Ukraine in this room, and we complain that we have bad wages, bad pensions, everything else. But I've always said, and I'm going to repeat it, that evaluation of any activity is concrete results: what's done, what's not done. Let me remind you what was done yesterday in this room. On the day of the vote. First. Draft Law 4584, which amended Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility of managers of business entities if they do not fully or with violations make contributions to the Pension Fund. What is "retirement fund" I don't need to explain. You are well aware that the more resources in the Pension Fund, the more the financial base to increase pensions. And unfortunately, unfortunately, this bill has not accumulated enough, and there is much to be said for politicians, professionals and everything else, but the essence of the problem is as follows. With all due respect, I cannot help but say that the two major factions of the opposition voted in favour of a bill that would allow for order in how resources were paid to be paid to the Pension Fund and, respectively, to pay pensions. The same bill raised a question that was very much and often debated in this room, in truth and in good faith, and the extent to which the State budget fulfils its obligations to the Pension Fund in respect of the reimbursement of payments that are not pension benefits. I report to both you, my fellow Members, and to our listeners that, by voting in this way, we have left the legislative, I stress, laziness on this subject. Next moment. There was a bill 3400 yesterday. There's no clear reason why you and I didn't vote for him. Because, in reporting from this rostrum, I explained that the problem is with persons with disabilities, and if today we are talking about creating opportunities for persons with disabilities to be rehabilitated and adaptable in society, then Law 3400 - Bill - decided on the subject in general, but voting in the hall again went on a different basis. I fear that it has gone according to policy, not social issues. So when we talk about this subject today, I want to go back to all those who are coming to this rostrum. Please, let's just make sure that our words don't get out of hand with you. And the last. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons requests our respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, a bill of 3400, to be put on the agenda for the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u11	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Prepare Vernighor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u12	Mikola Chershuk, Equinox. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party addresses the government with concern about ignoring the problems of areas that are within a 30-kilometre zone around the Plains and Hmels nuclear power plants in the Plains region. The call of members of the Plain District Council for financial support for the conduct of water - protection activities on the Gorin River remained unheard of. And the government's only response to it was a letter from the Ministry of Finance that didn't get a good look at the problem. At the same time, equality is or is not the only area where two nuclear power plants, which adversely affect the natural and water balance of the environment, exacerbate social problems. There are also no arrangements for the construction of social-purpose objects in adjacent locations that are part of the power - building zone at these stations. At the same time, the analysis of the state of the environment strongly indicates a disturbance in the natural-water balance and a significant pollution and decline in the level of the main water artery in the Gorin River region. And the introduction of a second energy cloud at the Hmeln nuclear station, without taking into account the ecological and water management conditions of the Gorin River basin, will cause social tension. Failure to implement government orders and protocols associated with district administrations of councils relating to the financing of a complex of conservation measures and the construction of social objects in an area within a 30km area around the Plains and Hmelnian nuclear power plants shows one thing: these documents are only accepted for temporary decommissioning. We support the appropriate referral of members of the Plain District Council, and we believe that the population of nuclear facilities, mostly rural people, should be provided for by valid legislation to compensate socially and economically for the risk of nuclear stations. So the agrarian faction calls on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to finance these measures, and also to consider the issue of the supply of electricity to the population that lives in the 30km AES. Dear colleagues, the problem we raise is extremely serious. Ignoring it can lead to an ecological and, in the long run, nuclear catastrophe. We therefore consider it necessary to ask Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine to entrust the competent organizations with a more detailed study of the situation, to anticipate in Ukraine's State Budget 2005 and in the coming years the corresponding costs for restoring the natural and environmental balance of the Gorin River Basin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u13	From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Vernigor has the word. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u14	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Kuchma-Janukovich's regime shamelessly robs pensioners. Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on the first results of the pension reform. The beginning of this year brought new evidence of shamelessness and cynicism of the ruling regime. This was particularly true of pensioners who received their first pensions after counting them under the new Pension Insurance Act. More than 80 percent of pensioners received pensions, which increased from December to December 10. Given that prices for food and some industrial goods, housing and electricity have increased sharply in recent months, such an increase in pensions seems like an open act of power over the most deserving citizens of Ukraine, who have put their lives in the construction of our state, protecting the country from foreign enslavements, has lifted it from the rubble. The beginning of the pension reform has clearly shown that it condemns the older generation to a miserable existence, demeaning human dignity and dignity of the state. Sadly, there are warnings of opposition, including socialists. The situation was particularly acute in the countryside. The government of Janukovič, together with the majority of Kuchmew in Parliament, has imposed a tax on agricultural products grown in agricultural areas, forcing them to pay crazed costs for the privatisation of the land. The regime has deliberately stalled wage reform for a long time, making cheap labour the only reason for the loss, so the competitiveness of domestic production. Thus, the growth of the income of the working population, the replenishment of the Pension Fund, is artificially inhibited. Today’s average wage manipulations, with a reduction in minimum wage, indicate that the regime in these operations launders money for dirty pre-election technologies and the replenishment of the capital of oligarchs. It's unacceptable in any way. And given that the state is robbing its most vulnerable citizens, the actions of the ruling regime pose a particular threat to Ukraine, to its people, and to its future. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine sees the cynicism of the pensioner regime as the highest level of disrespect for the moral standards of society and disregard for the human rights declaration. We demand that the Cabinet of Ministers abolish the ominous decree number 1783 as a violation of the material and financial rights of pensioners, forge falsification as the basis of public policy and open the way for further manipulation. We also demand that rural income tax be abolished from supporting farming, that land-based land be free of charge. Socialists urge the political forces of various directions to act unanimously to protect pensioners from violating today’s ruling regime against their inalienable rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u15	Mikola Noshchenko, from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine", to prepare Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u16	Nightshenko Mikola, Lukovsky 160 constituency, Hard Ukraine faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. At the commission of the faction, I want to draw the attention of those present in this room, all those who are listening to us today, that one of the acute problems of the state is the migration of Ukrainian citizens across the border for the purpose of temporary employment, which has recently become of unheard-of size. The number of migrant workers at different rates is approaching seven million. In particular, the desire to earn money for a decent life has driven nearly one million of our fellow countrymen to Russia. In Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic, Portugal, and Spain, thousands of our citizens work in each of these countries. Many even flew across the ocean. At the same time, only 50,000 of our Ukrainians are legally employed abroad. Thus, most of our fellow countrymen work abroad as illegal workers and are among the most discriminated and unprotected categories of foreign labour migrants. Who is to blame? First of all, many Ukrainian business subjects provide inadequacies of middle - class employment services abroad and are not responsible for this. You might say, they're making money selling labor to questionable foreign buyers. All of this leads to numerous appeals of deceived citizens. Today, there are about 500 business subjects in Ukraine who provide such services. The work of some one hundred intermediaries is suspended annually by the cancellation of licenses. But this opens up to dozens of new, unscrupulous firms that do dirty business on the mountain and the poverty of people. The Labour Ukraine faction considers that it is necessary to increase the demand on the legislative level as soon as possible for operators who provide services for the search and employment of Ukrainian citizens in foreign employers. To our conviction, the license for this type of activity should be issued and operated only when there is a contract with a foreign contractor in force, with clear working conditions and guarantees. The faction also calls on the government, the Foreign Ministry, to request the embassies and consulates to give appropriate conditions for the protection of the rights of compatriots abroad, with which there are no cooperation agreements, to provide timely assistance to Ukrainian citizens. This is primarily the help of returning home, the preservation of wealth and money, the protection of government and criminal rackets, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u17	Yes. Anatoly Matvienko of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u18	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you, I don't know, not even with the screams and not with the request, but with the desire to reflect. Shame on what the Supreme Council is turning into today. Instead of responding to the urgent problems that we face in life, defending the interests of our voters, we are today running on some road of absurdity, driven by the inhumane people of the Bank, and demonstrating the agony of self-dain. What are we talking about? You're all in the districts. Today, the real payability of the population has not increased, but has decreased, tariffs and gas prices have increased, and electricity has led to an extremely critical situation, and local budgets that have compensated for this situation today as a result of their imbalance and excess income base cannot compensate for this difference. It's all on people's shoulders. We have to look at the problems of first protecting our citizens here today, 240 minimum wages, tariffs, higher pensions, real compensation to local budgets not to make them hostage, and this is a time requirement. What are we doing today? Today, we are engaged in festivities, demonstrating some necessity, violating the Constitution and the Rules of Change to Unprincipled Issues. Today, we do not want to help people, but we want to protect and preserve the power of thieves, corrupt bandits, instead of responding to the urgent problems facing Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you as a person to guarantee the protection of the Rules and the Constitution: you must be the first to take this road today. I address all those who want to ignore today both the Rules and the Constitution. Looking at the bill or the agenda that has been introduced, it gives me reason to say that the opposition today did not give you any reason to accuse her of violating the Rules. But when Bolsheviks today and, unfortunately, thanks to Communists who somehow do not understand what real problems Ukraine is facing today, you should know that you are pushing us to protest and pushing us to defend both the Constitution and the Rules. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you once again, and I am responsiblely turning to the faction to protect the Rules and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u19	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] To prepare for the unsatisfying response to parliamentary requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u20	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Our faction has been introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Ukrainian law on the mandatory national insurance of newborns. Once again, we are consciously focusing on this very project, pursuing a very pragmatic goal -- to call on all factions to join in the work on this bill, because this bill applies to about 11 million Ukrainian citizens under the age of 18. After all, every political force in Parliament promised the electorate to promote youth policy and to stand in the position of childhood. The faction of SDPU(o) is deeply convinced that the protection of childhood is a question that, at least from a moral point of view, cannot divorce politicians on different sides of the barricade. And that's clearly what we do when we take care of the children, we provide for the future of Ukraine. So the conclusion of the scientific and expert department of rejecting this bill as a result of the first-reading discussion is not just a mistake, but an unacceptable one. And for what we are grateful to the Scientific and Expert Office, this is a very quick and thorough analysis of the bill and of the proposals for its improvement. The faction for improvement and for refinement, but the bill cannot be rejected in any way. I'm sure the vast majority of the halls share our position. Finally, the Supreme Council must pay attention to the bill even in view of its special history. The faction aims to point out from this rostrum that the bill on the insurance of newborn children was initiated and largely prescribed by the young generation, was won in the nomination of the "Best Bill in Childhood Support" in the framework of the All-U.S. Competition for a Better Bill in the Field of State Policy, conducted by the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the faction and the Socialist Congress of Young People. [[united]] The problem facing the state and the Supreme Council is young people themselves. And in our view, this situation forces the legislator to treat the bill properly, i.e. responsibly, especially in view of the stated direction of building civil society in Ukraine and the real involvement of young people in State administration. The adoption of the Supreme Council of the Law on the Insurance of Newborn Children will add real importance to the implementation of national policies in the field of child protection, and, especially, it will give every Ukrainian child State guarantee of full development and contribute to its becoming a full member of society. In addition, with the adoption of this law, the State will be given an effective mechanism that will help solve the problem of the demographic crisis, a problem that is particularly relevant to Ukraine. The parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is asking the Finance and Banking Committee to take into account the arguments put forward in its consideration of social and content, and on the basis of the bill, and it calls upon all national deputies, regardless of their faction, to join in the work on its professional improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u21	The word has Vladimir Nechiporak in line with the Rules in response to repeated parliamentary requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues and guests. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th constituency, Hmelničchina. On behalf of the Majorists, please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, hear and draw a conclusion. And all the national MPs, please listen, because today the Supreme Council is in danger of being replaced by the leadership of the Supreme Council by the majority of Gavrish. Where did Gavrish become the second leader of the majority? Did we choose him as the leader of most national MPs? It was chosen by 5 or 6 faction leaders, and I believe that if Havrish wants to build his republic of Kharkiv, he should build it in Kharkiv, not in the Supreme Council! And we all are majors against it. And we will not let ourselves be led as sheep by a raven or anyone else. I'm sorry that I might. And we're not going to be able to make a law that's proportional to closed lists. Why does this law exist today in just three countries — Israel, Albania, and Estonia? Ukraine what, fourth? Is she a colony of Israel? I want to stop at one more, Your Honor. Majors, please let us unite into one faction. We are people of the people, we are representatives of the people, the people have chosen us, and let this faction protect the people, not the honorable corporate interests of the leaders of factions and Gavrish! Besides, I want to ask everyone. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian people, please express their sympathy to the Palestinian people for the act of terrorism.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u23	At your request, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u24	Now, now I'm going to answer. . The states of Israel and the murder of the spiritual leader and the national hero of Palestine, Sheikh Yassin, and I ask that you honor Yassin’s memory by standing up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u25	Buddy, come on. On request. I'm asking you, come on. Well, you said that because of the dissatisfaction with the answer to the request. Let's ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u26	So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask on behalf of the majors to give time and at least 10-15 minutes to tell both the Supreme Council and the people of Ukraine that no requests from the major MPs are now being taken into consideration. We've all been taken to our feet. I repeat, I don't know who's running the Supreme Council, for today, probably more than what's run by the President's Administration of the Supreme Council and manages it successfully through.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u27	Thank you. Shufric’s replica, Hubsky’s replica, Gavrish’s replica, was mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. During his election as coordinator of the majority of Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish, our colleague, Nechiporak, was unfortunately a member of the faction of the United Social Democrats. And he could not help but know that the matter was a matter of discussion in the faction, and our faction deliberately supported Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish’s candidacy and, if I recall correctly, when Nechiporek supported this candidacy. The following question is raised regarding the leadership of the Supreme Council. Today, there is the elected leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is active, and which we support in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u29	Hubsky, then Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u30	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Any national MP, I'm absolutely certain of that, has a right of personal opinion. But given that he was speaking from factions and from MPs today, I wanted to say that the thought of Nechiporek, which he expressed today, is: and his personal; b) does not match the thought of the faction. That's the first one. I wouldn't want to criticize anyone or praise anyone. So I'd like to prove that the People's Authority faction did not authorize Nechiporek to speak on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to remind you that the deputy of Nechiporak, according to the Rules, has made a written appeal to him because of his dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary requests to give him the floor; he has been acting as a deputy; he has not spoken of the faction. [[May I have your attention, ……]] So I'd like to listen to this very carefully. Please, Gavrish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would not want to react to the position of Vladimir Neciporak, who has not yet been able to determine political priorities and have never been a fan of discipline, regulation and political position in the sessional room. The only thing I want to say is that we will await the conclusion of the trial of Paul Johnovitch Lazarus and see what this will accomplish for those who take an unexpected stand for all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u33	Everybody here? Nechiporak's replica, please. Well, calm down. a replica of Nechiporek. I said a line and we'll keep working. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! First.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u35	Let's keep the construct.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u36	I will tell everyone that I did not speak from Lazarenko, not from the people of Lazarenko, not from Israel, not from the President's Administration, I spoke from the people of Ukraine and from the Majorists!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, please don't disturb me. Let us continue in a calm pace, working our activities. For what reason, Alexander Turchinov? Please. Dear colleagues! For what reason? Your last name wasn't mentioned. There's no need for a replica. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the section "Questions of Ratification." A draft Act on Ukraine’s association with the Convention on Temporary Imports is being tabled. Reporters: Ivanjuk Mihailo Mikolaiovich, the first deputy of the Head of State Customs, will speak from the committee of Cassianov Sergey Pavlovich. Is there a need to listen to information? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u38	Where's Ivanjuk? Please, very briefly, please, within the limits of possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The need to join Ukraine in the Convention on Temporary Imports is due to the need to ensure Ukraine's consistent integration into the world community and to further harmonize Ukraine's legislation with the European Union's legislation to promote international trade relations. The accession of Ukraine to the Convention on Temporary Imports will make it possible to significantly simplify customs formalities when moving through the customs border certain categories of goods due to the refusal of the customs declaration and the use of the unified Carnet International Customs Document. which guarantees the payment of imported taxes and congregations in the event of the unsanctioned implementation of temporarily imported goods. The provisions of this convention are particularly extended to the following categories of goods: samples of goods intended for demonstration at exhibitions, fairs, professional equipment of media representatives, comrades moving across the customs border, not for profit purposes, but within the framework of educational, scientific, cultural and humanitarian activities. The current practice of the above mentioned goods being moved across borders is generally subject to customs treatment as goods moving through commercial transactions. In this regard, the volume of customs procedures being carried out far exceeds the need and does not contribute to the development of international trade. This indicates the need to impose effective legislation on the temporary introduction of an international standard. The expected results from Ukraine's accession to the Temporary Imports Convention are: to promote the participation of Ukrainian entrepreneurial entities in international fairs, to ensure the development of exhibition and fair activities in Ukraine, to promote the approval of Ukraine as a transit state, as provided for in the Ukraine Comprehensive Program of Approval of Ukraine as a Transit State by 2010. The draft Law of Ukraine on the Association of the Convention on Temporary Importation and the Relevant Supplements was supported by the Committee on European Integration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, since there are many who want to sign up, please sign up. Three minutes to ask. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Sergey Drogunzov, Communist faction, please. Wow, 32 men signed up. Sergey Doroguntsov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u41	Please tell the honourable reporter who with this agreement or treaty or this convention for Ukraine is related to additional obligations, especially financial ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. Ukraine’s accession to the International Convention does not require additional financial costs. This is Ukraine's movement towards European integration and simplification of customs formalities. The 1990 Istanbul Convention has been joined by quite a number of countries. The developer of the Convention is the World Customs Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u43	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u44	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill very carefully at our committee meeting and have come to the conclusion that it must be supported. To support at least the reasons why we are entering a civilized field of European standards on our customs capabilities. Why? Imagine that there are today some items about exhibitions that are being moved. We need to fully formulate a declaration and then export and recast the same declaration. I mean, for today, there is such a “difficulty” that it is to export and import goods that should simply not remain in the territory of one country or another. Here's what we need to do to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u45	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u46	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u47	Alexander Pecklusenko, 84 constituency, Zaporozhye. Please tell me that the need to enact this law is most likely related to the loss of the budget. You have calculated how the lack of a provision of this law has affected the loss of the budget, and how much more can it add to the budget? Orientated.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I would like to stress once again that it does not entail any financial loss.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u49	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u50	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, faction of our Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. A respected reporter, perhaps not having to accept such temporary import conventions? Take the example that we have in Lviv, on the western regional customs, it's been imported for a long time, it's been exported without any documents, without any conventions, without any decisions or decisions of the Supreme Council. Maybe it's just across Ukraine, where there are customs, where there are officials, there's customs officers, there's customs that we have on the Western Regional Customs and there's no problem, we're not going to take up time in the Ukrainian Parliament that should be dealing with other issues. Is there a question to be settled on this matter? Or let's say we can go to a faction, say the SDPU (o) that offers its customs officers and in a way that makes clear borders in our country. Perhaps we can draw conclusions on this side and not waste our time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. I don't think this question is fully relevant to convention issues, but I'm going to answer your question -- this question concerns the fight against smuggling by the State Customs Service, and those performance indicators last year show that the State Customs Service is growing in its work with law enforcement agencies to deal with such shameful phenomena as smuggling. If you need extra materials, I'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u52	Eugene Kirilchuk, please. We continue for two minutes because there were a lot of questions. It'll be five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u54	It's a motive. He's on his way now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u55	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Dear reporter, well, if there's no budget expenditure on this law, I think it was an account, and how much would that do to our Ukraine? What benefit is there for our nation in adopting this law? If you have these accounts, please. You've got me covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I have already stressed in my statement that the need for the adoption of this law is based on Ukraine's consistent position on integration into the European community and promoting international trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u57	Yes, Sergey Sinchenko, the Communist faction, please. You don't? Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u58	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", People's Movement. I would like to ask you a question that is very relevant in the spirit of the latest events that have taken place in Spain, Europe and so forth. Please tell me what methods to secure Ukraine, what methods to ensure national security, the security of citizens, the security of those who will come to the exhibition, if something is wrong. Can you base this convention on these last, objective threats that have arisen literally throughout the world and in Europe recently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. The convention consists of the text of the convention itself and its accessories. These are plugins "a", "b-1" to "b-9", "e" and "d". These supplements certainly require that all customs authorities of other States carry out their procedures for the protection of national interests in full scope and that accession to this convention does not preclude the possibility of carrying out the necessary customs procedures for the safety of imports of goods into Ukraine. This convention simplifies the very formal procedure for the processing of these goods, the possibility of moving them between the territories of the convention participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u60	Yes, Oleg Belarus, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u61	Dear reporter! How you appreciate the overall efficiency of our customs, what the percentage of the customs clearance is legal, what the percentage is illegal, how many mice pass through customs!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. I don't think it's fully relevant to the convention. But what I'm going to tell you is that from the 2003 customs activity, the customs service has significantly increased its investment in the State budget in monetary terms, and there are results in the fight against smuggling. Of course, there are a number of issues that we are working on with all other government authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u63	One last question. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u64	Fucking Communist faction. Please hand over Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u65	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u66	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear reporter, every bill, it's like the same stick at two ends, and in this case this stick from one end it contributes or, on the other hand, prevents those who import something into Ukraine, and, on the other hand, our citizens go to other countries -- and so do they have such or similar problems. Please tell me, in this case, where will this convention work? How many foreign citizens will benefit from certain preferences, and how many Ukrainian citizens will benefit from such preferences? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. I have to tell you that this convention does not apply to citizens -- this convention refers to the commercial circulation of enterprises, international organizations that can import goods into Ukraine using a convention, and it adequately refers to Ukrainian enterprises that can also, using this convention, move to foreign markets. This is a convention that applies to parity principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u68	Thank you. Please sit down, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. For my report, I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on European integration, Sergio Kasianova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Cassianov Sergey Pavlovich, 37th constituency, Postfactional. The Committee on European Integration, at its meeting, considered a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports at Registration No. 0172. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports. The bill meets the requirements of current legislation, as well as the principles and standards of GAT SOT. Adherence to the Convention will mean further harmonization of Ukrainian legislation with the norms and principles of the world trade organization. In our opinion, Ukraine's accession to this Convention will accelerate the country's accession to the World Trade and Integration Organization. Since the Convention introduces uniform rules of international trade that apply in many countries around the world, its adoption will have a positive impact on Ukraine’s external economic performance. There were so many questions. Well, if you get to the point, the Convention provides for the use of international customs standards that replace customs declarations and allow for the identification of goods, and also provides a guarantee at the international level to cover imported congregations and duties. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u70	Questions, please. Sign up. Five minutes to ask. On the board of names, please, the national MPs. Kostko Mercuryovich Sitnik, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u71	You don't? Then Michaelo Rodionov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u72	The Communist faction, the Rodionov. Dear reporter! The main purpose of your report and the entire convention is to speed up the introduction to the World Trade Organization. Please tell us when this introduction is planned. What is the need for today’s adoption of this Convention?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u73	As I said, this will be one of the measures that can be accelerated, but that is not the purpose of this Convention. According to a customs representative, the Convention on Temporary Imports included all existing conventions and recommendations on temporary importation and extended to imports that were not regulated by international rules. And for today, this convention will facilitate the immediate processing of those goods that are regulated by these sample conventions, the Customs Cooperation Convention on Fairs and Exhibitions and the Professional Property Convention. This is what, let's say, is a prerequisite for the development of international trade and the promotion of normal conditions for our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u74	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u75	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Sergey Pavlovich, have you felt in the mood of the hall that many questions have been asked you and a previous report on whether there will be any more holes in our customs regarding acceptance or accession to this convention? So I want to ask you. As a representative of the profile committee, you've been looking at these issues in detail, can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. We've discussed this very carefully, and we don't see any creatures there today, no holes. And so today, I can tell the session room that this is just a simplification of customs procedures for participating in those conventions, what we said, these are exhibitions, these are fairs, this is the introduction of this document, which will simplify the work of our entrepreneurs and foreigners, who will work, to participate in such events in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u77	Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u78	Thank you. National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Please pass the word to your colleague Valery Lebedowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u79	Valerius Lebedowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear Reporter! Clearly, this document provides for the application of the system. simplified customs procedures. and the use of a single international customs document. But at first glance, it's a very simple system. But what is behind this for Ukraine in terms of joining the World Trade Organization to join the EU? And the second question about the macroeconomic situation: how will the adoption of this Convention affect Ukraine's external economic performance, in particular with regard to exports and imports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u81	Thank you for asking, dear colleague. Today, you know that the sole purpose of the World Trade Organization is not only to access goods to markets but also to create normal conditions for entrepreneurs. And it's in this accession to this convention that we're going to work by customs rules as we work around the world. And this, I think, is creating normal conditions for our entrepreneurs, as well as foreign entrepreneurs, who are going to work in Ukraine, to participate in fairs and other measures, and to temporarily import some kind of product, will create the right conditions. And I think that some kind of bureaucratism for a while, they've wasted it, it's going to be much less. As for macroeconomic indicators, I can't say anything today, we didn't have that conclusion from the government about macroeconomic indicators in any way. We only have information about the budget expenditure, so to speak, there will be no budget expenditure new to the implementation of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u82	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u83	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Dear Sergey Pavlovich, I've been getting letters for a while, and especially lately, I've been getting letters from Covél, saying that Kovélska, for example, customs, well, she's been turned from a state institution practically into a place of plundering Ukraine. You've turned, you know, into a way of profiting some of the bosses who are not far from that customs office. Please tell us to what extent this law, which we are about to adopt, will help control customs and prevent the very uncontrolled collection of funds for illegal shipments of goods to Ukraine and Ukraine. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u84	I think today, we have answered this question, I say again, that a standard international customs document will be introduced for those goods that will be imported, that will replace the customs declaration and allow the identification of the goods and also contain a guarantee at the international level to cover the imported congregations and customs. This is the procedure that the whole world is using. And there will be no way to import uncontrollable and smuggled goods here. As for your question as to the specific situation at the customs office, I think this is a question for the Customs Service to ask, not the Committee of Our European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sit down for a while. Time is up, and with motive then you take the time that I can do. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Fifteen minutes for discussion. Please enter the name of the National Deputies of the dates that have been recorded to participate in the debates on this issue. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u86	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Noting that the current situation, characterized by an increase in the number and dispersion of international Customs Conventions on Temporary Imports, is unsatisfactory, Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports is both timely and necessary. This situation could worsen further in the future when international regulation of new temporary imports would have to be implemented. In order to achieve economic, humanitarian, cultural, social and tourism objectives, decisions should be taken to facilitate temporary importation by simplifying and harmonising procedures. The adoption of standardized types of temporary import documents as international customs instruments, together with an international guarantee, will facilitate the temporary importation procedure where a customs document and a guarantee are required. The provisions of this Convention do not preclude the application of prohibitions and restrictions imposed by national legislation based on non-economic considerations, such as morals or the maintenance of public order, public safety, hygiene and industrial property rights. The provisions of this Convention provide for minimum benefits and cannot constitute an obstacle to the wider benefits that Contracting Parties grant or grant in the future either unilaterally or through bilateral or multilateral agreements. None of the provisions of this Convention excludes the right of Contracting Parties forming a Customs or Economic Union to establish special rules concerning temporary entry into the territory of that Union. Ukraine's accession to the Convention will contribute to Ukraine's approval as a transit State to resolve trade issues with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u88	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I carefully studied the convention. I have serious questions before it can be executed in our country, given that today we already have semi-transparent borders. I have been warned that this system is from the countries of the former Soviet Union. She only works in Estonia, and she started working in part of the Russian Federation. In other countries of the former Soviet Union, it has not yet worked. We are ready, it turns out, to have the main categories of goods that are temporarily imported on the base of roots. Antiquariat, equipment and presses, equipment for food production, electrical and electronics, scientific, surgical, dental equipment, computers, office equipment, transformers, electric generators, jewelry and so on, cars and appliances, racing cars, agricultural equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, don't you think that we should have made a warning to this convention, a warning coming out of the convention itself, which is allowed by the convention, simply says that Ukraine should have made some warnings. I am deeply saddened by the fact that chapter 3 of the first article, for example, says: “Acquiesce for the temporary importation of goods imported within the framework of a cross - border circulation is granted without the requirement of a customs document or a guarantee. We have no guarantee that these goods will not remain here, absolutely none, we are not warned by other methods. And the respectable national MPs, they say that the worst way to live in times of change is to be offered by the Chinese. We haven't died yet without this convention, I'd like to, no one's inviting us to the European Union, although it says it's one goal: integration into the European Union. I would simply ask you to make warnings, legal warnings that would prevent you from violating the economic sovereignty of the State of Ukraine. I'm afraid in this way of joining a full-scale convention. We're not a banana republic that can afford this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u89	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u90	Thank you. I would like to point out that this should not be a warning to the ratification of this convention, but to look at the need for this ratification in general. Because it's really behind it. If a normal convention were possible, we could join. But it's another hole, it's another hole in the Ukrainian border, it's another black hole in the Ukrainian budget, and it's going to suck out a few billion of them that can barely get picked up or scribbled by the Ukrainian State. So here, under the good reason that they're importing exhibit samples, that they're going to come back, they're all good intentions. And we know perfectly well that good intentions make the way to hell. And in this hell, we're asked to enter by ratifying a similar convention. The full ratification of this convention, what does it give? I'll explain. For example, he wants to bring 25 cars in here, let's say Audi Volkswagen for the show. No customs, no import, and she sold -- and she said, "That's it, we sold these samples at the show." So what's with the double standards? It touches cars, it touches presses, it touches all the other so-called patterns. Remember how this scheme of importing exhibits and other patterns used to work. Now they've stabilized the situation a little bit -- once again, it's all about ratifying the convention. Ukraine in general is such a specific state: everything that is worst in the West is ratified immediately and quickly, and it is still working; all that is positive in the West is not ratified in Ukraine, and if it is ratified, it does not work and is not implemented. So I think that the Ukrainian border is so transparent, it's so pervasive, and not because it's bad, and not just because there's a problem with customs or overseas services, but because there's a problem with laws that regulate the protection of the internal market, and it's now necessary for the day before the market. I'd like to say more. It is good that there was no sorcery here, that the ratification of this convention will bring us closer to Europe, will accelerate Ukraine’s entry into the WTO and so forth. That's all, you know, spells that resemble the dance of shamans around the fire, that if we dance at this rate, it would lead to Ukraine entering the WTO or, therefore, into the European Union. I would like to urge the national MPs to postpone the ratification of this convention because it is not the most urgent and not the most necessary thing in Parliament right now. I'd like to call for a postponement of this ratification in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u91	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Igor Ostrash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! You and I are now witnessing a very interesting discussion. On the one hand, the government of capitalist ministers introduces the Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on Temporary Imports, and it is this convention that provides for an improvement in the conditions for the interaction of the business of what is in Europe, America, and Ukrainian business, on the other hand, with the same Europe and America and not only in the single economic space. And, strangely enough, the bourgeois opposition, if it were in power and it was in government, with two hands pushing this convention, now it's making a warning. It's weird. But this highlights the essence of bourgeois democracy and the struggle of two branches of bourgeois power and which is composed of the pro-presidential majority, the so-called Bolsheviks, and the bourgeois opposition that is trying to corrupt them from all sides. What we have to say is we're Communists and a faction of Communists on this point. Indeed, the fact is that the world has entered an era of globalization. Whether we want it or not, Ukraine and not only Ukraine, but also the whole post-Radians and, above all, Russia, the Elcinputinian and Putinian are globalizing and entering or attempting to join the World Trade Organization, and to strengthen the link between their national and not just business with other countries and, above all, the European Union. Therefore, we have to take into account and understand that the Convention is finally to be supported and accepted. But make a warning, but it's very simple that this convention will not work for people. I didn't offer this question to one of the reporters. It will work primarily for business, and we -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- have to do everything we can to take this business out of control so that everything it receives from the operation of this Convention goes not only to its benefit, but also to our disadvantaged Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u93	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u94	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, of course this document is important to us. But the key question for all of us today is how do we confirm such a fact that the data that is being published, let's say, German, Polish customs do not match the data that our tax collectors give? For example. I want you to think about those numbers. Germany is exporting to Ukraine for 2003 $1.5 billion, that is, it is an import for us to Ukraine. Is that a difference between what the German tax collectors declare and what the Ukrainian tax collectors declare? One and a half billion dollars. If you talk about the proportions of customs, that's 600 million dollars. dollars, and that means it's a direct confirmation of smuggling. This is really a key question for us: how can we track and control the movement of goods that will be imported into Ukraine under the Convention on Temporary Imports? Perhaps you all know very well what customs are today. We know what's going on in the West Regional Customs, we know how much bribes have to be paid in order to get a job. And we know that, for example, Western customs personnel are controlled by a political party called SDPU. Let's think about what actual losses the budget has from such smuggling operations? That's really hundreds of millions of dollars. And that means that it's money that our doctors, our teachers, our cultural workers didn't get. So I'm convinced that the main problem for us today is the problem of controlling temporary imports. We understand very well that today's customs is really a big black hole in the Ukrainian budget. So I think it's time that my predecessors said this to create a special temporary commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the state of affairs at Ukrainian customs, not just in the West, because we have the same hole both in eastern Ukraine and on the border with Moldova. And on the border with Russia. And I think this is a very important question for the Ukrainian economy today. We understand very well that this Convention will, in fact, simplify the crossing of the temporary import border, perhaps allow our entrepreneurs to participate in international exhibitions much more often, and this is the exit to the European market. Of course, this convention needs to be ratified, but once again, I stress that question number one today is the control over temporary imports, so that it doesn't become a huge black hole in the Ukrainian budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u95	Oleg Belarus, we have one minute left. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! Today, perhaps for the first time in this room, the discussion of ratification or accession to international conventions really resembles a parliamentary discussion. But despite all the greatness, despite the problems that have been posed, the whole range of issues that have been raised by our colleagues today remains a matter of higher order. Customs today is a matter of Ukrainian state sovereignty. What state sovereignty can be discussed if there are no national boundaries in Ukraine today that are finally defined and protected. Customs is the foundation of economic sovereignty and economic security of the state. What kind of sovereignty and security can we talk about when today's Odessa customswoman is showing in front of our citizens about the corruption of half a million dollars a day. It's going through the west and so on and so on and so forth. The time has come when the Supreme Council, which is directly responsible not only for the formation of internal and external policies but also for the constant and uninterrupted control of government activities. The Supreme Council should set up a standing commission on customs control. With regard to Ukraine’s accession to the International Convention on Temporary Imports, there seems to be no problem. This is a step toward improving our legislative base. But let's look at it more broadly. Today we are saying that this year Ukraine will join the GAT SOT system. And there's no legislation. Europe's integration today is like this: Ukraine's export orientation is 40 percent of the GDP that goes to export. The budgetary implications are very small. Look into the facts. The external trade balance of Ukraine is five billion plus. And these five billion remain abroad. We're lending the Western economy, count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. Time is up. Out of procedure, please. No, very much. Then write your motives down. Please sign in. Three minutes of motivation, because that's going to be infinity. Sign up for three minutes, please. Vladimir Makeenko, please. I say sign up, please. And from the procedure, and from the motives, write it down. The procedure is over, we've discussed the matter. It is now possible to vote only on the grounds of the vote. Yes, Boris Bespali, please. I'm sorry, don't turn on the microphone. Let's check it out here. Manchulenko Georgie. So I'm wrong, I'm wrong, I'm wrong, I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u98	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head, dear colleagues! The question that we are considering right now is extremely important. Without a doubt, customs problems are and are serious problems. Both in the western region of Ukraine and in the eastern region. In the West it's the abuse of duty, of bribes, of the East -- there are also these facts, and the problem is that the transparent one is actually a border. On the other hand, we need to understand and remember that Ukraine wants to be a full member of the European family and integrate into the European Union. By not approaching its legislation to the European Union, including through similar conventions on integration into the European Union, we will have to put it to rest. So I think in this situation we need to support the ratification of this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u99	Uncle, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u100	Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u101	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing you for what reason. I understand that you have automatics now and the MPs are automatically shut down. But I think so. You know, I think we need to get a little closer to our colleagues. And when the deputy finishes, he literally has two words left to say, but you can still continue to be able to speak. I mean, it's a very interesting, full performance by Professor Belarus. Sadly, we were not able to hear what he meant at the end of his fiery performance. That's why I'm asking for the future, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to be more correct with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u103	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u104	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I asked why the procedure? Because there is always a problem in discussing ratification issues, and who has ratified this agreement? For example, regarding this agreement, I wondered if Russia had ratified it? And only Yuri Carmazin said a little bit about it. Why? We have one product that is temporarily imported into Ukraine -- the gas that is stored in the karst vaults in Ukraine, the Russian gas, which is then going to Europe, and we, by keeping it in place, then we have some responsibility to Russia all the time, as if we were stealing this gas. Whether this convention is intended, first of all, for the elaboration of this issue in detail. After all, Russia did not fully ratify the agreement. And the second. I have a question for the customs office, which is represented here by the official. Please explain the difference in mathematics between the rate of movement of goods across the customs border given by German, Polish and Ukrainian customs officials, what is the problem with this difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Customs representative, do you have anything? Very short. I'm begging you very briefly. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, if you can literally say a few words. And get ready for the vote. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think all the points of view were expressed in the discussion process, but the only point of view as to the need for Ukraine to join this convention is that I would like to support it in the light of the above. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. What? Dear colleagues, we've run out of time. I am voting for the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Integration of Ukraine into the Convention on Temporary Imports, registration number 0172. Please vote. [[11:43:24]] For 374 Dear colleagues, the vote took place, the decisions taken, what other motives? Please, Boris Bespaly, with motive for voting. Please don't delay, Your Honor. Time's up. It's over. Question completed. One Bespallian, that's all. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u107	Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have indeed, in accordance with the Rules, very much asked for words from the voting procedure, because in today's speech, the representative of our faction Roman Mikhailovich Zvarič made it clear that we should follow the constitutional procedure, I remind you not only the Rules, but also the voting procedures. And there's a big request, and I wanted to say it before the first vote, but before the next vote, to announce the missing and delete their cards is the first. Secondly, we have great respect for our colleagues who have been invited to work in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and we are proud to have brought them up here. But we do have, the Law on Incompatibilities is in force. And the question is, where do they finally work, because any voice can have a decisive meaning. They should respect themselves if not themselves, the Constitution of Ukraine. And hopefully you'll finally do it. And this is our firm demand for our Ukraine. Don't provoke me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u108	Thank you. I beg you not to be afraid. No one's gonna provoke anyone yet. And now I ask Adam Ivanovich to read out who of the national MPs is missing for important reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that the National Deputys of Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovitch, Vashuk Katerina Timofievna are in the Feofania Clinic, and the National Deputies of Musiyak, Zivago and Klimpus are on mission. For those who work in the government, you see, they are all present today and are participating in our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u110	Yavorowski, please. And now let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u111	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I very much want this to be recorded today. I am the deputy head of the Interim Investigation Commission, who is tracking the facts of smuggling on Ukrainian customs. I'm just using what is General Ivanyuk here, the deputy head of the Customs Committee, I just want it to be recorded. The commission began to work, and it began to work quite actively. To this day its work is virtually blocked. So far we have not been given the facts: how much from the Polish side, on the German side, on the other hand, how much cargo has crossed the Ukrainian customs. I ask you very much, Mr. Ivanyuk, to unlock the work of our commission, because we must report for its work as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Orestes Dmitrovich Klimpus is present, he is in the session room. So wrongly, he returned from the ship. Yeah, yeah, he just came in. Ladies and gentlemen, enough of this! I ask the Secretariat to respond accordingly to the cards of those national deputies who are not available for good reasons. Everybody happy? Now let's get back to work. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on cooperation and mutual assistance in the area of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences is under review. Is there a need to report this document? Please. Dear colleagues, calm down. I'm begging you. First Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Kosolapov Anatolia Grigorovovich, to the report. I'll be brief. Prepare John the Rabbit. Three minutes to report, five minutes to question, and accordingly to the co-rapporteur. The discussion is in 15 minutes. Did everyone agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You have before you a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on cooperation and mutual assistance in the area of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences. The bill is a logical extension of the friendship and cooperation agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Lithuania on February 8, 1994. The draft agreement is designed to implement the plan of arrangements reached during the official visit of President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma to the Republic of Lithuania on 29 October 2002. The contract was signed on June 5, 2003, during an official visit to Ukraine by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Lithuania. The legal basis for the adoption of the law is article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and the need to settle the issue of customs formalities. Ratification of the agreement on which the law is adopted does not require additional funding. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. Five minutes. Please sign in. Put a name on the sign for the National Deputies. Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. Andrew School will be next to ask this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u115	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear reporter! Tell us, please, what are some of the extraordinary situations that have been planned, whether they have already been. What it is on a practical level, as you report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u116	Thank you. Exceptional situations are not planned, this agreement is for the future in the event of these situations or mutual information if such extraordinary situations may arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u117	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u118	Dear reporter! Of course, we need to back this deal up, but tell me. Will this really cost the budget? Because it's important to be honest with your constituents. And I want the rest of the time passed on to Stephen the Cloud so that he can ask his question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u120	Let me continue with the questions. Dear reporter! Say, please, such agreements are absolutely necessary, but I'd like you to tell me how they really materialize, so they don't just stay on paper? And why I'm asking this question because you said it didn't need any budget spending. If he doesn't need it, it's just a piece of paper. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. I said I didn't need any more funding. In line with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, there may be small costs, either from a reserve fund or other sources. And how it will be. These things happen, I'll say that's in line with the requests of that side or our side if we don't have to eliminate some severe consequences of a natural or technological nature. It'll be mutual assistance then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u122	George Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u123	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. The Honourable Head, a respected reporter, no doubt sets a fine example in providing help in emergency situations. And this has been confirmed repeatedly by our actions and the high qualifications of our rescuers. The issue needs to be given to both the Ministry and those who worked to eliminate the consequences of the accident. I believe that this agreement needs to be kept clearly. I would like to learn from you: For the time being, with which countries did Ukraine sign similar agreements and are they prepared for ratification, and at what stage is the consideration of these issues?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u124	For the time being, Ukraine has ratified similar agreements with 24 countries, including the countries of co-habitation and our close neighbours of European co-operation. [[Thank you for your questions and support]] This deal is signed on the 25th. If ratified, 25 treaties will be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u125	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u126	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Anatoly Grigorovich, you should have noted in your statement that this is a framework agreement, that this is a civilized approach to solving the problems of neighbors that there are already agreements with many countries, then you would have taken away many of the questions that have been asked in this room today. And of course, such a covenant must be maintained. But I have this question: how does your ministry plan to create some appropriate bodies that will respond to this, for example, with Lithuania, will it be created as necessary, a circle, a God-given disaster? Are there already persons mentioned who will be responsible for the implementation of these covenants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u127	Thank you. You remember that Ukraine was one of the participants in the elimination of natural disasters in the Islamic Republic of Iran. That's where our squads, emergency squads, filmologists went. There was a unit that provided medical care, and the hospital went out. So to this day these structures are created, they work effectively, as the practice suggested. And I think we're going to give other republics that kind of help.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u128	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u129	The well-respected Anatoly Grigoryevich, of course, this decision today must take place, no questions asked. I may not be quite on the subject, but, of course, helping neighbors and housing neighbors is very important. But in this context, what a day is said about, please, and what is our relationship with the Romanians on this subject. Because Romania is constantly, I'm sorry, poisoning the Tisa River basin, the next time they did it. Moreover, our representatives are not even allowed into this factory. So tell me, please, what is it, and why are there no order and no understanding between us and the Romanians on this subject? Whose fault is this? Whose fault is this? Because with Lithuania, there are no questions. But why don't we finish up with the nearest neighbor who, I beg your pardon, is poisoning us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u130	Thank you for asking. It's, really, maybe not a topic, but I'm going to answer so briefly that our relationship with the Romanians is consistent with the generally accepted international norms and principles. And that side, just like we are, we're informing you about the danger of an emergency. And you remember, just a week ago, this happened, the Romanian side informed us in time about those 10 tons of pouring into the river.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u131	Thank you, Anatoly Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. John the Rabbit. Dear colleagues, why don't we continue our work without further ado? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Well, now it's 12 hours, then let's get back to work. In 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, to the rostrum. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u133	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in the Area of Emergency Warning and Elimination of Their Consequences. Registration number 0173 from 28.01.2004, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The proposed bill is aimed at implementing tasks on the prevention of technological and natural emergencies, the reduction of their effects, the exchange of information on the possible or actual occurrence of an emergency, the exchange of emergency technologies, and so on. The covenant has 17 articles, including the final positions. The agreement states that assistance may be provided within the limits of the available resources for the State that provides such assistance. And this aid should be provided only if the state itself, where an emergency occurred, cannot warn or eliminate the consequences by its own means. This covenant regulates the conditions for voluntary assistance. This is not some kind of compulsion, and it is the good will of one party to help eliminate the consequences of the other. This help can be provided with the resources to extinguish fires, provide technical and medical assistance, perform other lifesaving tasks, and eliminate the effects of floods, radioactive and chemical pollution, environmental disasters, and other emergencies. This agreement sets out the mechanism for the exchange of information, describes how this assistance is being implemented, the designated authorities, and the contact points. The Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster is acting as an authority from Ukraine. The order of border crossings and the temporary stay of relief teams is regulated. This is, this agreement, it's basic and it's concluded with many countries. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance and Banking fully support the adoption of the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster decided to support the bill and recommend it to the Supreme Council as a law. I'd like you, national deputies, to support our committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u134	If you'd like to sign up for a question, five minutes, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u135	I know, I know. Mikhailo Kosov, Reform and Order Party, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear John Alexanderovich, this issue has already arisen in the process of the main report, but it is very important for us to ratify this covenant with a calm heart. What, in the context of the agreement, is the significance of extraordinary situations? Is there a list of those events that might be listed in this category, because if there's no such specification, and if it's designed for the future, then it's possible and any, well, any, even, give in to the word, the provocative moments that might fall under this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u136	Thank you. The answers to this question are found in the second article, which defines the terms used in this bill. It says that an emergency is a violation of normal living conditions and people's activities caused by an accident, a disaster, a natural disaster or other dangerous phenomenon that has caused or could lead to human and material costs. This term can also be clarified in the third article, which discusses how resources are provided under an emergency. So it can be said that there is a clear understanding in this covenant of what an extraordinary situation is and of the defined framework of this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u137	Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u138	Maria Marcus. Please pass the word to your colleague Masenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u139	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u140	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, I'm wondering, what is the guarantee that all the positions that are reflected in this bill are going to be implemented by both sides? I mean, it's a covert case that happened to Romania literally yesterday or when it was days ago, you know, our diplomats weren't even allowed in there, and there's a threat to Ukraine that's ecological. How much is this supposed to mean that we will not be distracted from solving any of the issues that are threatening to us?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u141	There are a number of articles that talk about how to cross the border, which discusses how to import or export equipment from one country or another, how to use aircraft, how to pay for expenses, and how to compensate for damage. So if you look at this list, you can say that our side is not going to be compromised. The question is that if, for example, Lithuania has an emergency situation and they ask us for help. [[Don't let God do that!]] We will volunteer to help them. So in this case, if we see something you're talking about, we can, in principle, not give it. But this bill deals with all of these questions that you're saying. And we need that kind of cooperation. You remember how we had the floods and were greatly helped. Remember the case in Kharkiv when the collector was out of order, and then thanks, by the way, to NATO, we received very powerful pumps to take away all of these impurities and prevent the pollution of the River of the River of Sivers. So the question is very good for you, but here it is in this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u142	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you so that you don't cancel out this question, because it's important, especially in the context of the events mentioned with Romania. Because of environmental damage, the environmental threat does not really have borders or boundaries. As for this agreement, I would like to ask: Is there transparency of information? Because you know about the same Romanian situation: we're fed information that these cyanides that have been thrown into the river are barely useful, not that they're threatening the life of the fauna and humans, and they're barely useful. So I think you should also predict the transparency of information flows. And Romania simply ignores all of Ukraine’s demands about what caused the ecological disaster and what caused these ecological disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u144	First, I agree that this is a very important issue and that it needs to be discussed in full order. We have a sad experience of polluting the Tissi River again on the same side of Romania, when we didn't get that information when we got, well, let me put it this way, it's not open. At the time, I was the minister and representatives of our territorial administration in the Zakarpatsk region went to Romanian territory, photographed the scene of this accident, and only these photos gave me the opportunity to have a dialogue with the Romanian side qualified and demanding. So the question of communication is a key question. And if you look at the agreement, there's the fourth article, "Ask for help and exchange of information." This 4th article says that this question is done in writing. It can also be done in oral form, but it must then be confirmed in writing. And this question defines the location, time and date, scale, nature of the emergency situation, as well as information on the current situation, assistance measures, and much more. I think you're asking absolutely the right question, and then you have to make a deal like this. Don't yell, give me a chance to answer. And then you have to write this deal in this particular part and even more detail than this one right over here. I completely agree with that. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u145	Yes, thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. We have 15 minutes to discuss. Please state on the table the name of the national MPs who signed up to participate in the debates on this issue. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Yuri Carmazin will be next. Turn on Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u146	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I am. We clearly support the ratification of this agreement beyond how it is the one that regulates the environmental situation in Ukraine and beyond and the cooperation between all the countries that surround Ukraine, with which it has friendly relations, is very important. And I would like to convey the word to my colleague Sergey Shevchuk so that he can explain his position. Most of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u147	Sergey Shevchuk, microphone, please enable the NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u148	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues! When we discuss this important issue, it seems somehow that Ukraine is making an additional commitment to the Republic of Lithuania by ratifying this agreement. Among other things, I would like to draw attention to the opposite. We have many similar things to do. And compatible experience can be extremely helpful to both government and parliamentarians. What do I mean? The Republic of Lithuania in its territory has an atomic power plant built according to the same projects as the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. And it would certainly be interesting for Lithuanian colleagues to know about all the complications of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant that Ukraine faced. And on the other hand, our nation would like to take advantage of this positive experience that the Republic of Lithuania has achieved when nuclear power plant blocks are being closed. international financial organizations are allocating funds, those funds have already received the Republic and are awaiting the next tranches. I think that the experience of working with international structures will also be very useful to us. In addition, Lithuania is known to enter the European community from May 1st. And for our nation, the ratification of the treaty will allow us to take advantage of some of the experience of this young, yet European state on the standards of safety of living with regard to the warning of emergencies. And that's why the ratification of the treaty involves, in my opinion, not just eliminating the consequences of technological accidents, but warning and prevention. Among other things, it was mentioned several times by another neighbouring state of Romania. Thus, the positive experience of working with the Republic of Lithuania will allow more serious negotiations with Romania. I will also remind my colleagues that we have been developing a very fruitful relationship recently between Ukraine and Lithuania, recently Mr. Grishchenko, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania, visited Lithuania. We have, as you know, created a constitutional assembly of Ukrainian-Lithuanian. And Lithuania is one of those few states that is taking concrete steps to simplify the visa regime between our states to simplify the border crossing by the citizens of both states. So all of these arguments say that we need to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u150	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! On June 5, 2003, a treaty was signed between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, which is now proposed to ratify. It regulates the terms and conditions of voluntary assistance provided on the basis of a request from each party to provide mutual assistance to the parties within their available resources in the event of an outbreak, do not give God extraordinary situations when the requesting party cannot warn or eliminate the consequences by its own means. I've carefully studied this agreement and I want to tell you that, unlike the previous agreement that we ratified in vain, without reservation, and here the vast majority of you, unfortunately, have voted, have not even postponed it, it is clearly written here that the customs processing, the equipment of aid materials and personal things and everything else that is imported and exported is carried out in accordance with the laws of the State Parties. Which clearly prohibits the import and export of weapons and ammunition, except for explosives that are needed. This is one example of the preparation of this agreement, how documents should be prepared for ratification. It's prepared at a fairly high legal and technical, scientific and technical level. I would now like to ask, using the presence of representatives of the government here, why are we still, as a representative of Restina, unable to understand why the Ukrainian government did not present today a note of protest against the Republic of Romania in connection with the fact that the Danube is polluted? Our cities in the Danube are being poisoned in this regard as soon as possible. Dniester and I drink water, and it all comes to us. Why is there still no note of protest? Why are we today free, this question to the Secretary of Defense, to Commander-in-Chief Kuchma, to Yanukovitch, as Prime Minister, free to shorten the first best in the former Soviet Union aeromobolic division in Belgrade? What are we doing? We leave only 500 soldiers there, 500 soldiers from a better VAT once, then an airmobile, the first aeromobile division is called, the regime under the knife, despite the fact that in Romanian military headquarters there are maps of a large Romania, where half of Ukraine, Besarabia and everything. What are we doing? Where national interests are protected, why it is not urgent for government officials to take the floor, why the Prime Minister is silent, to be prepared when he is nominated for presidents. And we don't need presidents who don't protect their own people, we need them to protect them. I believe that this treaty should be ratified, but the requirements for other treaties that are ratified should be the same. And I'm waiting for an answer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to protect the nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u151	Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, prepare the Lion of Lukyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u152	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out from the outset that our faction supports the ratification of such a treaty and not only because Lithuania is not India or Turkey, Lithuania is the post-Radians Republic, but it is very interesting. We have to study not only the output of the Ignoline nuclear power plant and the cost of such output, but we have to study there the experience of the President of the Republic of Lithuania, which is just as interesting, even though it's not in the interests of the Ministry that's telling us this question today. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. Always sending our representatives, the representatives of the state of Ukraine to help India or Turkey, who are in such a great deal of trouble as an earthquake, when from all screens of television we see how ours works, unfolds and works our hospital military or semi-military, the hospital of MNS Ukraine, like the locals, the people are grateful to our representatives and our nation, it is a great pleasure. But at the same time, this is to a large extent a continuation of all of these forces is at the expense of the state of Ukraine. So I would like to pay attention to the government and to our joint attention and propose, maybe Ukraine should say that first, to create a world insurance fund to help in the event of an emergency, so that we know in advance where we can get the necessary funds. Or for today, here's my colleague from the Dnipropetrov region, he was asking me questions and he was consulting me about helping to eliminate the danger that has arisen around the Transnistrian Hydrometalrgion. Or the yellow-water issue, where there was a very large structure that was involved in the production and processing of uranium crops. What, we're running out of money? Is it enough for us to demonstrate our participation in Turkey, India, or Lithuania? So I would like to stress, let's say that our efforts will be to warn us about the elimination of extraordinary events right here in Ukraine, and beyond Ukraine, let's still be more involved from foreign countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u153	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Prepare the Wider.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u154	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. The international experience of dealing with disasters, technological and natural, shows that these problems are really easier to solve in partnership and in cooperation with other nations. So this law will have to be approved, it is beneficial, and the Supreme Council has to put it into action. The tasks of the law are: to provide mutual assistance in dealing with the consequences of the emergency situations that have arisen; to ensure communication between the competent authorities of the parties; to facilitate the exchange of information on requests and proposals by the parties on such accidents; to interact within international organizations and programmes; to anticipate and assess emergency situations; to exchange information and telecommunications; and other activities related to the warning of emergencies and the elimination of their consequences, which may be agreed upon by the authorized authorities of the parties. There is no separate article in this bill that describes our State’s obligation to work with the Lithuanian State to prevent the consequences of accidents, and while we look at what is happening in Ukraine, we see that many such disasters could be avoided. Take, for example, our Carpathians. It is known that in the Carpathians, on their slopes, the forest is very intensively absorbed and palaces, houses, and so forth are built there, and we know who is doing it. So the forests in the Carpathians grew, and the gumus was there for millions of years. Now that the forests are cut out and the Carpathians are exposed, the rains and the spring floods wash away the humus that was made up of millions of years and exposed the rocks themselves. Once again, it takes thousands of years to gather that gum. And these ones that go away in one day, they destroy everything in their path. So, in fact, Ukraine would have to take care to ban logging and control and allow only sanitary cutting, and not to allow in any way to shave off the slopes of the Carpathian Mountains. This is done, and I believe that Ukraine should first take on such a warning of natural disasters. And not only do we have these nakedness of the Carpathian Mountains cause no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u155	Thank you, Leveko Grigorovitch. Yuri Shirko, "Our Ukraine" faction, last performance. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u156	Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party, Yuri Shirko, town of Raven. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We have a historical history with the Republic of Lithuania, and even in some historical times, we have entered into one state, so it's perfectly logical that we're making cooperation agreements and in the area of emergency warning with the Republic of Lithuania. It has already been mentioned by the National Deputies that the Republic of Lithuania has a positive experience in the operation and safety of the Ingulin nuclear power plant. This positive experience is expressed in the fact that even removals from the operation of blocks in the Republic of Lithuania are governed by separate laws. These laws determine the order of creation of compensatory power and the reimbursement of the cost of these blocks being removed from operation. It should also be noted that in the Republic of Lithuania there are also issues regarding the creation of funds for the disposal of nuclear power plants and the disposal of radioactive waste. This is exactly where this treaty is going to push our government to go along with it. Oh, that's right. Unfortunately, three times I was asked by the MPs, I was told that there was not a month left to answer when a normative basis would be in place for the creation of nuclear power plants and for the disposal of radioactive waste. A negative answer was given as to how land is selected to build a temporary shelter for so - called thermal storage or decommissioned nuclear fuel. There was also a negative response that a supply of equipment is being prepared in Ukraine at nuclear power stations, equipment produced in a neighbouring state that has not passed the prescribed deadlines and established standards that are also dangerous to our nation. And I think that this is the kind of agreement that will be the driving force to push our government on the path of establishing a regulatory base and putting it into Parliament's consideration, on the way that we will be looking at, in the light of the conventions signed by Ukraine, just the order in which we choose land for the sites for nuclear fuel storage, and in general the creation of opportunities for safer exploitation of such objects as nuclear stations and other technology objects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. If there are no warnings, I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law "On Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Cooperation, Mutual Assistance in the Area of Emergency Warning and Elimination of Their Consequences", registration number 0173. Please vote. [[12:58:53]] For 405 Decision taken. The draft Regulation on the procedure for the consideration of the issue and the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of decisions on them 24-26 March 2004 is being announced. I'll put it to a vote. Attention, please. - to include the draft decision in the agenda. Registration number 5303. [[12:59:33]] For 237 Questions are included in the agenda. May I have your attention, Your Honor? From the procedure? The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 39, Communist faction - 57, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs' Party and "Urban Ukraine" - 37, SDPU - 38, "The People's Government" - 12, SPI - 2, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 14, "The People's Choice" - 15, "The People's Choice" - 13, NDP - 5, non-fractional - 5. From the procedure, please log in. Three minutes out of the procedure. Sign up, three minutes. And please prepare Stepan Bogdanovich for the report. Yes, on the board, please, the names of the national MPs who sign up for questions. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. The next one will ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u158	I give the word to Roman Zvaric. Please, Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u159	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a spokesman for the faction that took place this morning, expressed several demands. Among them was our firm demand that when it comes to the issue of the inclusion of procedural issues in the agenda, we require that the legislators take the floor and justify the need to bring such matters into the agenda. You've broken that question. We are now demanding that we ask each other for further questions. A representative of the group of initiators of these issues spoke up and specifically reasoned on these issues. And we're also asking you to give an official answer or a preliminary consideration of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! I didn't do anything wrong. Because if the question is not included in the agenda, then there will be no subject to discuss it, to reason on the matter. But, dear fellows, one more moment. In accordance with the Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine deals with procedural matters without the relevant committee’s consent. And if anyone has doubts as to whether it is a procedural question or not, he may turn to the Supreme Council and the chairman will put the matter to the vote so that the Supreme Council will determine whether it is procedural or not. This, I think, is obviously a procedural question. Now, dear fellows... The discussion will be after the reporter. I'm just answering the questions. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We've included questions on the schedule of meetings, and now we're going to discuss them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! This is not only a question that should not be included but also a question that should not be considered. I appeal to the national deputies again, but you are not the sheep, and Gabriel is not the shepherd. Why are we going to think that this is such an approach that we're being guided by who we want? Let's be serious, let's work clearly. We were told you don't go to the districts this Sunday, work here. Now here. That Medvedchuku is reluctant to take up his post as Head of the Supreme Council? Let him wait a while, there's still time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u163	Volinec Mikhailo, please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u164	Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u165	Alexander the Turk’s word is given by Volinc.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u166	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm going to remind you that Wednesday is our calendar and Wednesday we're looking at, we're voting exclusively on ratification issues. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our faction does not understand why there is now a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. It's not Thursday or Tuesday. And that's why I'm asking very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the procedural issue, it's unprocedural, not to violate the Rules. And we vote Tuesday and Thursday, I remind you. Next question. Dear colleagues, we are now offered eight new decrees. Only half an hour or an hour ago, they were handed over to the national deputies. I ask again questions to the Supreme Council leadership: how much will we abuse common sense, the people's deputies, who are forced to vote for things they haven't even seen in their eyes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, yesterday we discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council. And I went to the leaders of MP groups and factions and asked for one thing, asked the leaders of MP groups and factions: give me the right, let the Supreme Council of Ukraine give the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the right to form a meeting schedule, the agenda. Then there was no violation of the Rules. In this case, violations of the Rules are covered by a decision of the Conciliation Council and you are determined. Make such a decision, vote. And then I won't have to do the will of the conciliatory council. I will act by doing the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because in this case, there's a moment that the Conciliation Council replaces the Supreme Council, that's a fact. Now let's move on to the question. Please, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish. Let's make this decision, make this decision, and then we don't have any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the decision-makers, I would like to bring to your attention that we have acted in accordance with the parliamentary democracy embodied in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we propose that the Supreme Council decide today to take a decision on 24-26 March 2004 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the timing of meetings with the simultaneous adoption of decisions on them. We believe that, at this time, the portfolio of the Supreme Council of Ukraine contains a huge number of legislative initiatives by the national MPs, the government, the National Bank and the President of Ukraine that require the resolution of these issues. Notice that we have recently been working in extremely stressful ways. So we suggest today that we make a decision so that we can identify ourselves in the session room with regard to issues that are not resolved today by the Supreme Council, which the electorate is looking forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! It's gonna be okay. The question is three minutes. Sign up for questions. Since this is a procedural issue, read the Rules. Please, three minutes. Ivan Alexandrovich, don't piss me off. Rozwadowski, please, the People's Authority MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u170	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, I'd like to ask you, not as an MP, but as a human being. Please tell me you don't have a county? I won't ask you any more questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u171	How do I answer that there are five areas where I am a fairly influential national MP who works with voters all the time?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u172	Sergey Bubka, please, faction of the Ukraine region. You don't? Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u173	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Please tell me, do you feel some pressure? Well, what we have in the walls of the Supreme Council is, and it's clear, we've got some political dispersion going on, we've got two parties, so to speak, one, we're going to talk about Albright's grandmother and Bzezinsky's grandfather, the other, our very friendly Ukrainian, who's going to defend our national interests. Would you please say, from your point of view, what do the Ukrainian national interests actually look at today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u174	Thank you. I feel no doubt the pressure, and today it was demonstrated in a speech by one of the national deputies. But at the same time, I think it's the normal practice of our current discussion, people who define the next fate of the Ukrainian nation. We have different views, but we must be united by Ukraine itself. I wouldn't want us to be hostage to personal ambitions by doing the strategic tasks that people who call themselves the Ukrainian political elite are facing. That's why we're proposing exactly what the opposition demanded yesterday -- the adoption of the Relative Elections Act. And to do that, we need time to discuss almost a thousand comments and suggestions made in this law. To discuss and decide on the Local Elections Act, elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where observations were posted on 220 pages. I think it takes time, and it's the most democratic public open procedure. So I'd like to ask all of us to focus on our legislators' responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u175	Gregory Dashutin, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u176	Gregory Dashutin, a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine. Stephen Bogdanovich, we, too, really feel some pressure and dissatisfaction with our conduct. But the Hard Ukraine faction has supported and supported your election as the focal point of the majority. And for today, we want to confirm your right decision. So do not pay attention to any ambitions or ambitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u178	Joseph Wynsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u179	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Stephen Bogdanovich, it is clear that the laws of the electorate must be adopted. I don't think anyone needs to be convinced. But we do this kind of good work, and we do it wrong. Let us, if we constantly encounter a problem that needs to be voted on indeterminately by the Rules of Days, let us change the Rules not to date, nor to tomorrow, nor to any particular situation. We have already offered this many times. Let us vote that from this day forward all the sessional days go on to consider issues and make decisions, as it was before the right time. And so we're taking down the problem and it doesn't raise any suspicion about the art of putting it up. Because that's what the question is right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Joseph Vicentiovich, you know that the ad-hoc procedure is not a rule for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but is often used to make decisions. We are acting according to this way of the Rules. As far as your offer is concerned, it is absolutely fair. And I think that when it's introduced, we'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u181	Thank you, Stephen Bogdanovich. Please sit down for a while. Dear colleagues, on the board, we need two in favour, two in favour, because it's a procedural question, I'm saying again. This is a procedural question. Yes, dear fellows. Please, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, the Communist faction, prepare Yuri Carmazin. I'm not imposing, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u182	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, today we are witnessing the great opposition, on the one hand, of Ukraine as an independent Ukrainian state, which has to solve its own tasks, taking into account its millennial history and traditions, taking into account the mentality of the Ukrainian people, and on the other hand, the forces that are the fifth column, the so-called Eurowalkers, the grandchildren of Bzezhinski and Granny Albright. So let's be honest and honest, who are we? Either we're citizens and patriots of Ukraine, or we're the fifth column, on 5 channels and 5 copies. The Communist faction supports this bill. We believe that today, despite some of the contradictions that have arisen, we must do our utmost to ensure that the political process associated with political reform takes place to the end. I thank you for your attention and please support the entire Ukrainian people beg for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u183	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would ask that we maintain peace and balance. I'm asking you very much. Dear colleagues, please. In harmony with article 4.2. 3.2.4 comes from. Two factions from factions -- two for, two against the procedural question. And then let's define by vote. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u184	My time, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. For those of the Fifth Column, I answer that we are a people whose "really power has never been conquered by anyone." And we're going to beat the fifth column, because what's now being proposed is, in fact, the destruction of Ukrainian statehood. What, tomorrow you just don't have the election law? Have all the questions been resolved in Ukraine? Let's just solve the election issue. And now, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you try to do according to the Rules, according to the Rules. I would like to remind you that there is a Constitution and there is constitutional law. According to the Constitution and the Law on the Election of the People's Deputy, article 12 - "The Law of the Legislative Initiative of the People's Deputy", it states that it is implemented in the form of a bill, a draft decree, another proposal that the MP has the right to speak with a legislative initiative in the Supreme Council, to participate in the debates, to ask questions, to speak on the ground. So tell me, please, when? Four days, five days tops. Rabbit, you're distracting me. When five days from the Rules. Five days from the Rules are now used only for the preparation of the laws that are given, since 14 days should be with the National Rapporteur in preparation, 14, not including weekends and holidays, and not including sessional sessions. What are you doing? You rule that out, you're now referring in your blasphemous decree 5303 to paragraph three. in part three of article 3.2. 3 Rules But this part speaks very differently: it speaks of making decisions on procedural and organizational matters. And you and I have made changes to the Rules, where Turkinov rightly told you that we only vote on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Let's vote, let's change the Rules in general, we'll adopt the Rules Act as set out in the Law on the Status of People's Deputies. And then it will be valid, according to the law, as laid down. Today, however, this rule is brutally violated. And I'm very sorry, Stephen Bogdanovich, that you don't even want to look at the corrections you've been given in due time because you're following orders, and you're following a disgraceful, order of chancellors! Stepan Bogdanovich, you were asked correctly by Rozwadowski about the county, right, because there are plans for work, where they should be kept all the time. We prevent other people from doing work in the district today. So I think that's a 530 proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u185	We're just here. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, we are now, I want to draw your attention, we are not discussing the limitation of the ability of deputies to make their amendments. It's about making decisions on the 24th and the 26th. That's what this is all about. And the next question, let's talk about -- that's where we have to define the position. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. First of all, I would like to explain why we are discussing the very average question of voting or not voting there on Wednesday or Friday. This will be clear once we understand why it is done. There is simply a mere rape of the Supreme Council to make the most rapid, completely senseless, without having to make an immediate literal change to the Constitution. This is the pace and way I'm going to say it's an attempt at anti-constitutional rebellion. And these rates can only be explained in this way. Because I don't understand why such important laws, and this is a step, this 24, 25, 26 votes, are steps towards adopting political reform. And this step will be taken, and the rape will begin. This is a moment of relaxation. I'd like to say it's always easier to go down. Let's stand, let's stand at the limits of the Rules, at the limits of common sense, because I would like to address all of you, to all the national MPs. Well, you do realize that bushmocrats need carnivores. Do you want to turn into bushmanoids? I'm talking to most of them. Stay at least humanoids, even humans. Do not become satraps of the existing regime, have your opinion! I want to speak to the Communists. Be communists! Don't turn into coochmanoids. Well, there are normal, sane people among you! Why do you want to go to Bank and Medvedchuk? Why then blush in front of your own electorate? And I'd like to address the Supreme Council, all of us. When a law is adopted in this way that will determine fate, then the fate of the whole state, because the Constitution is the law of the state, the law that we all live by. If this is how changes are made, can they be qualitative? Can they be consistently clear and understandable? No! No! This is all done to preserve the existing regime in power through the Constitution. That's all the changes to the Constitution. It's all colliding, hinting at the existing regime to tell you: nothing like that, everything will be fine, the Supreme Council will appoint the Cabinet of Ministers, take pictures, wear clothes. No, it's all going to be Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will receive the same unlimited powers that the President now has. And they -- these powers -- are unlimited. So it would seem so simple and ordinary. The average decision to increase the voting term raises my suspicions when a completely normal vote is not supported every day. I have repeatedly called from this rostrum and have urged that we should consider and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u187	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u188	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! We have always supported, in general, our faction, the fruitful idea that was expressed today by our colleague Joseph of Winsky, who is reflected in a draft decree that is somehow not systematically voted by the majority of the President in order to have their votes immediately after the discussion. This should always be the case. And perhaps when the author of the decision is now the first deputy of the Head, it will finally be voted. This is the first position. But why is it that all of a sudden today no power has fallen, and those who have always been against it have suddenly stood up for it. There's a reasonable suspicion. It's getting stronger when we see that it's those who are two years old, namely, the Presidential majority, that two years have systematically failed the Law on Proportional Choices of Dogs of All Levels. Well, isn't that right, dear colleagues? You have the right to your position, we respect it, the supporters of the major elections, you've knocked it down, and all of a sudden today you want to adopt these laws, and not just adopt them, but what you've done for two years, you're imposing on us, not on us, but on the Ukrainian people, in two minutes. Then this conclusion is reached, not the suspicion that it is not in the laws at all, it is not in the text at all, it is in the context. And the context is very simple, the context is that the oligarchs and their services are very afraid to lose their Eldorado, and they want to release the people from retirement, they want to release the people from the presidential election, and now they want to release the people from all kinds of elections, and they want to free the people of the people, you, your fellow citizens, also in retirement, because for you somewhere, someone in the towers will be on the phone in two minutes, directing our presidency, and we have something that we don't understand. That's the pattern here. And this anti-national logic is just as normal as the snow in January or the heat in July. But I want to remind them all that knowledge of the laws does not relieve the responsibility of either the chief lawyer of Ukraine or his textbook. And people need something different: people have already suffered from the fact that the budget of Ukraine was taken in haste without any discussion. As a result, there is VAT on medicines, VAT on agricultural produce. Not many people have traveled the food literally, and so are the spiritual food -- the book and the country's bookkeeping -- have also been taxed. That's why we need to consider urgently the projects that Victor Yashchenk, Pinzenic, Anatoly Matthews have made to settle these social issues and only then take care of your own business. Thank you for your attention. I hope you understand our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u189	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts, positions were expressed. We have every reason to put the draft document to the vote. May I have your attention, fellow officers? We exchanged thoughts. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the draft Supreme Council decision on how to deal with the issues and decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on them in 24-26 2004. Registration number 5303. [[13:24:53]] For-188. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues! There was an offer, honourable colleagues, that was an offer to get us into a normal mode of work, that after we accepted, we would consider the question, we would accept it immediately. [[May I have your attention, please? Calm down!]] So let me now propose and vote, and I propose that we make such a decision that we make changes to certain provisions of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by putting in part one, two articles 3.2. [[Well, listen!]] 1, part one, article 3.7. 3, articles 3.7. 6, 4.3. 3, parts two, four, and five of articles 4.3.4 in the June 28, 1996, issue of Awake! The article is being edited. In this regard, delete in part two of article 3.2. 5 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3.7.1, 3.7.5, 4.3.2. - 4.3.7. And then we'll work properly. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[13:26:28]] For 392 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in view of the decision we have taken, I say to the transcript that, taking into account the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will entrust the Committee on Rules of Procedure with the participation of the Chief Legal Authority to carry out technical and legal work on the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? At the request of two factions, a break is declared. The factions of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine are announced for a recess of up to 13 hours 58 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to continue our work so that we may at least hear what the factions who took a break have come out of. I'm talking about Julia Timoshenko's block and our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u191	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. I can greet you like this, because I particularly want to congratulate those national MPs who today have shown their courage by not agreeing with the Bank's plans, which were designed to violently sell political reform. I congratulate you on that. Because you've really been acting like Ukrainian parliamentarians today. [[Applause]] I, in particular, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, would like to mark your principle of adherence, strict adherence to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. But given that there is reason to suspect that this issue will continue to grow in the face of regulatory standards, we would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, of our principles of the matter. First requirement. Every day, when any issue is considered that requires a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will demand that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be declared missing for any reason from the national deputies of Ukraine, and that their cards be deleted. And, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we draw your attention to the fact that in addition to the fact that you have announced this list, some of the national deputies called you have voted in this session room. Second requirement. In any case, when changes are proposed to the order of the day session, the session, we will demand that this issue be justified. In the absence of soundness of mind, the need for the question that is proposed to be put in place in an orderly manner for the session or for the session, our faction will not support such an initiative. And the third requirement is the most plausible requirement, because it is this requirement that protects the independence and democracy of the Ukrainian Parliament: before considering essentially making changes to the Constitution, we still demand that the issue of order and procedure for amending the Constitution be regulated. This is the only way you can protect the Ukrainian National Deputy without any external pressure. And I also remind you that this is the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe so that there is a limited question of amending the Constitution from the issue of presidential elections. And, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm drawing attention to the clock: you can continue the session until 14:00, now it's 14.03. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u192	For reasons, please, Simonenko. Then Rudzkowski. Dear colleagues, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u193	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'd like to ask you, and you can do that by voting in the hall, just to decide on a few of the following draft laws that we have in our agenda are 4285, 2211, 5037 and 5037-d. These are the draft laws that define our perspective on the adoption of laws on the election of national deputies and deputies to the local councils of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. So I'd like to ask if you can continue on your own, based on the Rules, or let's vote in the Chamber that we continue this morning session by 15 hours, and let's define these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, well, I see. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I see! Dear colleagues, please calm down! Rudzkowski. Dear colleagues, please be calm. Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u195	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if you really are now from 14:00 to 14:15 you have this possibility, if you don't put the question to the vote by 14:15, then all the other votes will be illegal. So you have to decide here. We must follow the Rules clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I follow the Rules. And I continued to work for 14 hours for 15 minutes. That's all I have. Please, Turkov. That's all I've got, dear fellows! I asked when, before Roman Zvaric's performance, to continue our work so that we could exchange our thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I am addressing both the Head of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies. First of all, I think it's been gone for 15 minutes until the second hour. But even, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, when you imagine that you have now continued for 15 minutes to the second 15th session, no question can be considered, because there is a procedure for dealing with the issue. In three minutes, the question, Peter Mikolaiovich, is not being considered. There should be, there should be speeches, there should be other regulatory procedures that we have in the Supreme Council. All other options will be seen as a rude, cynical violation of the Rules and will protect the Rules, Laws and Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-24-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. We have five minutes left, we really can't look at the question in five minutes. Therefore, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Dear colleagues, no need for applause, please! And we'll be the first to consider questions after organizational questions: The Law on the Election of Ukrainian People’s Deputies. Tomorrow's the first time since organizational matters.
