ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:47]] Registered -435 A total of 435 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with articles 4.2.1, 4.2.2 of Chapter 4.2 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decisions of the general assembly of members of the People's Choice Group since 20 May 2004, the withdrawal from the protocol is added, please inform the people's deputies of Ukraine at the plenary meeting regarding the renaming of the National Election Group as the deputy group of the Union. The main objective of the Union's parliamentary group as well as the People's Choice Group is to ensure the implementation of the State's policy to ensure the sustainable development of the domestic economy, to implement a set of measures aimed at further political restructuring of the Ukrainian society and to effectively fulfil the commitments made to its constituents and to expand the representation of the regions in the group. The authorized representatives of the "Soyuz" MPs are the national deputies of Bagraev, Hapochka, Goshovsky, Kirilov, Mirimsky, Nadraga, Soloshenko. Statement: In accordance with the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal from the Democratic Initiative Group. The People's Authority and the membership of the Union's MP group. People's Deputy Tooth. [[Applause]] Statement: In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal from the Democratic Initiative Group. The People's Authority and the membership of the Union's MP group. People's deputies are cheap. [[Applause]] In harmony with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes with you to announce requests, statements, messages, and proposals by the national MPs. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for proposals and messages. In the meantime, I'm going to ask questions because we have quite a number of them. Yes, please explain who signed up. Prepare for the performances. And in the meantime, I'll call in the questions. Yes, the following questions came from the Ukrainian national deputies. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on unlocking the activities of the State Commission from securities and stock markets. [[THE PASTOR, THE SEA, THE FOOD, MATTHEW, AND OTHERS. Total 6 deputies]] Please support the President's request. [[10:06:50]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine for illegal actions by the Government regarding the distribution of centralised capital and state funds to eliminate the effects of technological accidents on individual regions of Ukraine. [[VOLUNTARY, SEMEN, AND OTHERS. Total 4 deputies]] Please identify yourself with the support of a query. [[10:07:33]] For 169 Decision taken. And now I'm asking you to make a determination to refer the request to the President. [[10:07:57]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Igor JOURNAL to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation in the village of Vasilyvka in the region of Balgrad in connection with the death of people in a car accident on May 16, 2004. Please make up your mind. support the request. [[10:08:32]] For 118 The decision is not taken. John VASUNIK and Yuri Shirka to the President of Ukraine on the urgency of the establishment of the State Committee to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Please identify yourself with the support of a query. [[10:09:02]] For-161 Decision taken. Please identify yourself as to the President's request. It takes 226 votes. [[10:09:24]] For-174 Petra TLOČKA to the President of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the National Museum of Ukrainian People's Decorative Art. Please determine whether to support the request. [[10:09:49]] For-161 Decision taken. Please identify yourself as to the President's request. [[10:10:11]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Petra SIMONENKA to the President of Ukraine for the completion of the memorial complex for heroic defenders and the liberators of the city of Sevastopol during the Great War of Homeland on Cape Krustalny. Please support the request. [[10:10:43]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Stepan Cloud to the President of Ukraine regarding the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the early termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Sergio Kiwalov, in connection with his violation of the requirements of nonconformity of the status of a member of the Central Electoral Commission with his membership in the High Council of Justice. Please determine what the content of the request is. [[10:11:25]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine for the award of the title Hero of Ukraine to the World Boxing Championship in a super-heavy category under the version of the World Boxing Confederation, Vitalia Klicka. Please make up your mind. [[10:11:56]] For-88 The decision is not taken. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the violation of article 19, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ukrainian Security Service for the provision of information to the Ukrainian National Deputy. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of language legislation by the authorities and employees of the State Saving Bank in Kiev. Romana ZVARIČA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of a public education school in the village of Babin in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Ms. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal provided for by valid legislation, the benefits of utilities and apartment fees for persons with disabilities in the conduct of military service and rural medical and pharmaceutical personnel. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds from the State budget for the construction of a water decontamination station in the village of the city-type Lubar of the Žitomir region. Oleg KARJOWA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for gross violation by the customs authorities of Ukrainian legislation on State support for the bookstore in Ukraine. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the Sevastopol City Public Administration for the completion of the construction of the memorial complex by heroic protectors and liberators of the city of Sevastopol during the Great War of Homeland at Mt. Krustalny. Mr. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply of Vice Prime Minister Andrey Klav to the request for a crisis situation in the socio-economic sphere in the city of Dobromili Lviv. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the housing problem of the Panczak multi-child family, which consists of six disabled children from childhood and a single pensioner mother living in the city of Lviv. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal pressure of the Suma District Authority against students who protest the unmotivated decision to merge three universities in Suma. The Jury of ARTEMENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of raising tariffs for work and services performed and provided at the expense of the institutions and institutions of the state health and epidemiology service. Sergia SLABENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of the reconstruction of the Pavlovska pivoslovska pivoslova plant, the removal of submersibles in the village of Budići Ivaničov district and the reconstruction of sewage treatment facilities in the city of Ljuboml and the village of the city type of Ivanics in the Volin region. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the completion of the gas pipeline in the village of Upper Hortica of Zaporozhye. Mr Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the adoption of measures for the State-owned conservation of the “Krennergemere project” Institute. Ms SLABENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of a list of the constituencies concerned by the Government's decisions, the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects and the implementation of measures to prevent accidents and technological disasters in the housing and utility sector and other municipal property accidents in 2004. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of State budget subsidies to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects in 2004. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Ivano-Frankov garrison military hospital and its further use as a district for the treatment and medical care of war veterans, war invalids and military personnel. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purposeless use of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund for the Single Economic Space. VYACHESLALA KYRILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the basis of the eligibility of allocating funds from the State budget to finance the Single Economic Area and to publicize the objectives and purposes of their use. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the restoration of the benefits to categories of persons who have suffered the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. MICHELLA RUDKOVSKI to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the provision of legal entitlements to benefits in the payment of municipal services to residents of Chernigova. Mr Mikhail VOLINZA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on unlawful interference with the activities of the All-Ukrainian National Trade Union “Footballists of Ukraine” Vladimir LÄCHENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine in connection with the failure to obtain official information, in fact, on a request from 6 April 2004 for the removal by the Montenegrin City Council of Legal Aids of individual categories of citizens. Alexander MASSENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the granting of disability benefits in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, resident of the village of Tchaikowščina in the region of Poltava. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka and Mr. Mikolia NOSENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Andrija Kljeva, on the ground of the disbandment of the Chernigian branch of the Kiev Wagon. Sergey Ivanova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal actions of the Director of the Society with limited responsibility “Agrofirma Velikolexandrovska” in the Herson region. BICHKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of victims in the case of fraud on a particularly large scale. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a criminal offence involving a limited liability society of the production and commercial firm Biologist in the Herson region. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of Ukrainian legislation during the procedure of the state-owned housing and utilities firm in Lviv. Mr. Volodymira PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal actions of Prosecutor Gorbenk, Alexandrian district of Kirovograd. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not allowing criminal responsibility for the serious crime of an innocent citizen named Podolak and the cessation of unprecedented pressure on the investigation and the trial of a prosecutor of the city of Kyiv by a citizen of Mitla. Jury BOJKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, for violations of the legal rights and interests of the Zubitsky family. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the legislation of Ukraine by the executive authorities and the law enforcement authorities of the Donetsk region. [[ONPENKO, CARMAZIN, TURKEYS, AND OTHERS. Total 17 deputies]] MICHELLA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on retirement benefits to persons working in prosecutorial and investigative positions. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful decision of the Kirovograd District Court of Kirovograd district concerning the appeal to the Agro-firm “Rebirth”. Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, for the delay in law enforcement investigations into the road traffic accident which resulted in the suffering of the minor Shrebti and the robbery attack on her father by the resident of the village of Lystvin of the Cherkas region. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Ukrainian minister of health for a large number of reports on public health care and the organization of this issue. THE Minister of Science and Education of Ukraine for the State of Implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Ordinance of 16 January 2003 “On the Approval of the School Bus Program. ” RAISES OF THE rich towards the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Higher Education Act of Ukraine in the activities of the Kharkiv State Institute of Art of Kotlarevski. Paul SILCHANA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for illegal dismissal from the position of director of the Mikolai District Institute of Postgraduate Pedagogical Education. Roman ZVARIČA to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the ill - advised medical care of the inhabitants of the Supreme District of Johno-Frankow. VICTOR OF THE DELIVERY to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine on the cessation of the restructuring of the Zitomir branch of the railway station of Kyiv-Passajrski, the abandonment in the area of the structural unit of the driver’s reserve and the formation of appropriate passenger trains in the city of Zitomir. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the settlement of the situation between the head of the Lviv District Military Organization of the Internationalists “Cubins” and the Lviv Regional Military Commission. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for clarification on the legalization of the Confederation of Free Trade Unions of Ukraine. Mr. Mikhaila RODIONOVA and Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science concerning the organization of the Military Department at the University of Cherka. Yurya BOJKA to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the crisis housing and housing situation in the military town of Semipolka in the Brovar district of Kyiv region. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka and Mr. Leonida Tanjuka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the establishment of the National Architectural and Historical Reserve “Chernigs of the Ancient” in the village of the village of Lubechi. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the gang attack on the Remenian Milk Plant of the Kamyanko-Buzki district of Lviv. [[HUDIMA, ALIEN, TRUTH]] Mikoli Shershun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Unsatisfying state of recovery of children in the Berezni district and in the Rhine region affected by the CHAES accident. Mr. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine regarding the establishment of a commission to identify the damage caused by the Ukrainian economy by an unjustified decision by the European Anti-Dumping Commission. Leonidas KADENJUKA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the unjust distribution of land rations in the village of Bilouszówka in the region of Cherniewec. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the head of the Kiev State Administration for the payment of the debt on salary to the employees of the Biloczerk Music and Dramatic Theatre called Saxeganski. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration, Prosecutor of the Ivano-Frankiv region, for the brutal violation of the constitutional right to housing of residents of Ticin 8-A in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk and for the unlawful granting of housing to the hostel in a lease with a change in their status. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights regarding the protection of the constitutional rights of the defendant Hennady Kosenko, holder of the investigative isolation No. 26 in the city of Chortkovi Ternopil district. JANUARY to the Head of the National Committee on Land Resources of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the misconduct of the project institute of Sevastopol in the production of technical documentation for the removal of land to members of the “Prisyvásje” cooperative of the Kirov district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Head of Government of the National Bank of Ukraine for inadequate control by the National Bank of Ukraine over banks in the conduct of foreign exchange transactions authorized and their agents in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, other regions of Ukraine and the fulfilment of the requirements of the National Bank of Ukraine instruction on the organization and conduct of monetary exchange operations in Ukraine. MICIVILLE AND VALERIA ASADZEVA to the Head of the Kiev City Council for the repair of road coverings on Nevska Street in Kiev. Mr. Tomenka to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the provision of information on the declaration by the President of Ukraine of a gift in the form of free treatment at the Max Grundig clinic in the Federal Republic of Germany. John BOKHO to the city’s Kiev head for the destruction of the sports grounds on Melnikov Street, 22 Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Jury SOLOMATANA to the President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in connection with the failure of officials of the Ukrainian Academy of Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” to provide timely and well-founded information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of some scientific proposals from Chernobyl issues that have been submitted to the authorities of the State to certain local scientists. John MIHOVIĆA to the Head of the All - Ukrainian Council of the Fishermen and Fishermen’s Association for a formal response to the parliamentary appeal for shortcomings in the activities of the Ukrainian Regional Council of the Ukrainian Hunters and Fishermen of the Zakarpat region. Vladimir PETREN to the director of the Institute of State and the rights of the name of the National Academy of Sciences of Korea regarding the analysis of the procedures for recalculation of pensions for years by former pilots of civil aviation. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in response to an unsatisfying response to a request for the establishment of a small State Herb — a trident on the top of an administrative building on the street of Grushewski, 5 instead of one of the symbols of a nonexistent State of the USSR. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of the discount prices for metalworks and the provision of industrial enterprises in the city of Chernigów. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on water issues in the village of Grand Alexander of the Hersonian Region. John STANDING to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the request for a purposeful destruction of the places associated with the life and creativity of Taras Shevchenk. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in association with the limited responsibility of the “Globine Sugar” of the city of Globin Poltava oblast. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood for the violation of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of reducing the network of state and municipal health institutions, the restructuring of the Odessa National Medical University to save itself from the destruction of Odessa City Clinic No. 12, ignoring the medical needs of Odessa City. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial support for the construction of clean-up facilities and the infection department of the Skadavian District Hospital in the Herson region. Mr. Ivan Mihovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to entrench land in the area and the non-formulation of state-owned property to the owners of pies in the villages of the Hudlov village council of the Uzhgrad district of Zakarpatsk. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting a subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects in 2004. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for the utility “Chercasielektrotrans” expenses from the budget for the free transport of benefits to citizens in Cherkasa. Michael POLENCHICHI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the discriminating distribution of funds to the districts. Peter DIMINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the implementation of article 57 of the Education Act on the payment of benefits for the benefit of years and material assistance in granting annual leave to educational workers in the city of Borislav. Petra TLOČKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on reducing the use of Russian in the electronic media of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the activities of the State Shareholder Company “Uklodavdavpoligraphy” [[THOMEN, SEAS, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing geological exploration in 2004 in the territory of the Lvivsko-Volinski Stonepool. Mr. KRUKA's Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the promotion of the increased volume of cargo processed by the Rhine Trade Port. Mr. Mikoli Karnauha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in funding of the State Treasury and its departments in 2004 - 2005. Dear colleagues, let us consult. According to the Rules, we have 30 minutes for Friday’s requests and announcements. I've used it for 30 minutes. I still have half the unannounced requests left. What are we doing? [[VOTES FROM THE ZALU]] Are we announcing it? No one insists that this is a violation of the Rules? [[VOICES FROM THE hall: No.]] Let's read on. Mr Oleg GUMENUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the underfunding of the education sector of Ternopolska and the accumulation of public debt to education. Ivan VASUNIKA and Yuri Shirka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the face of dissatisfaction with the response to the request for increased funding to the 2003 level for health care, health care and housing for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of measures to endanger Ukraine's national security and to create its negative image on the international scene as a result of the abuse by individuals of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine by their official status, undermining the authority of the State as a result of violations of the requirements of the law, avoiding the execution of the court decision and the improper execution of the contract for the production of the Ukrainian-British Association of the “Dinamo-Silaire” public registrations for transport means. Anatoly MATVIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the formal review of the request for repayment of the debt owed by the company “Restraint AES” of the State Enterprise of the National Energy Shares Company “Energoat” in front of a small company “Tamporine”. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the payment of rent for residential services to the parents of military personnel who died during the military service. Groups of National Deputies to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Bankruptcy, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for Automobile Enterprises, for failing to compensate for the passage of the passenger premium categories. [[BROAD, RED, ALEXIUM]] Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the Equalization of Payments for Electricity to Enterprises and Organizations financed by the State Budget. JOURIA PAULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine for failure to implement the ruling of the Kharkiv Region’s Master’s Court on evicting subjects from the premises of the Kharkiv State Institute of Art of Kotlarevski. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the exceedance of the authority of the Kyiv City Council in defining the boundaries of the State Conservation Economy, Feofania. Mr. Volodymira PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the constitutional rights of a citizen by local authorities and the courts in the region of Kyrovograd. JOURIA LUCENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations by officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health in solving the problem of providing cancer - related patients with antipulmonary devices. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in the completion of the retrial of a criminal case against a citizen of Trejak. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the application of measures to halt violations of existing legislation on organ transplantation and other anatomical materials by the chief physician of the Dnipropetrov Hospital in Pavlov. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation that took place at the State Enterprise Hotel Kozatsky of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to perform functions by officials of the procurator’s office of the Kyrovograd district in criminal matters concerning the citizen of Novak. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine in response to a request from 22 April 2004 for a violation of a criminal case against the head of the territorial election committee for the election of the Mukatov City Head under article 158 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of a residential building on the street of the Highlander in Kiev. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal taxation of housing taxes by members of housing-building cooperatives and the merger of joint owners of multi-entity houses with value added tax. [[BONDRENE, CERNOVIL, CARNAUH, AND OTHERS Total 5 deputies]] Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, for illegal activities, numerous abuses by the management of the private-rent agricultural enterprise “Premigation” of the village of Žegivuk of the Region of Kiev. [[TIMUSHENKO, KYRILCHUK, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Roman TKAKAČA and Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the office of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the distribution and granting of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects on capital investments with the aim of gaining the favor of voters on the electoral day of the President's 2004 elections. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of legislation in the criminal investigation into the murder of a citizen of Viktorov. Boris TARASJUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the evaluation of the activities of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil region in the investigation of a criminal case under the control of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Leonidas GRAČ to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the acquisition of land on the southern coast of Crimea. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian laws on the status of Ukrainian national MP and on information by the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine. Maria MARKUS to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the judicial protection of Ukrainian citizens affected by the crime. VICTOR OF THE DESCRIPTION TO THE U.S. Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster over the construction of a public education school at the expense of the Chernobyl Foundation in the village of Luka in the Žitomir district of the Žitomir region. Alexander GOLUBA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the reconstruction of the park-remembrance of garden and park art of the state-wide importance of “Feofania” in Kiev. Mr Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the violation of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom and Movement and Freedom of Residence in Ukraine, the authorities of internal affairs in the Zakarpatsk region. MIKOLI RUDKOVSKI to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture and Arts of Ukraine for the preservation of the historical monument — the museum of history of Chernigiv’s military aviation school of pilots. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the basis of the situation that resulted from the provision of HIV-infected antiretroviral therapy and the possibility of regular laboratory control of HIV-infected persons in Ukraine. Stanislav PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for free treatment of a child with cerebral palsy. MICHAYLA POLANCHIĆA to the Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Prevention of Environmental Disaster in a Village of Solotvin City. Leonida Vernigor to the Ministry of Culture and Arts of Ukraine regarding the provision of constitutional rights to rest and the use of cultural achievements in the villages of the Kharkov district. Stepan Cloud to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the initiation of the United States of America’s review of the position on the tragic death of 8 April 2003 in the Republic of Iraq of Ukrainian journalist Taras Proczek and the decision to pay compensation to the family of the deceased. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine regarding the violation of effective environmental legislation in the Skadavian Medical Zone. Mr Joseph WINSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Economy and European Integration of Ukraine on providing information on some economic indicators. Valentina Seminyuk to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the issuance of a copy of Presidential Decree No. 144 of February 3, 2004. John MIHOVIKA to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for assisting the Roma community in the search for documents of victims of the Hitleric Holocaust during World War II. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the head of the Ukrainian Department of State for the execution of sentences for medical treatment to defendant Hennadia Kosenka, holder of the investigative isolation No. 26 in the city of Chortkovi Ternopil district. VYACHESLALA KYRILENKA to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the reduction of the pension of a wartime participant, a veteran of work during the recalculation of the pension on January 1, 2004. Vladimir YAVORIYSKA to the head of the government of the Open Shareholders Association of the Skretelek regarding the restoration of the telephone link between the National Association of Ukrainian Writers on the street of Bankov 2, blocked by the illegal actions of officials of the Open Shareholders Association of the Skretelek, who have deliberately violated the norms of current legislation, thereby demonstrating contempt for the great crowd of Ukrainian literature creators and the authority of Ukraine in the international arena. Requests officially received under the Rules have been announced. But I have a whole body that is also asked to advertise. That's why I'm going to announce them. But those names that are spoken will have no right today to make the chairman’s remark that he is in violation of the Rules. Because he's violating the Rules now on demand. Do you have a deal? The request by George MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the information programmes of the general educational institutions for the computerization of rural schools in the Kitzmen constituency number 203 of the Cherniew region. THE Prime Minister of Ukraine’s gravity for ensuring the proper organization of weapons storage, ammunition in warehouses in the Lviv region, including in the city of Broda. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Kiev City Head on the implementation of the 2004 Kiev Higher Education Institute Support Programme forecast for its implementation in 2004 and the presentation of documents that regulate the selection and validation of scientific work for the implementation of the programme. Ms. Aleksandra MASSENKA, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the unsatisfying actions of the Internal Affairs Department and the Prosecutor’s Office of the Choral Region of Poltavian Region regarding the crime of theft of property in the citizens of Musienko. National MP MIRONENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the activities of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine. Attorney General of the National Deputy ANISIMOVA for violations of the current legislation in the course of the transfer to the municipal property of the residence of the open stock companies Dniprovi metallurgical combination of the name Obržinsky and Dniprovagonmash, the city of Dniprožinsk. Mr. Vladimir JENKA, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the late replacement of a disabled car for the first group of the Great Homeland War of Makeyev, resident of the city of Złotonos Cherkas region. Alexander KOMENYA, Minister for Emergency Situations and People’s Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, says that it is necessary to conduct a comprehensive survey of the building, to establish the real causes of its destruction, and to take precautions against the prejudices of human victims. National MP MICOL’S MELNIK, U.S. Health Minister, found out why there was no response to the request, which was announced on April 9, 2004. MIKOLI MELNIKA, Minister of Health, for the conduct of the operation of a citizen of Paceku from a heart valve transplant at the expense of the state budget. Next, there are two more questions. I remind you that only two questions can be asked. MIKOLI MELNIKA, U.K.A.’S Minister of Health, for the operation. the funds provided by the State budget and the reasons for the unsatisfying response to the request. The same Mikoli MELNIKA head of VAT "The State Saving Bank of Ukraine" on the discovery in the village of Wilshanka Krishopil district of the Vynnicka region of the VAT branch of the "State Saving Bank of Ukraine". In fact, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Vladimir YAWORl, on formal letters of resignation to the Ministry of Justice, who was consciously inactive, contributed to the decision-making of several literary forgers and the involvement of dozens of executive officials in illegal activities, which resulted in the blocking of bank accounts, postal correspondence, and the disconnection of telephone communication in the National Union of Ukrainian Writers. Jury KARMAZINA, I cannot help but announce, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of state-owned property in a particularly large way, on the abuse of office, on the exaggeration of official authority, on the falsification, counterfeiting and use of forged documents by the head of the local court of the Yavorów district of Gutzala, on employees of a separate battalion of road traffic services in the Yavorów district of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region, on the violation of a criminal case, on the involvement of those responsible. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the increase in petrol and diesel fuel, which can lead to higher prices for essential food products. The wish of all those who wish to advertise has been announced. Now, dear colleagues, once again, are we going to break the Rules for another 30 minutes to take to the speeches of those national MPs who have signed up. Shall we go? This is the fourth time you've allowed me to break the Rules today. No, no, no, Ivan Alexanderovich. Yes, please show the list again. 30 minutes. Please, Alexeyev. Prepare Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u2	Please give my word to my colleague Catherine Semenovna Samojlik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u3	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u4	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear voters, our people are preparing to celebrate the Jubilee of Victory in the Great Homeland War. There is no family where there is still no pain, no loss of family, no loss of family, no loss of life for their homeland, no loss of life for their land, no ruin of cities and villages, no loss of children and women. Today, the new world’s masters have begun a war against the disobedient. Our Ukrainian boys, led to despair by the regime, are forced to sell their unique young lives to support their families. Dear mothers whose children have been sent to participate in the shameful and dirty war in Iraq, let us remember that this is to make the factions of most of your sons who have supported the bankrupt Kuchma regime at the cost of their lives! For the sale of your sons, half the faction of ours voted, zealously serving the United States! The hope that America will choose a president from their ranks for us. For the sake of revenge and authority, they have become ugly puppets, ministers of modern fascism. Mothers who died in Iraq, your children went to make money for a wedding, an apartment, and found death there. Ask the women MPs why they think only their children have the right to a life worth living. The whole world is shocked by the way democracy guards act, human rights advocates. [[in quotes]] The shooting of a wedding that killed about 50 Iraqis, including 15 children, abuse, rape, bombing of residential neighborhoods -- that's the price of their democracy. This is where the servants sent our sons. Where did the honor and conscience of the defence minister, who assured us that he knew where the weapons of mass destruction were, defiantly lied that our armies would be in Kuwait alone?Oh, my God! How would you, Mr. Marchuk, look into the eyes of the mother who lost her son? The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine demands the immediate withdrawal of our military personnel from Iraq, to protect those working in Iraq who are under arrest. For the lie, for the lost young lives, for the tears of mothers, for the fatherhood of the secretary of defense must immediately resign. Supporting the initiative of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka, the Communist Party of Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Union of Women Workers "For the Future of the Children of Ukraine" urges Ukrainian citizens, especially mothers, to carry out the action "Return our children from Iraq!".. We will not allow ourselves to live peacefully for those who have sent our children to a bloody slaughter! Let's protect our children! Protect Ukraine from possible terrorist acts!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Manchulenka. Prepare for the School Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u6	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Forced under party pressure to pass the word to John the Rabbit, the first deputy leader of the Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u7	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! According to the Ukrainian People’s Party, the main event of the week that is going on is, of course, an increase in prices per third per petrol. Such a sharp and substantial increase in gas prices will have a devastating impact on Ukraine’s economy and will significantly reduce citizens’ income. What were the reasons for the increase in gas prices? First of all, this is the direct result of Ukraine’s accession to the EP, which has finally destroyed Ukraine’s protective economy. Therefore, the responsibility for price increases lies entirely with the creators of a single economic space: President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine, government led by Viktor Yanukovic, Communist faction and parliamentary majority. The increase in gas prices is the EP in action. Once again, Ukrainian citizens have found the lie of the government, which has repeatedly claimed, inter alia, by the mouth of First Deputy Prime Minister Mikli Azarov, that after Ukraine's entry into the European Union petrol prices will fall, and now the media controlled by the regime are lying, saying that this is the result of an increase in prices in the European Union. The Ukrainian National Party has repeatedly claimed to be harmful to the creation of the EP at the hands of Ukraine and warned citizens that the main purpose of creating the EP is to continue the robbery of the Ukrainian people by the Ukrainian mafia, but with Russian. The other one. The Russian factor also worked in the gas price rise. Russia’s economy is not in the best condition today, despite the baroque statements of the Russian authorities. To save her, she needs to invest considerable financial resources, and the main source of such resources for Russia is oil dollars. That's why the Russian authorities took immediate advantage of their Lukoil enterprises, TNCs, of the thoughtless disclosure of the Ukrainian economy as a result of the creation of the EP. Moreover, the level of economic growth in Russia is much smaller than in Ukraine. Because of the rise in gas prices, Russia is significantly weakening Ukraine's economy, the competitiveness of Ukrainian production, particularly in our own market. Because of the rise in prices, Russia is creating excellent conditions for the entry of Russian products into the Ukrainian market. Third. An increase in gas prices is a mechanism by which the ruling regime is to steal 10 billion dollars hidden by the government of Yanukovich. By delaying pensions, scholarships, wages, social benefits, the government has long sought out a fraud mechanism. Now you can raise it to about a dozen pensions or wages or scholarships, anyway, they're going to be picked up by the price increase that's now going to take place across the economy. Four. An increase in gas prices was evidenced by the government’s apathy with Viktor Yanukovic. How could the government allow such an increase in prices and even one moment? All of this says that the government doesn't own the situation and doesn't run the economy. And Ukrainian citizens have once again found themselves to be harmful to the EP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u8	Please, instead of the School Cloud. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u9	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I'd like to ask you two questions. And I hope that these three minutes are fully used. First of all, I would like to say that today, for some reason, I do not know why, there was a daily report by the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the issue of establishing the facts of foreign interference in financing companies in Ukraine through nongovernmental organizations and foundations. Look, the commission investigating George Gongadze's death prepared a report a year ago. For a year the Supreme Council has not been able to give the floor to the head of the commission. Today is Georgia Gongadze's birthday. And today, it would be absolutely appropriate to give the floor to the head of this committee, Omelchenka. Yes, there is a decree that is extended by the ears to the session room. Why? Because the commission wasn't on its own. Four men came in, they were representatives of our Ukraine, and they can confirm that they listened, they laughed on the report, where it was written, that all virtually the deputies from the opposition are CIA agents, or at least they want to become, that all the international non-governmental foundations operating in Ukraine are only doing what they're doing to raise funds and bribe someone there. So I emphasize that we have no right to consider the report of this committee right now. First of all, there was no committee meeting. Secondly, no one delegated the authority of the commission's head to make a report. If that's not true, I want to see the minutes of this committee's meeting, where there would be signatures and regulations, where and how this matter was voted on at the committee meeting. Next. And by the way, one nuance that touches the Supreme Council directly. Elections in Odessa are coming up. And how do you know that there is a family tandem in Odessa: Father Kiwalov is moving his daughter Kiwalov through the Odessa constituency. Well, you know, I just like the tandem. The father leads the Central Election Commission, and, of course, the daughter, by the will of the citizens, will, of course, accidentally take over her authority and win in the Odessa constituency. And no one doubts that the elections will be fair, that there will be no pressure on the Central Electoral Commission, that everything will be very legal. But I have some suspicions, particularly about the violation of the Central Electoral Commission Act, which clearly states, by the way, we did not vote, rather than in a single amendment, it was the first reading, which clearly states that a candidate for a national MP could not be a close relative of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Well, where's the next of kin, if it's a daughter? And I can't understand at all how such an important community, like Odessa, perceives such a spit in the face of democracy, let's say, in the capital of southern democracy in Ukraine. How can we react in an uneasy way in the Supreme Council? How can we normally react to the fact that this is the head of the Central Electoral Commission introducing a family arrangement? These are good family arrangements in factories, but not in the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u10	The word has the national deputy Puzakov, to prepare for Sas Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, this is where the "ours" accused the communists of fuelling the gas. That's not where you're looking for friends. The fault lies with the systems of this system of authority that you have created. Today our peacekeepers are unsolicited guests, the invaders' manuals and their backing power, the ordinary ones who have come to the foreign land of Iraq to establish a new world order. What kind of peacekeeping operation is this? This is a black page in the history of the new state of every peacemaker. After all, daily stress - related situations in extreme conditions cause a heart attack, stroke, and a complete mental disorder. In short, a young person becomes disabled. An example is Yugoslavia, Iraq. Why is Ukraine at a foreign war? Although the authorities say our military is involved in a peacekeeping operation. Bush even sent a letter to the President of Ukraine expressing his gratitude for the active participation of Ukrainian peacekeepers in the overthrow of the Hussein regime. It's probably to remind Al-Qaeda where there's still to be a terrorist attack. What peacemaking is when there is a war in Iraq and people die. Would you like to ask the authorities what you are looking for in the Middle East? What did you forget? And why did our people become under the banners of the invaders, and for what do they perish? After all, Iraq did not invite Ukraine to defend their sovereignty. They were actually invited by the United States. Clearly, as God’s day, Ukrainians there defend the image of the anti-national regime and in world democracy. Although the Presidential environment is constantly trying to numb the Ukrainians to the possibility that participation in the Ukrainian adventure will enable Ukraine to participate in the reconstruction of Iraq and the sharing of its main oil wealth. But is it worth the price of human life, of all other people’s wealth, and is it fitting for us to be among the marauders who share the good of others? Will the Americans share what they came to this land for? Shameful for such a state and its leadership. And unfortunately, most of the people in this room have decided to send our boys to Iraq. And from the "Our Ukraine" bloc, which pretends to be national saviors, 39 deputies voted, including Yushchenko himself. So, Mr. Yushchenko, Mr. President and Mrs. from the so - called majority, know that stealing a good reputation for Ukraine will not gain or gain authority at other people’s meals. And we Communists demanded and demand that the Ukrainian troops be removed from Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u12	Please, Yavorowski has the floor. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u13	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Javorovsky, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear voters, the people who chose us, the truth is that the people used are already electorate. I think of you as a people even after these elections. I'm not going to go down for a discussion with my previous speaker, it's just uninteresting and unsuspecting. I'm talking about something I am increasingly convinced, I am aware that perhaps every Ukrainian living on this earth is convinced that in this country today, the present state we have is virtually impossible to live! It's impossible and scary! It is not possible for 90 common people to live in this country. It's good to live and maybe live 10 percent is our oligarchs and our kushmow family from Kiev to the district center. In the face of your agony, today authorities make such terrible, fatal mistakes that you often fail to understand the world you live in and whether this world is real or not. Draw one line of what happened in Mukachevo: One picks and the other seizes power. Get the newspaper The Village News. I'm absolutely sure he's sitting there, John, and I believe that the city court will leave the decision to that court. In fact, we don't have courts today, we have auctions in the judiciary. I want to remind you once again of the National Writer Association. People are good! Medvedchuk, who began the defeat of Ukrainian intelligence from Vasil Stus, when he was his false defender, today, in fact, he is getting bullied by Paul Zagreb, Anatoly Dimarov, John Juba -- all the classics of today's Ukrainian literature, transforming the Spyk into his own ideological department of his party. It won't work! It won't work! I said again: “Yesterday we met foreign diplomats, and before that we held a conference at the convention level. I say again, we stand! Look what they're doing to Julia Timoshenko. I'm looking at this base goose, and I want you to forgive me for the point where they run, like the punishment they've been caught with. How much shame can we have in front of the world? Isn't it clear you don't have anything on Julia Timoshenko?Oh, my God! How much can you torture this woman?Oh, my God! I'm done. We didn't last long. I realize they're falling for themselves today, and I realize that a lot of people have scars from what Saakashvili is doing in Georgia. You will give this money to the people and give this authority to the people because you have seized it unjustly and unjustly. I believe in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u14	The word is given by the Turkish national deputy. Get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I spoke last week from this rostrum and told them that the U.S. Court had dropped all charges against Yulia Timoshenko. By the way, the appeal firm fully confirmed that all charges against the Henprosecutors were falsified and foolish. Three days went by, as new repressions began, new provocations. I'm saying, dear colleagues, that the fascists only sent innocent people to concentration camps because of their nationality. The Ukrainian authorities are only deliberately killing innocent people in prisons because of their political propensity for opposition. The most prominent of these ferocious phenomena was the arrest of former colleague Timothy Antonina Baluri. A sick, infirm person who had a serious illness could not even move on his own, out of the hospital, out of the hospital’s emergency room, the omonians took him out and took him to prison. Your Honorable colleagues, the courts, the Ukrainian courts on behalf of the President's Administration are turning into a real torture ground for innocent people when Ukrainian courts make stupid decisions about elections in Mukacheva, when the judges can't count how many terms President Kuchma has served, do they not really remind you of the "crust" plague? Fascism is coming. An unprecedented campaign to plunge Ukraine into an atmosphere of fear, lies and provocation has been launched today under the direct leadership of the President’s Administration and the silent approval of the higher leadership of the state. The authorities feel that they are on the verge of death, and they are ready to destroy our entire nation for their own salvation. I'm addressing you people's deputies, and it's up to us to stop these people, and we don't have to give you the dictatorship of criminality forever. I'm hoping for your civil position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u16	The word has a national MP, Melnik, to prepare for the Frost of Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u17	I'd like to give it to Ivan Fedorovich Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u18	Please, John Boki, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u19	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party. Respectable compatriots! As you know, on the deliberate issue of combating anti-Semitism and fuelling inter-national hostility, the Kuchma regime and international Zionism officials decided to close the most widely circulated and one of the oldest Ukrainian newspapers in the country. Closest English edition. In a foreign - language press sea, that means closing Ukraine. The trial of the newspaper is the trial of the Ukrainian people, his desire to break free from the thieving regime that has driven him into a pit of systemic crisis, the insolent beating of his rights, the trial of the honor and dignity of the indigenous nation on its home land. On 25 May of this year, the Kyiv Court of Appeal, Tuesday, is considering an appeal by the "Silski estuary" against the illegal decision of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev to close the newspaper. It is not just a newspaper that exists for 84 years that Hitler, HCHR, and Kuchma have been unfaithfully closing down their time, deciding the fate of the Ukrainian word, deciding your fate, your fate, every Ukrainian citizen, the fate of the people you belong to, the fate of Ukraine forever. On this day, May 25, at 8 p.m., 30 minutes at Mikhail's forgiveness, near the monument of Princess Olzi, the Ukrainian opposition gathers at a protest rally all those who are on the road to the fate of the Village Messages, the fate of the unrooted Ukraine, all those who value international peace in it, and who understands that the Kuchma regime, together with the rabbis and lilies, has chosen to strike death in Ukraine with freedom of speech, your honour and dignity, your future, your children and your grandchildren. As you know, the idea of closing and broadcasting the sessions of the Supreme Council is on the move. Some arguments against this are already being arranged. to support this decision of the Bank. I think closing the village news and closing the broadcast of the Supreme Council are the chains of one chain. So we urge you not to be indifferent. Come Tuesday, May 25, under the walls of the Kyiv Court of Appeal! Come protect the people's newspaper, protect yourself and Ukraine! I repeat, the rally starts at 8:00 in the morning on Tuesday, May 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u20	Please, Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction. Instead of Grzev getting ready for Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u21	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Everyone knows that in the village of Novogoddanovka, Zaporez Region, there was a tragedy in connection with the fire at the warehouse. So, literally today, the citizens of the village of Maryanyovka in the district of Zaporozhye district have asked me to announce from this rostrum the decision of the citizens of the village of Maryanyvka in the district of Zaporozhye, who were affected by the explosions that took place in the village of Novogoddanovka. They are asking us to help those in the village who are in a difficult situation. On May 6, 2004, there was a fire in a warehouse near the village of Novogoddanovka, in the district of Zaporozhye, where our village was affected. To avoid casualties, on May 7, residents of the village were evacuated by emergency headquarters. It was allowed to return home on May 9 in the morning. You don't have to describe all the horror that shells were breaking in the area of the neighborhood, blowing out windows from shock waves, breaking the slate, all surrounded by smoke from the fire. Two towers of water were damaged, and cracks appeared in buildings and buildings, schools, and people were forced to leave their homes, leaving their possessions and farm animals for years. The inhabitants of the village of Maryanyvka demand compensation for material and moral damage, namely, the restoration of two towers of water supply, the repair of all damaged buildings and buildings, the gasification of the village of Maryanivka, and the repair of roads at a residential location. We hope in support of the entire MP Corps, we don't think it's that big a salary for the horrors of peacetime. May our elderly people live in normal human conditions in the last few years without being stuttered in their homes. Let our children feel the concern of the state, and the voters will be convinced that they have chosen worthy people to protect the interests of the common people. This address is to be sent to the President of Ukraine, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We hope you will not refuse our request." Therefore, I ask, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, to consider this appeal as a parliamentary request to the above - mentioned persons. I also ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to immediately, literally, vote today on the draft Resolution on the Elimination of the Consequences of the Situation in the Village of Novogoddanovka Mikhail district, Melitopol district, Zaporez area number 5492-.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u22	Please make the decision in an appropriate manner. The word is given by the national deputy Semenyuk. Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u23	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Even today’s breakup shows that we are wanted in this room as well. There are different structures, different organizations working properly to argue that we are not in this room consolidated and that we do not make decisions about the honor of Parliament. But today I want to turn from this rostrum to our electorate. All over the region. Something to do with the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u24	You were the one who got excited and responded to the microphone. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u25	Thank you. Then I ask you to leave my time. Dear voters! Today, there are volunteers in all parts of Ukraine who say that the President should be chosen by a rich man. So let's continue to choose the rich one, he'll do us all the good. What does that say? The fact that we are still being divided materially into the poor and the rich. Sadly, only ninety percent of the poor and ten percent of the rich. Today, I can say that as they stole thirteen years, they steal further. Believe me, the appetites will not diminish and they will steal further. The other one. We are divided religiously, and this is what we feel in the disputes of various religious denominations. We're divided nationally. And that's what we felt over that courtroom that's being built around the Village News today. They want to challenge the various religious denominations. We have representatives of various political denominations in the Socialist Party, including Jews. And when they want to challenge us, we want to say that the newspaper "Silly News" has taken action against the oligarchs, the representatives of this nation, who are smothering Ukraine, who are destroying it. They sang to the body of Ukraine and sucked the last juices out of its economy. From what makes the Ukrainians and the Russians lower and poorer, so do the Jews. Today, we should not be divided into different nations and nationalities. I address representatives of various nations and nationalities, all concerned Ukrainians. On May 25, at 8:30 a.m., we gather at the site near the monument of Princess Olga, the wise one of the princes, and say no to the moods of the Medvedchuk and Rabinovich today to destroy the flagman of Ukrainian truth, the newspaper The Village News. Come out with us and support us, and we will protect that national mirror of our democracy, that newspaper that brings the truth to every corner of Ukraine, to the very remote village, city and faraway regions not only in Ukraine, but also abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u26	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Gladys, the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Not long ago, on February of this year, the Government’s Day heard an extremely important question about the state of public policy in the area of child health and recreation, especially in rural areas. A thorough analysis of the situation was made by the minister of the family and the young, Long, Valentina Ivanovna. A critical assessment of the results of the 2003 recovery period gave each MP the hope of an even higher level of schooling in 2004. Yet, according to national wisdom, it was not what was supposed to happen. Unfortunately, health and health care for children, workers of the agro-industrial complex this year remain even more problematic. If some one million rural children were not cured during the previous summer years, there may be even more this year. First, there is an active process of retraining many inter-economic children's hospitals, built in Soviet times or completely closed or destroyed. As a result, the network of health - care facilities is considerably reduced, making it impossible for rural children to have access to organized recreation. After all, it was in these establishments that children from low-income rural families, whose parents worked in agriculture, still have the lowest wage in comparison with those in other sectors of the economy. Secondly, despite the agreement, there has been no corresponding change to the 2004 State Budget, which would provide for at least a minimum amount of funding for the rehabilitation of rural children at the farm. By the way, this is where 80,000 rural children were cured last year. In addition, the cost of having children in these institutions is the lowest. So at a lower cost, there's a much higher number of people that can be cured. We have repeatedly raised questions before the government about financing these institutions, at least at the level of last year. But, as they say, the cart is there now. And thirdly, faction members are also concerned about the health problems of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster or living in polluted areas. In his speech on Government Day, a national MP, a member of the Agrarian Party, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, stressed this. Unfortunately, the sanatorium treatment and rest programme for the Chernobyl disaster is financed at two percent of the need. That is why the recovery of children affected by tenders recently conducted by the Ministry of Emergency Situations has been considerably reduced. You can't agree with that. Please consider this statement to be a parliamentary request. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u28	Please make sure that you are properly formed. The time for the national MPs to speak is over. Let's move on to the daily routine. Information from the interim commission of inquiry on the establishment of foreign intervention in the financing of electoral campaigns in Ukraine is being heard through non-governmental organizations that exist on foreign land. Reported to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Valery Dmitrovitch Mishur. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that such regulations be established. 15 minutes -- report, 15 minutes -- answers to questions. And we're going to have 15 minutes to discuss this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u29	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u30	Wait. Wait. Turn off the microphone on the stand. Sign up, three minutes out of the procedure. Write down three minutes out of the procedure. Valery Dmitrovitch, there's a microphone down there, don't sweat it. They're gonna turn it on. Yes, please, three minutes. Incorruptible, followed by Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u32	Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u33	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to know when the commission made the decision and who authorized Mr. Mishur to speak? That's the first one. Secondly, I think that if our communists are so honest, in their paws, they have to listen to all of this. For example, I feel that we should not take this question off the record, but we all need to listen, Adam Ivanovich, not for 15 minutes. I know you have an order from Medvedchuk's Bank, but let's listen to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u34	Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u35	So I suggest that everyone who's signed up has.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u36	Turn off the microphone. Once again, my dear colleagues, the Head has the right to explain, explain, if there is any misinformation. I have the right to interrupt. You read the Rules, I'll show you the Rules. You're the one that's bothering me. I'm making a note because you're obstructing work. That's the first one. The other one. This is your National Deputy Assadchev's imagination. I understand you're afraid of this report, but it will. Please, Bronnikov, follow him, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u37	Bronnikov. Please pass the word to the MP, Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u39	Hell, the "Regions" faction. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u40	Speak up, I can hear you. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u41	I have a question for you: how do you think we can explain this rejection of the issue and why our colleagues with our Ukraine are so abruptly opposed to this issue? I support Deputy Assadchev that this issue should be considered, because if there is no question - and there is no problem. And there's a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u42	Yes, please, Bondarchuk. Follow him, Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u43	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, well, you know, we've been blocking the work of the Supreme Council for two days to get our troops out of Iraq. And what we are considering today is the intervention of foreign States, services in our internal affairs, these issues are of course related. For that reason alone, we are allowing this issue to be addressed today. I understand this, Adam Ivanovich, that the next question will be again about the intervention of the United States of America in the policies of the Bank today, in the work of our public some organizations, which ultimately make Ukraine a Marionic State, and “most” and many of “Our Ukraine” support such policies. Therefore, I would like to ask the next question of substantiating the question of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u44	Please, Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u45	Please give the floor to Deputy Kozachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u46	Cosaczenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u47	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! I am a member of this commission of inquiry, and the chairman of this committee, who is on the rostrum, can confirm that I have been to all the meetings of this committee. And I want to say nothing. We're on our way. I'm getting out of the way, and I'm saying the main thing is that we're in violation of the Rules now, because the agenda is on the report, the report to the committee. In fact, the commission didn't vote for any decision. And therefore, I believe that if a distinguished colleague of Mishur is to speak, he should act as simply an MP with his report, not stand in the agenda as a report to the commission or as a report to the commission's chairman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Valery Dmitrovitch, give us the information, then we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u49	So we're doing information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u50	I mean, answer those questions as to who you're reporting from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u51	Indeed, the Temporary Special Commission was established on December 11, 2003. The chairman of the commission prepared the Commission’s Rules of Procedure, and the head of the committee invited each member of the committee to a meeting in writing. Sadly, no quorum sessions have taken place during this time. Because it's part of it. Wait a minute! Let me answer that! Some members of the commission openly blocked the work of the commission. That's the first one. Secondly, another part of the commission decided simply not to participate in the commission's work. So the other part of the board was just the wedding generals on this committee. But in this time -- I can give you examples of both Mr. Kozachenko and Mr. Turkinov -- they've been checking the work of the organizations we've been talking about. I have all these documents. And none of them will mind. During this time, as chairman of the commission, I made many inquiries to the Cabinet of Ministers, to various ministries, departments, departments, by the way, and to "Our Ukraine," which did not give me an answer. And on the basis of these materials that the head of the commission has gathered, because I feel responsible to the Supreme Council, I want this report to be heard today. I'll tell you about it. And I'd like to say that the composition of this committee is fundamentally updated. And the materials presented to you today in the report are a version supported by several national deputies from the committee. Indeed, I will be speaking today, above all as chairman of the commission. The fact that the committee did not meet at its meetings does not mean anything. The commission worked. And I have a huge folder of materials that we've been studying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a question to consider, if it is not dealt with by a reduced procedure, the Rules take 45 minutes. I remind you once again: 15 minutes will inform the chairman of the commission, 15 minutes will answer the question, and 15 minutes will be left to discuss the matter. Those who sign up and arrive in these 15 minutes will take part in the discussion. Assadchev. It will be what the Rules require, not what you want. So please report. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u53	A temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of foreign intervention in the financing of electoral campaigns in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u54	Valery Dmitrovitch, please wait. On demand of two factions, I declare. It's a faction of our Ukraine, and BUIT is asked to announce a recess. A break of up to 11 am 59 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u55	We're continuing the meeting. Who will speak from factions? Wait, Valery Dmitrovich. From the factions that took the break, please, the Turks. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! When this issue was voted in the Supreme Council, our faction in the Yulia Block of Timoshenko supported this question, because we really have nothing to hide, as I hope there is nothing to hide from other factions. What's more, we're really interested in finding out if there's any such trend in Ukraine, other than the Russian Federation, maybe some other countries are funding, let's say, the political activities of those or other political parties. And certainly we have delegated our representative, particularly me to this commission. And that's why I'm speaking not only from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine that announced the break, but also as members of this commission. I support the information provided by Mr. Mishur, which, in fact, has never been qualified for a board meeting. More than that, there was no report on the committee’s meetings, and no one on the committee had delegated Mr. Mishuri’s opportunity to report on behalf of the commission today. Next, dear colleagues. What's so interesting? And I'm stressing this, unfortunately, not so many people's deputies in the hall, probably the topic is that it won't be interesting, and I'm stressing that no violations have been brought to the attention of the members of the committee. And at the same time today, the Supreme Council has a draft regulation, and I'm reading its title, "On the previous report on the work of the Temporary Commission." So Mr. Mishur reports that the commission has not actually met once, at the same time, the question is, "Who approved this previous report?".. If this was Mr. Mishur's previous report, no one would deny it. Next, dear colleagues. What about the contents of this report? It's actually a dungeon that's worked either in the President's Office or in other institutions. But the dungeons have to be declared on channels like "1+1", "Intern," that's normal for them, inherently. As far as Mr. Mishur's particular position is concerned. We've got "Variance," dear colleagues. Comrade Mishuri, thank you. We have "Variable," and any national MP who has his own stand, his opinion on any question, can speak in the "Variable" or at the commission of a faction at the time it's scheduled. What's more, I'm addressing Mr. Martinyuk's Chief of Staff. You don't have to make a dangerous precedent. And we're not interested in this information, we don't want to create a precedent when, under an agreement with a representative of a political faction who holds a meeting, a report can be made on behalf of a commission when the commission is not working. It's an unprecedented case, your honor, and you know it. And you don't have to create such precedents. Tomorrow, after you've settled with the Chief, anyone will make a report. Which is, first of all, a liar.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, don't get excited. It's not that easy to make a deal with me, Alexander Valentinovich, as you think. Yes, please, Mishur, 15 minutes. 15 for the answer and 15 for the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u58	I want to make it clear once again that the commission was working, but she really didn't approve the report. According to the Ministry of Justice, 399 international organizations have been registered in Ukraine on January 1, 2004, 421 international charities, 179 non-governmental public organizations abroad. The network of nonstate organizations in Ukraine is being developed primarily through foreign funding. [[I will continue to speak to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.]] During the years of independence, Ukraine became an active Institute of Foreign Donors of the NDO. Budgets of 90 percent of NPOs range from $50,000 to $300,000. But 1 out of every 10 of them has $500,000 or more. The largest number of grants to the Ukrainian NDO were provided by the International Rebirth Fund, the National Foundation for Democracy, the World Bank. They are also the number of five who have given and the largest in terms of the size of the grand. The United States is the leader of the United States of America for both its size and its size. The NDO's activity is open to increasing the impact on the political process, social consciousness, and public opinion. Such objectives have been stated in almost all statutory instruments. If the impact on social consciousness and the political process is not considered an intervention, I think there is a big question. The important thing is that the authorities allow such influences. The most common methods of influence in NDO activities are public action. For example, in Kiev, where more than 30 NDOs work, such measures take place each week. Often not identifying, NDOs are constantly present in the national information space: on UT-1 it's the 'Obsolute' program, the 'Observation World' program, the 'Era' analysis programs, the 'Time' and 'Pip' programmes on 5 channels and others. The NDO material is published on the Internet: "Ukrainian Truth", "Forum", "Expert Center", "Coorrespondent.No", "Version", "Glavred". In total, more than a third of the NDOs enter the information space of Ukraine every week. 15 percent show high information activity up to 20 times a month. 90 percent of NDOs have information, 70 percent publish books and brochures. We need to add such effective means of rapid and direct information to a wide range of journalists, such as press conferences, their involvement in public action and well-paid projects, the placement of materials for regional and local media, in information agencies. The biggest activity in the information and analysis space in Ukraine is the US and German capital, which comes through NDOs such as Rebirth Foundations, Democracy Supports, Konrad Adenauer, Freedom House, and NATO diplomatic missions. It's all in the National Security and Defence magazine number 10, so these are public materials. You got funding schemes for different NDOs in materials. Thus, foreign sponsoring structures in Ukraine have a sufficiently complex and efficient analytic information and propaganda mechanism that can serve and serve to legally advance to the ideological field of Ukraine those and other ideas, to shape a certain social position and public opinion to one or more political forces, to problems of internal and external politics. The Ukrainian legislative field today practically allows, in the form of all kinds of political services, sociological research for the customer, pay advice, seminars, and training, to provide insidious foreign financial assistance to certain political structures and their employees. Quite frankly, the head of the Ukrainian Electoral Committee, Igor Popov, spoke about all the NDO activities in Ukraine. I quote. "Social aid programmes actually have a strategic goal of transforming society into Western standards." So this is about exports to Ukraine of a social model. The analysis shows that the largest grant support is given to structures that call themselves legal opposition. I'm not going to give examples, they are. But I can only name three names, let's say the directors of the institutes that are part of "Our Ukraine." That's what Boris Tarasyuk, Mr. Klukkowski and others will say. [[Institute of Euro-Atlantic Cooperation]] [[The Electoral Law Institute]] For example, Tomenko, who heads the Institute of Politics. In the past, Mr. Zvaric also led, say, both Mr. Stretovich and so on. As evidenced by the Situation Modeling Agency, Demoversion 4 is Kiev 2004, pages 10-15. I quote again. "Tender grant receipts. In most cases, they get structures that work quite closely with the opposition. Structures such as the foundation of open society, social design agencies, and so forth do a certain amount of work to provide analytically for the activities of individual politicians and political groups. And they give an example. I quote: "Yes, we should mention the activities of the independent press and public council union at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, headed by Mikola Tomenk, and support these initiatives by the international fund "Rebirth" the social design agency is working quite actively to update the problem of the creation of a single party under Yashchenka, etc." End of quote. The Commission has no record of the NDO’s gathering of information of a confidential nature and of information constituting a public secret. This was one of the versions that was expressed when the commission was approved. The U.S.S.A. responds that they do not collect such materials. Instead, NDOs absorb intellectuals and turn them into well-paid agents of influence -- propagandists and apologists of Western democracy. The NDO’s foreign managers are completely political politicians who are engaged in a new type of politics, suspiciously reminding them of the recruitment of the recent past. That's how it says in the magazine." "American researcher Heather Hoddin: "Fundamental funds, institutes, brain centers and non-governmental organizations created by Soros, leased, -- I quote -- on mutually beneficial terms by the U.S. Special Forces. This was the basic model developed in 1983 by his associate Vanstein. " I quote, "Thanks to our mutual understanding today, we are openly engaged in the same thing that 25 years ago had to do in secret with the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States." Even a superficial analysis suggests that the activities of NDOs, which are financed from abroad, allow for so-called legal intelligence from open sources. For example, NDOs study factors that affect the development of the political situation, the influence on the efficiency of the electoral process, the relationship of power and opposition, the challenges faced by opposition, the number and influence of parties in the regions, the relationship between parties. It's a public organization, excuse me? I'm just going to give you some examples of a position from a document called "New Choice 2004 Public Coalition Strategy." They kindly presented such material to me. During the 2004 presidential election, I quote: "The coalition should actually become a self-proclaimed but full representative of society in the elections. [[It's about this public coalition.]] The coalition can be joined by Ukrainian NDOs, including Ukrainian NGOs not registered in Ukraine. The coalition envisions political decisions, political statements." Excuse me, what is this political organization? One of the points is to work against the hiding of candidates and their headquarters unsolicited for disclosure, i.e. to seek compromise, black pianist, and so forth. "Comprehensive thematic research among vulnerable population groups that are primarily subject to administrative resources." Please refer to the following point: "Comparative aspect of the behaviour of candidates in different parts of the country, the detection of the nuances of the conduct of local authorities, the analysis of election programmes to combine the analysis of previous political activities of candidates for the presidency, the identification of the political behaviour of candidates in the most acute to the development of democracy of moments, their motivation to vote in Parliament on the most important issues of social life, the circle of associates and so forth." What's that? Or create a system channel for receiving information from all regions of Ukraine for further dissemination in Ukraine abroad. Or something like this, in the section "Current issues of voter education," is the first item: "It's worth limiting the use of materials called to direct voters to remote and rural areas. I think there's enough quotes that testify to the true goals and intentions of the New Elections 2004 coalition. At the same time, such studies provide appropriate methodological recommendations for conferences, seminars, and trainings. In general, only the opponents of the national democratic direction are represented at such actions. There is, indeed, an exception. I can say that the institution that heads, let's say, Mr. Klukkowski, has recently started conducting seminars from electoral legislation, where communists are invited. Let me give you some examples. Mikolayev, May 2003, the National Democratic Institute of the United States conducted a training seminar for the party's local asset, which is part of the "Ukrainian" Block. The politician of the National Democratic Institute of Citizens of Latvia, Alex Grigorievs, issues prescriptions to counteract political reform." This is the South Truth newspaper, 24.06.30. By the way, we used newspaper publications that were undisputed. Robert Fielding, a member of the U.S. GDP International Trade Solidarity Centre, conducted 30 seminars in areas where political situation was monitored in Ukraine, as well as training members of trade unions from so - called hot spots in Georgia, such as the Condor Valley, a method of resisting government. [[It's the unions that do it.]] The Lutsky Castle, Zaporozhye Paper, Evening Nikolayev and others report that in March of this year, closed training seminars were held in Lutsk, Mikolayev, Zaporozhye, Hersoni for young national-democracy activists. This was done with the financial support of the Westminster Foundation for Democracy for a limited, I stress, circle participants. [[United Kingdom]] The coaches were representatives of the Serbian resistance organization and the Belarusian Zubr. [[Do you remember they organized shares against Milosevic?]] They introduced young people from the experience of mass protests, forms of opposition to law enforcement, ways of avoiding responsibility — how to handle arrests and the like. Many questions arise: Who invite such teachers to Ukraine? Why are foreign structures interested in doing so? How much of this secrecy is in line with Ukrainian legislation? Why is the local authorities not well - known in carrying out similar measures? Why are journalists not allowed to do so? What can result from such training for young people? Does this not simply remind you of the development of pyar technologies, but of foreign interference in Ukraine's internal affairs? These and other issues need to be addressed by Ukraine’s law enforcement agencies. The question is, Does the authorities know about this? He knows. But the authorities themselves sign contracts for such arrangements. I'd like to point out that I'm not making any definite conclusions here, but I'm just lecturing the facts that we've been able to figure out, which are the commission's orders. However, I feel it is necessary to make the following statement. We need to draw the attention of our country's senior leadership to the need to take all measures to ensure national security, to prevent interference with Ukraine's internal affairs, to guarantee the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens, to be masters of its own land, to block channels of any foreign invasion into Ukrainian politics, to give firm backing to attempts by foreign embassies and organizations to intervene in our internal affairs, to dictate demeaning conditions and to influence foreign financial organizations to make decisions for the benefit of defined political forces. That's how we get humiliated. This is an article by Madeleine Albright, "How to Help Ukraine Vote," the American Eagle, on top of that is a Ukrainian little Ukrainian who throws a ballot into a urn. By the way, let's say all of our publications that were reprinting this cartoon, they were afraid of just adding it to the text. I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers needs to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an urgent draft law on the activities of non-governmental organizations that are financed from abroad. And the last. There is a need for a mandatory law on commission investigators, where the principles of their work are to be laid out, material security, the sphere of competence, the duties of members of the commission, and they should work, not by "marriage" generals, as it turns out in my work, but by workhorses, because in six years of existence, our commission has never met in its entirety. [[It's not the committee's work at all, let's say.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u59	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Yes, please explain. 15 minutes. Please, Assadchev. Follow him, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear Mr. Reporter! It's a good thing the commission didn't approve of this report, you might think it's your personal report and our "companion" that you're presenting. It was really nice to hear that you and your organization, like Dentists, like the members of the Company use these funds and take a very active part in them. So I realized that even Mrs. Albright was adamant with her cartoon for voting for Mr. Simonek. But it's surprising that you don't have this in the report, as it doesn't say in the report, like, let's say, the "Eeds" election. It was a kushmow structure, you forgot about it and you didn't mention it at all, it's very strange. Neither the U.S.S.U., nor the U.S.A., nor the Communists are mentioned there, but there are only three forces mentioned there: "Our Ukraine", BUT and the Socialists. But now you're talking from the rostrum. So I'd like to ask you, are you going to make adjustments to this report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. I want to answer that. First of all, as far as "Zubru" is concerned, it's not the "Zubr" you're talking about. In Belarus, "Zubr" is an anti-Lukashenkokian who used to set up various demonstrations there, so to speak, and here the "Zubr" in Ukraine is a completely different "Zubr". Now it's for Edu. I want to tell you, my dear colleague, that I personally asked Mr. Klukkowski to check out organizations that seem to be using financial support for hearings, let's say, Russia. Sadly, Mr. Klukkowski refused to carry out the commission’s commission. He's a member of the commission, I asked him: "Look at the funeral home." Because, let's say, it's this kind of data that Pohrebinski is funded by Social Democrats and a Russian foundation. This should really be checked. Klukkowski didn't want to do it. If you have any facts, information, let's definitely get involved and make some adjustments. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u62	Please, Coloniari. Solomon instead of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u63	Dear colleague of Mishur! I am very grateful to you, like my faction colleagues, for the courage you are showing up here in front of us, and for proving to us that the right opposition is pro-American, pro-Western, anti-national opposition, opposition to the Ukrainian people. And I'm asking Adam Ivanovich, our newspaper Voice of Ukraine, to publish this material so that the media of the local, regional people will tell us who is funding the opposition here, and who wants to do what is done there in Georgia and so on and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u64	I can say, by the way, that a lot of the different seminars that have been held lately, the problems of the Georgian-Serbs have been specifically initiated in some seminars.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u65	Please, Solomon, follow Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u66	Thank you very much. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Valery Dmitrovitch, you have on page 10 a reference to one researcher on the activities of non-governmental organizations, a study of their activities in the world as a whole, especially in Latin America and Europe, James Petros, a professor at the American University. And I thank you for bringing this up. But I would like to inform you and everyone who listens to us that Oleg Popov, who has been an American citizen for over a decade, is a very wonderful study. He lives and works as an American citizen of the United States and explores the activities of such an organization throughout the world as."".. Don't you think it's appropriate for us to draw a certain amount of research from these scientists and give the Ukrainian public their conclusions about the shameful activities of these organizations around the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u67	I thank you for asking. I fully support it. Let's say your offer is for this account. It's a very hard-working job, just like the work of our commission. I would like to say that we were forced to use, like the commission of inquiry, various materials themselves. And we've got a lot of this stuff on the committee already. And I'm willing to introduce any member of the committee to these materials, but the thing is, they don't come to meetings. I can tell you who was working in good faith with us, this is Mr. Klukkowski, this is Mr. Kozachenko and Mr. Shurma, and Mr. Mushur. So at four o'clock we were always going to, say, and we thought we should do it. And you see, I call names, well, different representatives. Let's say I went to some of the board members a few times when I was giving a commission, but I have this all written down, fixed, had to come in a few times and remind them that you should go to that organization, please check that information. All I can say is that in the last session, when I presented this report, four men came. I started reading, I read there for about an hour, I say let's talk. So there's no time, the other thing says: I don't agree. And that's the end of it. I mean, I want our commission to be radically updated, and I want it to really work in that direction. That's what I am. I am grateful to Mr. Assadchev for asking such a question, which is just one of the versions. There's a lot of materials that can be added here, including what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u68	Please, Bauer, behind him is Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u69	Mikhailo Bauer, Trudova Ukraine faction, 204 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear Valery Dmitrovich, well, first of all, you said that the funds financed various seminars, studies and so on. Please tell me, have you examined the method of conducting these seminars, the very contents of these seminars, and what did they have against the state? So what was wrong with you, or what did this commission think? And the second question. How do you think you can cover up the crane of any foreign invasion of Ukrainian politics? That's the second question. I think we need to determine today, if other nations' funds are being invested in improving one or another model of electoral, improving some political content, what's wrong with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u70	So the materials that are presented here. The findings are based on the materials we have on the committee, different. So we asked our committee members to study what you're talking about to study these issues. Unfortunately, I can honestly say that some members of the commission did so. Came into the organization, said I had an assignment. I've developed some questions to answer: where is it registered, what kind of funding? By the way, the only Rebirth Fund has published all these things in the open press. Let's say what seminars, when, let's say, what's the purpose, what's the method, etc. By the way, we haven't received any of our members from a committee of such materials. They just came in and said, "Write down what you think is necessary." And those are my sticky, sorry, they're on the committee, on the committee, I'm sorry. As far as what you're saying is concerned. Indeed, I'm in favour of developing a civil society, so that, let's say, non-governmental civil society organizations act as an alternative, let's say, to our authorities, bring their own projects and so on, but not at foreign expense. The thing is, you know, that's a very good saying: whoever pays orders music. The report contains and provides examples that, for example, those who use grants are forced to work on the program that they are given, we will speak and carry out their assignments in this regard. So I think we need to work on this problem. As far as the canals are concerned. There are law enforcement agencies, there is a head of state, there is the Cabinet of Ministers, who have to take appropriate action from this, there is the Security Service, at last. But I want to tell you that there are a lot of unresolved issues here. And what I'm saying is, I don't know how much, but most of the money that comes in here comes back to the grantors who come in here as instructors, they throw us some little crumbs, and they take a lot for themselves. So I'd like to make this legislation very serious. About order, how to register, how much they have, and how to use these costs, and so on. I think these problems can be solved. Sadly, they are not settled today. And that makes it possible to break up in our electric field in different ways, say, funds, grantors and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u71	Please, Bulba. After him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u72	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Well, I'm surprised that the very political power that presents itself as a supporter of democracy is used for such a disgraceful role. Please tell me, is there any illegal activity in all the funds you've been talking about? Why is it that criminal authorities do not fight against them in legal ways? Why are they searching for a reason? For example, I resent being called there, and the Socialist Party is mentioned. Do you really think that if the Socialist Party were to hold a seminar on electoral technology, that would change their ideological beliefs, would it not benefit our party, not our people? I find this simply indignant and surprising that there has been such a large report, which, of course, has not been made by a commission. And they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u73	I got it. So the first thing about power that doesn't react to these things is, first of all, crows don't turn their eyes. And this authority was created in its own time by these grantors, this authority. This is the first time. Secondly, I want to say that you blame me here as a representative of democratic power. I want to say that the conclusions that I've made, I've made, not on behalf of my party, but from the original materials that I have. And I can show you every document, Mr. Bulba. And it's going to be clear, and it's all clear who's going where, why they're going, what conversations are going on there, and so on. So I don't think your comments are addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u74	Please. School. Follow him, Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u75	Your Honor, I ask you one second, have you not explained the illegality of these funds? You haven't heard it out of your mouth. And how can it be to lobby the interests of the Western capital for the support of the electorate? And before I answer that question, I ask you to pass the word to Volin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u76	Please, Volinka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u77	Valery Dmitrovicz, when you went to this rostrum, when you prepared your report, you thoroughly understood that you were giving false information. And here's an example, you're writing here that for the money of the CIA, Timoshenko and Frost created a city of independent trade in Mariupola. I'm explaining to you that I went to Mariupol to help the Communists create a professional organization there in connection with the release of 5,000 workers in the Mariupil metallurgical combination. After that, the First Secretary of the Company of the City of Mariupol Fomenko was kidnapped by bandits. I went there again and took care of it. I was helping the Communists. And what are the charges in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u78	I want to answer. So in the materials you have, there are no charges. And there's no CIA. This is the first time. Second of all, it's illegal. What I'm trying to say is that illegal activity, I want to say first: it's an influence on our internal political processes. I said, and here, let's say, you have what is interference in internal affairs, the Ministry of Justice has given an interpretation. Please read and find the answer there. When it comes to, let's say, some model for the benefit of some political power or country, let's say it was established in one state or another, it's already an intervention. Today we're being driven by a liberal model -- so to speak, democratic, liberal and nationalistic -- whatever. So it's not interference? Intervention, that's it. Let's say the same Tarasyuk, Mr. Tarasyuk held a conference called Ukraine and the World. You know who was invited to this conference, you know the content of this conference, you know who was speaking and how he was speaking. So, Osmund, what did he say? In Ukraine, military goods, travels, law enforcement, and so forth are possible. What is the basis, let's say, for that? Or, let's say, when it's said that in Ukraine, apart from the Georgian version, there can't be any choice, let's say, in elections and after elections, that's what? It's an instigation, let's say, to certain ones, let's say, destabilizing shares. I want to give you some more examples. Now, one minute. I'd like to give you a tour. There is a center for assessing the political risks: how the population of Ukraine feels about this. 73.9 do not believe in the noble intentions of foreign foundations that are investing in our policies. Forty - five percent believe that foreign mecenators thus turn their money around. 29 percent believe that this is used as a bulwark to carry out their own policies. There are many examples. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u79	I've already announced. Please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u80	Dear colleague, I have a series of short questions for you. First: is there enough democracy in Ukraine to be able to calm down, to be sure that we can achieve everything and control everything by our own means? Second: Are all elections or processes in Ukraine conducted honestly and transparently? Third: what awaits those entrepreneurs, bankers, anyone who will fund a non-governmental organization, a public structure that doubts the integrity of any election, will, there, help the opposition political power, including the Communist Party, for example, control the elections, prepare observers? Is that really what these preparations need? Do the State or CEC finance seminars for observers and commission members so that they can do their work properly, by the way, according to Ukrainian legislation? And what are the facts of the specific illegal actions of these organizations that you're referring to: calls for violent action, violations of the territorial integrity of the state, international conflicts, etc. Finally, some of the accusations you made to the Volin to make him seem there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u81	First. I think you've asked a number of rhetorical questions. As far as democracy is concerned, let's say both you and the faction and both, I don't know another faction that, let's say, doesn't say that we don't have democracy. That's the answer to the first question. As for the transparency of the election. We Communists feel it all on our skin, you know, starting with, you know, 1999 or 2002, when we don't play, let's say we don't put it on TV, let's say they're especially afraid of someone and so on. There are many examples here. As for the public structures that will finance, I think there are a lot of these examples in Ukraine. Today, politics and business are very closely connected. The thing is, nobody's taking this seriously and there's no legislation to ask legislative questions about these things. But there are, you know, examples of Mukachev when two, so to speak, gangs decided to change the outcome of the election. They're for their own good, they're for their own good. I believe in something, let's say, that came out here. I mean, what kind of democracy is there in a country like this? As far as CBC is concerned. Indeed, the CEC held seminars, it did social advertising in past elections as it should be voted on, so to speak. CTC says they don't have enough money. And I've got some C.V.C.I. help using the funds they were giving them to, let's say, be able to do that kind of work. But unfortunately, I agree with you, there's not enough money, for example. And in this regard, when they help us, I think we should take such help. When it's printed, let's say, our election law, when it's explained, let's say, the standards of this law are perfectly normal -- what the Klukkowski Institute does. And our, let's say, our deputies were there, too, that's positive. And I can call more institutions that really want something, let's say, in Ukraine in this respect. But what I want to say is, let's say in a whole series of closed seminars, about which we've learned about journalists, and I believe journalists, because, let's say, "Five channels" is a channel of honest news how he advertises himself there. They're a lot of, say, they know about it, they're taking information, and you're coming out of that information, so let's say a seminar is going through, right? - and at this seminar they really say how to behave and what to do is to organize, let's say, actions of disobedience, like the Georgian version and things like that. I mean, there are. So let's say it's a statement. Don't shout like that! In order to claim it, the commission must examine each such fact. What is the commission of inquiry? She should consider all the absolutes, who said and so forth, to check it out. This requires that the commission work honestly to implement those versions that were expressed in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u82	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u83	You see, let's say the commission, some of the board members don't want that. Some are afraid, some are not comfortable, and some are just lazy, I'm sorry. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Have a seat. As he sets the rules, 15 minutes will be for discussion. The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to one question right now. Can we please make a rule when a person presents himself and informs and distributes similar documents at the expense of the Supreme Council on the 40 pages that are named for the previous report on the work of the Temporary Commission? Because here in this report, the so - called report, there is a compilation of all the media that can only be imagined, there is no truth here, there is no truth about the truth, there is no truth about the financing on the part of the forces that are destabilizing the situation in Crimea today, there is absolutely no truth about the so - called Slavonic alliances, there is no truth about the organizations that are naming themselves and today are conducting an openly pro-Russian and openly pro-American position. I stand for the pro-Ukrainian position and against the U.S. lobbying here, and against the lobbying of Russian positions. I don't understand why the work of the commission didn't really give any meaning to how television channels are affected today, 1+1, and how channel 1+1 was allocated at all. How was the American Jewish convention, the Russian Jewish convention, involved? How is the Ukrainian Jewish convention involved? Let us see where national security is really at risk and where hundreds of millions of dollars go. The examples that are cited and cited here, I don't want to, this is where colleague Wolintz said. He helped today and said that he was helping the Communists to create organizations there, and so on, and today he is almost accused of complicity with the Central Intelligence Agency. Although I know he's a very honest and decent person, that's why they're threatening him, and that's what they're doing. You know. So I don't think it's a report, it's not information. That's the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u86	The word is Nadrag, the group is already "Soyuz". Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I think you will agree with me that the subject in our society that we are discussing today is more than ripe. But I want to say that, of course, it is not only the willingness of society to deal with this issue. I want to say that there is really a problem today, and what a lot of people in Ukraine are interested in -- and as we go further, we go further. Accordingly, I think it can be said that there is a desire to influence the situation. Let me give you some examples. This is where we're being given Ukrainian Justice today, information material for the people's deputies. I think it's a publication that can't be accused of any pervasive sympathy. They've got material, they've got material on how the U.S. Congress hearings have been held, called "The future of Ukraine and the interests of the United States". And here's an interesting quote. Directly speaking, “There are no more important events in Europe than the presidential elections in Ukraine in October 1004”. Period. I have a question, I understand that if it's of interest, it's a desire. And here is the desire, in my view, that we must clearly determine what is possible and what is not possible. And when the rapporteur said today that we must legally determine how, who and what we can do on a public line from abroad, we will call so-called public investors in Ukraine, I am absolutely in solidarity here, and I believe that the question of what this material should be developed is absolutely correct. Although I am moving the panacea on my part, as our position is that if it is a conversation that someone wants to make some public investments, they must be about everyone, not the chosen ones. Because examples have been cited here: One is helped, the other is forgotten shyly. Next moment. I think it's important in law and even better in public consciousness. We must ask the question in this way: Ukraine's policies, that is, our local policies must assume moral responsibility for their receiving or not receiving this assistance, to what extent and to what extent assistance can be obtained and for what. For my part, I believe that society through the State must exercise sufficient strict control over this. First, it must fully inform the public who works, how it works and why it works in Ukraine from these foreign public investors. And the last. We must still be more determined to comply with the law. Because we need to understand clearly that when we talk about what they want to teach us, we need to know who, who and what they want to teach. If the principles of conduct in interrogation are no longer a policy, it is already a chapter. In conclusion, I would like to say one thing: it is absolutely solidarity that, apart from public scrutiny, we must scrutinize the legislative regulation of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u88	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. The word is Javorowski's deputy, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski. In a cheerful state we live with you, colleagues. I have been working in the Ukrainian Parliament for many years, but I seem to have encountered a unique phenomenon for the first time. I have the impression that at first I was a colleague of mine, whom I respect as a person, although we have different views, I think a report was written, and then a commission was created. Because I'm on this committee, I was on this committee. It's not unusual at all. We weren't sitting, we weren't going. I want to, once again, work on no commission. Don't yell at me, I'm not afraid of anyone anymore, he's not just yelling. Because of that. I worked on no commission. I'm the deputy head of the customs and customs commission. But I've never seen one of these before. Dear my colleague Mishur. You wanted to be the head, and you became the head, I don't deny it. I'm sorry, but you've taken on the responsibility of gathering. We're busy people. Why did you rush the painting like that? Our commission, which I've already told you, works for a year, and we haven't collected all the material yet. What the hell is wrong with you? So you just had a report ready, and you had to find a chance to announce it. Because of this, I am convinced that accepting this report in faith or even in the knowledge of it is unlikely to be necessary because it does not have any ground. We had to get the deputies together, vote, read this report. I was asked to investigate and provide data on "Ukrainian Truth." People good, "Ukrainian Truth" is Gongadze, this is Gongadze's child. The "Ukrainian Truth," which gives the truth, it's not paid with money from the fund, it's paid with the blood of Georgia Gongadze. I was there. What was I supposed to do, tell me? What am I, an investigator, a prosecutor? Was I supposed to be watching what? It's a normal edit that gives you both that position and that position. By the way, my dear Darling, you only quoted the first half. What you read. “There is no more important event in Europe than the presidential elections in Ukraine in October 2004,” said Andres Aslund. But he went on, and I quote, "The focus of U.S. politics on Ukraine should be on democracy." So what's so bad about this? What's so bad about this? Because of that I say, Valérie Mishur, I say once again, I deeply respect you, but today you made a political report on part of the opposition. The government has the money: 10 billion. Janukovic left you and us to fight. And for some pennies, the pitiful ones who come here from the funds, don't forget that in the West they won't put money into political action either. Because there's democracy. That's why I take it as simple as that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, be civilized. Please give the floor to the national MP Melniczuk, a faction of socialists. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u91	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region The All-Ukrainian Association of Land and Property Owners. Dear Adamovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! The report is a report, life is a life, we need to pay more attention in the further part of our country, really, we are on the electoral front and we need to do everything we can to keep the people of Ukraine out of democratic elections in our country without interference. I, for example, am a young parliamentarian not accepting the argument that Russia will make against one candidate, what will the United States say against another candidate? In fact, I have one argument: what would the people of Ukraine say about a candidate? And on this point, I would like to say that intervention or financial or otherwise needs to be controlled, not by the members of the Supreme Council, but by the state. If. Of course, public husbands have no interest in this. But since I'm on the rostrum, I realize that we're in the regions, I'd like to publish today some data that isn't the intervention today, but is the abuse of peasants by the judiciary. And not all the judiciary. I just got back from Dnipropetrovština, and I want to tell you that a decision like this that I got to know in the Moscow area, which was adopted by the District Court, I haven't met at all, and when I went to the experts, they couldn't even give an argument to the NovoMoscow Court. What decision did he make? Obligations for peasants who have received State acts in the village of Spasca to conclude an agreement with the renter Gusenko, whom people do not trust and who has been deceiving people for the past three years. Please tell me, how can a court, a judge, oblige a landowner to conclude a contract with a tenant who does not comply with the contract? On this point, I would like to say that we wouldn't discuss it, and the authorities act the way they do, take the land into the countryside, don't look at it by breaking the laws, and act through the courts and the prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u92	Yes, please have the word of the national deputy Solomonine. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I would like to remind you that the initiative to create this commission belongs to the National Deputy of Ukraine, the head of the Communist faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Peter Simonck. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 4478 on the creation of a commission was introduced by the leaders of five parliamentary associations: the Communist faction, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine, the People's Democratic Party, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc and the People's Choice Group. The draft decree won 289 votes for members of the people. The commission was not voted by representatives of the "Our Ukraine" Block and the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Guys, you've got a gun! You can be proud of what you have witnessed to all the Ukrainian people, whose foreign funds and centers you are now feeding. By the way, it was very painful here for "Ukrainian Truth," that this is the edition of Georgia Gongadze. Yes, but this "Ukrainian Truth" is financed by Americans. She was the one who reported on December 1, 2003, that a two - day visit was made by the leader of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, and a program for which the National Democratic Institute of the United States organized. Major Melnichenko and other well - known personalities led by Jelyashkevich are on hold. I want to tell you, honourable officials, the fifth column of American forgetful democracy, that it is a faction of Communists to protect Ukraine’s national interests, not forgetful democracy! Because every democracy serves only the power that produced it and that sustains it. So I would like to propose, of course, to support the decision that is proposed, but to add to it the following point: "Stop the activities of NGOs by December 2004, that is, until the end of the election campaign." And what I'm saying is that our faction is opposed to lending $10 million from the United States of America to finance, which is to keep Central Election Ukraine, as if to be able to use modern electronic technology. But as they work, we already know this from Russia. So we are very grateful for the good things of the Pacific and Uncle Sam, but please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Replica, please, Nadara.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u95	Here the distinguished colleague continued to quote and everything else. I'd like to be properly understood. I didn't say or aim to assess who was making the declaration. I set out to say that we must clearly understand for ourselves who is coming, why is coming into Ukraine's public life with money, and what is its goal. That's what's important for today. And if we start walking on quotes right now, it won't make any sense. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, I've given a line and I'll give it to those whose names were called. His name was Nadrag, and he got a replica. There were no other names. So please, Mishuri a minute to be incarcerated. I'll give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u97	The faction of the Communists of Mishur. First. A replica of Mr. Carmazin's statement that there is no truth here. The reaction from that side shows that everything is true. It's different. Mr. Yavorowski himself. I personally wrote to each member of the commission with my hand a personal invitation to a meeting of the commission. Mr. Yavorowski was on January 13, and he did not show up again. I had to ask him several times to, say, give him the test materials. I am very grateful to all who have spoken here, and I think that the commission should continue to work because the problem is very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u98	Nobody talks anymore. Please, they called the Soccer and the Dentist. Who's from Soccer? Boki, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u99	Here one of Papua New Guinea’s special forces tried to cast a shadow as if the Socialist Party of Ukraine and its leader, Frost, were working together with some foreign enemies. I think it all comes from the fact that some Papua New Guinea Special Agents are simply still sick of finding an enemy anywhere. Including in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u100	Solomonine, I don't understand what you're holding. It wasn't about you. Yes, please, the ZUBR was mentioned. Please, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u101	Vladimir Leshchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro, interfractional interfractional association "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia". [[ZOBU]] Here one of the instigators, in an attempt to shift responsibility from a diseased head to a healthy one, used the accusations of a parliamentary interfractional association "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia" in the form of funding for foreign money. [[ZOBU]] You can see who's got a snorkel in his throat right now. I hereby claim that this is a vile lie. And an attempt to compromise a noted parliamentary union that expresses the desire of the vast majority of the people of Ukraine to unite the brotherly Slavonic nations will never succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u102	Yes, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Listen, please, what I'd like to say to you. In the morning, with your help, we went to break the Rules with your will, and I'm not going to end it. Therefore, in accordance with article 4.6.4 of the Rules, which states that "a temporary special commission within the term of the Supreme Council, but not later than 6 months after its creation, shall submit to the Supreme Council a written report on the work done and the relevant draft acts of the Supreme Council and other materials which shall be distributed among the deputies." [[That's why they report to Vladimir Yavorowski, because they're not obliged to report later than six months later, and your non-reporting committee is in violation of the Rules.]] This part was executed. Sadly, though, the first part of this article was not fulfilled. After discussing the results of the work of the Temporary Special Commission on Standing Committees. And now it's on the Committees of the Supreme Council, and at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council takes a final decision on them, or entrusts the commissions to continue their work and defines a new term for it. Since this article of the Rules, which has not been discussed and does not have a decision by a special commission, is being drafted by the people’s MP Mishura, we cannot vote today or vote. But I stress, article 6.4. Part 3, if the Main Commission, i.e. if the committee does not prepare a written conclusion on the appropriateness of the bill, the Supreme Council shall, within fifteen days of the written request of the initiator of the legislative initiative, consider the matter in plenary session and take the appropriate decision. [[and the main committee in this case must be the Committee on Freedom of Speech]] I mean, if the profile committee doesn't come to the right conclusions on the draft decision of Mishura, then the people's MP of Mishur is allowed to go to the Supreme Council 15 days after the term of the committee's action, without a profile committee. And then we're going to look at this draft decision. Question completed. Please sign in. We've got an hour on "Virgin" today. Please show me. There were 42 national deputies. So we have exactly an hour until 14.01. The word has the national MP Puzakov, a faction of Communists, to prepare for Samoulovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u103	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština It can be said without hesitation that in Ukraine a political regime has been strengthened, with the key features of increasing power and ownership, the domination of financial and political groups in economic and political censorship, the use of administrative and economic pressure, and sometimes physical violence, the use of force structures as a means of political pressure. And just as the authorities today do not use the trust and support of most citizens, they have taken a dead hold to arm the preparations for the presidential elections. But according to a survey of citizens in our area, the level of support for power does not exceed 6.8 percent. However, 39 percent are ready to vote for Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich today. So, knowing this, the authorities are looking for different scenarios to confirm their legitimacy and self-preservation, because the defeat of presidential elections by individual authorities may lead to the redistribution of property and possibly criminal persecution and appropriate sanctions by the new authorities. The implementation of these techniques requires a fairly large-scale application of administrative resources and dirty political technologies. Thus, in Kirovgrad, the anti - national authorities took on the implementation of them with such incomprehensibility. In ferocious rage, they began to assemble closed areas, starting their shameful business with hospitals. The chief doctors and their deputies, school principals, teachers who were so loyal to the bourgeois authorities in previous electoral campaigns, created interest for them, forged a victory, and today they are no longer in charge. And it hurts to look at a deluded intelligence that can't possibly believe that it's being used as a secondhand and will eventually be thrown out. And we have, as the Old Man puts it, "The people are struck down with poverty, they are impoverished, and they are told in darkness that they have forgotten and will respect themselves." I'm talking to intelligence not only in the area, but also in Ukraine, to respond by protesting to those who have restored the terrible disease of tuberculosis, who have contributed to the development of drug addiction, to those women who lose the ability to have healthy children or who can never have them at all, to those who have given birth to 180,000 homeless children, and to those who have taken 35,000 citizens and so on. And if you do not make the right choice this year by tilting your heads, you will be left with only promises and poverty for many years. You'll normally be used, and then you don't need to be thrown out, like the so-called "workers" are doing in Kirovgrad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u104	Sherschun instead of Samowolski. Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u105	Mikola Shershun, Ravenshing, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues. Our faction always builds its relationship with the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers on the principles of balance and constructiveism. Even when there is a lot of tension and heat in the session room. I want to remind you that we have all been elected to the Supreme Council to solve many painful problems. For the people's agricultural deputies, the priorities were and remain the protection of the interests of farmers, the creation of favourable conditions for efficient and economic activity in agriculture. In order to carry out these tasks, factions have been developed and submitted to the Supreme Council over 150 drafts, the vast majority of which relate to the regulation of activities in the agricultural sector of the economy. Many of them have become laws thanks to the support of the entire Supreme Council. As a result, the tax regime for agricultural enterprises and the rural population, the improved APC credit and financing mechanism, has been extended, and many other agricultural and land-related issues have been addressed. But many of the current bills introduced by members of the agrarian faction have been said to remain under dress for a long time, even those that cause no objection. An example is the bill No. 5009 - on the introduction of additions to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the transfer of social infrastructure objects]] Who does not know that the problem of transferring such objects to municipal property is not solved solely for the purpose of paying VAT. And as a result, today many kindergartens, parks, cultural buildings, and sports buildings that once belonged to the farm are essentially harmless. On my home country, I've got about half of that. This is a huge problem. By the way, the requirements for settling this problem come literally from all areas. Even taxpayers agree with our bill to abolish VAT on these transactions. All it takes is a formal procedure to put the matter on the agenda of any plenary meeting and vote. Instead, however, precious time is spent on various political squabbles, relationships, and ropes. With this, dear fellows, we must finish. We do not provoke the villagers to radical action, for the consequences may be unpredictable. We call on all the national MPs, unfortunately, only the factions remain in the room, to return to productive work, and in the first place to consider bills that will help solve the mature social and economic problems of the Ukrainian village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u106	Michael Gladys has the word. Prepare for Blackwolf. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u107	Michael Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Please give the floor to the national deputy Borzih Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u108	The Microphone of the People's Deputy Borzich. On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u109	Borzih, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party in Parliament. Addressing Prime Minister Janukovič of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich for support of the agricultural sector of the economy. We, the members of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party in Parliament, are addressing you with the following: recently, a number of joint efforts by the legislative and executive authorities have been made to restore Ukraine's economic potential, stabilize a whole range of businesses and industries. That's why the annual GDP increase, the increase in wages, pensions, the increase in social protection. To a large extent, priority policies contribute to this. So in the last period, energy, mining and metallurgical complex, machine building, food industry, other industries have been restored. To our deep conviction, it is now our turn to seriously support the village and agriculture. It is not a secret that the gap between the city and the village continues to widen. The countryside is becoming unattractive to life. Schools, kindergartens, health facilities, businesses, and businesses are closed. The outflow of labour from the village, and especially the young, is steadily increasing. This affects farmers’ economic performance, the agricultural sector’s economy in general and food security in the state. So the first priority for power is to make the village attractive both in terms of economics and in terms of people's place of residence. On May 11, 2004, the government clearly testified to the position of the vast majority of the political powers of Parliament, and the village needs strong state support. The situation can be substantially corrected already this year if decisive steps are taken to implement the measures envisaged in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decisions and by 11 May 2004 on agro-industrial production and social development priorities in Ukraine in 2004 and to develop effective mechanisms for their development in the future. Dear Victor Fedorovich, you have done a lot in person to make the situation of agriculture a better place, and you have repeatedly stressed your position on the need for state support for the village. In this regard, you would be asked to intervene in the situation once again in person and to assign to the appropriate government structures the unconditional implementation of the above - mentioned Supreme Council decree, the preparation of the necessary proposals for a substantial increase in the country’s state support from the Ukrainian State Budget for 2005. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u110	Taras Cranville. Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, one of the most painful problems of today's social sphere is the problem of social guarantees for education, and in particular, the implementation of the 57th article of the Education and Recovery Act, which was made available to educators in all previous years when this article was not implemented. The Enlighteners are carrying out mass acts of disobedience today throughout Ukraine. I have, in my district, already going through the hunger of the education community, demanding that the funds be reimbursed. People demand nothing too much -- they demand what the state owes them, and they demand the funds that are just needed today for these people to survive. We know well that the wages of teachers in Ukraine are one of the lowest today. At the same time, we are actually cutting off and destroying investments in the future, because normal school, normal teaching depends on the situation in which a teacher comes to work, when he can at least deviate partly from the problems that arise in his home as a result of chronic underfunding and overtime. For this reason a number of legislative initiatives appeared in the Supreme Council to solve the problem. After the mass lawsuits had gone from education to the courts, and when those lawsuits either went uncontested, they were blocked by the judiciary, or they were applied to local budgets, to the same sector, after which the education staff could not get the current salary, my bill was introduced, and then three more bills were introduced, which unfortunately have not been considered to date. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, at the hearings held in the Supreme Council on Higher Education, informed the students that at the next hearing of the plenary week, that is, at this, there will be hearings of these issues and making decisions out of these very specific laws. Unfortunately, it's been too long this week, and we haven't been able to make it happen. I call on all my colleagues to consider these questions in the next plenary week. Regrettably, the Constitutional Court strongly refused to consider the matter and returned the 45 deputies to where the matter had been raised without consideration. In the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the answer to the question was as follows. They can't afford the statutory wages for education, let them free people. I'm sorry, but it looks like the greatest cynicism. And I'm very sad that the Committee on Budgets didn't consider the bills that were passed on this issue for exactly one year, and it was only after a bill was introduced that was specifically signed by members only by the Committee on Budgets. As far as I am concerned, this is a very serious reminder of the abuse of the position of service. I would like us to conduct a normal procedure of reviewing all four bills, to determine which of them is more suited to the needs of education than to some political, conjunctural, other needs, and finally to solve the problem that exists in the field. The state can pay off those debts. These are government debts, not local budgets. We must fulfill this responsibility. I urge you to do it in the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u112	The word is given by the deputy Simonenko instead of Solomon. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Simonenko, the Communist faction. First of all, I'd like to address our radios with a basic request. During this week, the Communist faction strongly questioned the urgent return of our soldiers from Iraq and, by blocking the decision-making process, the representatives of the Presidential majority and our family have not been able to resolve the issue. That's why I'm addressing you, honored parents and mothers, sisters and relatives, close ones -- those who today, unfortunately, make money for future life with arms and their own deaths in Iraq. Let us, through various forms of protest, support the action "Return our sons from Iraq!"which was launched and today announced by the Samuelk Women's Organization 'Women of Ukraine--for the future of children of Ukraine!".. It will be the national movement that will defend its own sons and future Ukraine and speak against this criminal authority. The other one. Regrettably, however, the presidential majority also failed to vote on the bill that we Communists have introduced regarding the imposition of a moratorium on the price of bread, milk, meat, and other products. Again, the pressure is that our poor people today are no longer able to feed their own families. That's why I'm second-handing you, distinguished radio listeners, for support. Let's take an active position together today and not give the criminal-oligaric authorities another opportunity to rob us of our own families. And the third. The Supreme Council has just heard information about the involvement of non-State funds in Ukraine’s political life. It was our initiative, the factions of the communists, to take a close look, and who's funding from abroad, which centres, which influence groups, which political parties, and who's trying to do it today because of this influence and through the financing of these parties, to put a queue of puppets in Ukraine and manage them, already holding them to the programs they want from abroad. Those who doubt, once again, I want to stress the end of the cold war, but the effect on Ukraine has not ended. And instead of the awesome different programs, these funds are already being used. It's direct financing of consciousness formation in the interests of the United States, it's bribery of personnel, it's special training for young people. Because of different, so-called, humanitarian programs, there's an environment that's influenced by just Western politicians, it's called ratings and a lot of other things. That's why I'm addressing you again, your esteemed radio listeners. A very responsible time today for the people of Ukraine, and it is up to us to determine with you what kind of authority we will have after October of this year. I am deeply convinced that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u114	Katusheva. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u115	During the preparatory period of 18 May 2004, events related to the mourning date of the 60th anniversary of the deportation of Crimean Tatars, Bulgarians, Greeks, Armenians and Germans had, unfortunately, revealed the most acute problems that had been heard by the majority of the population at another time. On 18 May, a number of actions were carried out not only by ordinary citizens but also by individual officials, both by representatives of the most radical structures of Crimean Tatars and by other parts of the population. You know, I was even offended by what went on in Simferopol. In Simferopol, such an atmosphere of hostility was strained, the movement was blocked, and the children were not allowed to go to school. What kind of international feelings are we going to talk about after this? The next day, when a student comes to school and sits next to a Crimean Tatar, he will look at him if he is not allowed to go to school the next day, frightening him with a Tatar factor. You know, I'll probably do it again, but it's the most offensive thing to do when the pressure goes on. Crimean Tatars are the same people and they are Ukrainian citizens. They want peace and stability on our common ground. And if we really want peace, there must be no pressure. Shops were closed. No food. For these facts, which were held in Crimea on 18 May, someone must be responsible, because that is not the solution to the problem. You can't speculate on that date. I find it offensive and repulsive that my people are being speculated on and speculated on by officials. Who needs to solve this problem, they take it and they solve it. And we saw in the hall how we voted in favour of the law that Communists make enemies of number one, all one hundred percent voted in favour of the draft law on the restoration of the rights of depositees. Well, please, "Regions," i.e. the authorities, the ones who spoke in Crimea the day before, and said that they were supposed to solve the problem of the Crimean Tatar people. We saw them vote. In general, there was such a background of hostility that they were in fact re-insured, and the actions of individual officials were repugnant. At the same time, there was hardly any real expression of compassion and support in all of this. That was not enough at the time of the February rally. Speculation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u116	The word has Javorovsky instead of Chechel and School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Head, the 14th is giving me the word "school." I'll read a letter, my fourth letter to President Kuchma. Mr. President, in a few months, you will release the Ukrainian people from your arms. A few more months to go, so that your opponents don't search us in the forest. By the end of 2004, you will be betrayed by those who are kissing the pope’s slipper today, and by all inquisitor methods, the opposition’s mouth will be shut down. I'm even getting ready to have to protect you from your environment. That's why I'm trying to appreciate the years of your directorship in Ukraine now that the administration is running out of love for you. The uninhabited Constitution gives me that right. Since you dare not take on a third term of shame, I have no hatred for you as a person. I just want to tell you the truth about you when you're still in power with all the repulsive consequences that I, as a human being, as a deputy and as the head of the still unsettled National Writer Society, have on me all the time. From the first one was your short - term premiere. I have a relic, the original of your first speech in Parliament, and the English text is rendered in Russian letters with accents. You can give Azar as a self - teacher. You're talking about the monopoly mafia, about the fuel famine and about 8 million tons of quota oil exported from Ukraine to Canada and to the Bahamas by businessmen. You knew their names, but you didn't name them. Today they are leading your administration. The result of your premiere is the imitation of reforms, gang trusts, the start of Marauder's acceptance, the establishment of your own capital, and the constant political rumblings. All of you are prevented from working, and no one explains what it is that you need to build — a temple or a needer. You became president as an opposition to the Croat Minor Russian authorities, but your opposition was just a mask, a vertex, an electoral cook. In fact, you didn't know how you didn't know and now what to do with Ukraine. You went to the election, not as a patriot reformer, but as a growing adventurer and ignorant. You have reached Ukraine with energy, strength, and faith in its rapid rebirth, in its statehood. She'd have a brave patriot leader who wouldn't steal or steal from others, and she wouldn't have gotten away with it. In eight years of your one - person administration, you leave it exhausted and betrayed in all things, a pawn to strangers. You're sweating that the national idea didn't work. Even though you don't know what it is right now. Your ideas were not national, and your ideas were family, colonial. That's why Ukrainian is orphaned, so this is how our great nation lives, Mr. President. You weren't ready to be the leader of the nation and you haven't mastered this science in 10 years. You've just drained the craftsmanship of a provincial intriguer who's no longer very afraid of the genesek Putin, giving him bribes in the form of oil pipelines, Tuzla, and EP. During your reign, the favorites were those who did not serve Ukraine but you. The coastals, the Poles, the Czechs, the Hungarians are already in the bosom of the European Union, and you are still shepherding Ukraine on the Moscow latrine. So instead of an army, we have a guerrilla squad and we're abandoned for self-sustainment. Instead of protecting the army of marauders protecting the bandits, instead of the judges, the underground auction "whoever gives more", instead of the freedom of speech -- the streams of the dull Medvedchuk lie, from which Ukraine degrades daily, instead of the political debates of the SDPU(o) wept. Instead of stockpiling national glory, Ukraine’s disgrace as a state and a free - ridden quasi - Communist government is growing immensely. The Ukrainian village from which we were to begin our rebirth has been transformed into a horrendous ghetto. In such a country, it is frightening to live in the absolute majority of the people who are in opposition to you. In such a country, you and your mate in Kiev, areas, and areas are not alone. The poorer we are in Europe, the poorer we are, the younger and the Albanians. For 337 years, Ukrainians struggled with all means to restore their statehood — martyrdom, gunshots, famines, prisons, Siberia, and the breaking of their backs. And to you, who were won by others, Ukraine came to own as a lottery, as a random win. You took advantage of it. And at this tragic crossroads, Ukraine was once again sold to Russia. You want to pass the matter on to those who continue to do so if you are disappointed in everything you have been robbed and robbed of by you. And all this to go on, Mr. President, let's go! Get married in the three holes of Medvedchuk! Write down all the devilish sins of your regime and ensure the will of the Ukrainian people in the presidential election, where, I believe, the instinct of national self-preservation will work. This action will give historians little opportunity to say a warm word about you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u118	The word has Anatoly Orzhachowski instead of Catherine Samuel. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u119	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head, colleagues, voters! At a time when an active model of power is being sought in Ukraine and the economic situation is in decline, the social protection of the population does not withstand any criticism, the informational access of the population to the media remains important as a way to find the truth of life. While in the Tavrian region, visiting villages, villages where I can be sure of the need to find ways to improve the television and radio services of the population. There are now 26 radio organizations licensed in the Herson region, and there is a television network programme for 2003-2005 that covers the entire area. Unfortunately, natural disasters, the collapse of the village’s production base, do not guarantee the availability of local financial sources. Therefore, without financial support from the government, the program will not be implemented. You have to make an urgent amount of $250,000. to complete the construction of the repeater in the village of Olga Vysopil district. My previous references to the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine, the National Council of Ukraine on TV, did not produce positive results, but only came back with letters and promises. Today, residents of several areas of the area, such as Highpole, are not able to use the services of Herson Television and live in a single area, but are watching the broadcasts of neighboring areas. Regrettably, there has been a significant decrease in the number of radio channels in the area. If there were 318,000 in 1997, it is now only 120,000 units. It turns out that the authorities do not have the resources to buy guidance to improve communication with people. The same is true of Scadovian, Kalanchik, Bilozer regions, and perhaps not for anyone: less hearing, less knowing, more quiet living, more sure voting for those they say. In order to provide the pipeline network, a legislative and regulatory framework is needed. The time has come for the drafting of a legislative act banning the destruction of radio communication and its reestablishment. Because of the low cost of services, the non-profitability of the local "Silver" schools is not interested in the development of the sphere. It turns out that in Ukraine everything that is heard by ordinary people, especially veterans, is not profitable. I think the privates, the liaisons have to understand, you have no right to leave the so-called category of citizens of the state, even though the only joy is to be connected with the world around you. Hopefully, the authorities will take steps to improve the information space. The refusal to help will be another piece of evidence that power needs to be changed, and I call on voters to support a candidate from the Communist Party of Ukraine during the election of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u120	Anatoly Grzezhev, get ready for Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, respectable Alexander Aleksevich! In accordance with our Constitution, man is the primary value. And it would seem that the protection of his interests should be a matter of priority for the authorities. What's really going on? There's been a lot of questions about the newspaper The Village News. Nearly 600,000 citizens are writing it out. Despite this, the current power, through judicial decisions, wants to close it, thereby ignoring the interests of this mass of people, let alone the development of democracy in our country. On 25 May, an action was taken to protect the newspaper. And on behalf of the socialists, I invite all those interested in democracy to the monument of Princess Olga at 8:30 a.m. to support this newspaper. Second fact. The sessions of the Supreme Council raised the question of formal consideration of parliamentary requests and appeals by officials. It is no secret to anyone that the most destitute citizens are usually approached with the last hope, but unfortunately most of us have been asked to help and protect them from arbitrary interference. It would seem that the representatives of the current authorities, who are at the same people's disposal, should serve the interests of the people first, and in practice, once again, I say everything the other way around. I am quite clear that the problems of the ordinary Ukrainian citizen are of no interest to anyone in the current system of authority. And it's universal, systemic. Let me give you another example. I was approached by residents of the village of Rogev Makarov district of Kiev on the issue of non-payment of their milk. Of course, I asked the head of the Makarska Administration of Herbutu to take clear measures to return money to the people. But it wasn't here. I quote the answer at the end: "All the materials on debt collection are at the Office of Justice, to which you can ask for clarification and a solution to this question if necessary." Here's a classic bureaucratic, heartless response from an irresponsible official. In this regard, I request the Deputy Prosecutor-General, the Head of the Kiev Regional Public Administration, to investigate the non-payment of money to the people for milk delivered, and to assess the inaction of the Head of Administration and its formal relationship in addressing these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u122	Michael Volintz has the floor. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u123	People's deputies, a little of this rostrum is talking about how loud today is the question of the debt of wages, despite the fact that this is the year of the election, despite the fact that the second year the President is renegotiating his orders. In the coal sector alone, debt on wages amounts to more than 1.2 billion dollars and by manipulating the ministry’s management, Sergey Tulub tries to shift from budget funding to debt repayment while coal companies fail to pay the current wage. We see an example of just manipulating. The second question is debt to teachers, which is about 6 billion for vacations and health purposes. This debt arose in previous years, and when I met with the Minister of Education and Science, Vasil Kremen, he said, "Come on, let's take a look and restructure this debt for 10 years." It's just a disgrace when we didn't get to the point today. And I want to stress the following. Today, independent unions are under tremendous pressure from the services and authorities. Maybe this has something to do with the presidential election. For my part, I turned to the head of the BSS, the Prime Minister and other high-ranking officials of our state, where I made clear where they were exerting pressure on the destruction of independent unions and in each case the pressure was increasing, and I received the receipts. It's very surprising that today, National Deputy Valérie Mishur has asked about the report of the Interim Investigation Commission and how it has become clear to me personally, and it is clear to me that this is from the provision of the Ukrainian Security Service that he has published information about the disgraceful independent trades, as they are today holding onto the CIA's funds and so forth. I was trying to give an example of when I was approached by the National Deputy Bondarczuk of the Communist faction, as well as by the Ex-Deputy of Tereshuk, who asked me to help create an independent union in Mariupoli, where 5,000 workers were released at the Austal factory. I provided both technical and advice. And when the secretary of the Communist Party of Mariupol Fomenko was kidnapped and I went out there and figured out that, three weeks later, my son was kidnapped in the same scenario, and here is an example that the leader of the Socialist faction Alexander Moroz and BJU Yulia Timoshenko were created for the CIA's funds. [[bandits were kidnapped]] Where is the logic of Mishura’s behavior? I know for a fact that such information was provided to him by the B.S.A., and I am just surprised that such an experienced MP could do so. He lists several other businesses where independent trade unions have been destroyed. But he doesn't say they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u124	Eugene Gorenik. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u125	Deputies! Dear voters! The consideration of the previous issue of grants is a vivid illustration of the famous Ukrainian proverb when the thief screams: "Hold the thief!"...a vivid illustration of the Communicating Union, which is why a rather topical Iraqi question has been put aside. But I didn't go out to tell you about the situation in Cane. Tomorrow, Ukraine will celebrate the once banned by the royal regime and Communists of Chewchenk festival, the next anniversary of the burial of the Great Cobzar in Ukraine on the Taras ’ Mountain. The celebration will be held in the 19th year of Shevchenk's birth. And unlike March 9, I hope, even with the participation of senior government men. And that's good. Because there is no higher figure in Ukraine. But under a number of personal circumstances, I have visited the city of the Cannes in the past 15 years or twice a year. So I can testify that, with the exception of March 9 and May 22 there is a void. Sadly, Taras ’ mountain did not become a soft place for the Ukrainian people. The absence of a railway connection with Kanev, a bad transport connection, causes people to wander around in search of a Ukrainian shrine. The museum complex itself has long been unfunded. And all these things are not random. In its deukrineization policy, Ukraine’s modern - day ruling circles are doing everything they can to isolate Shevchenk from the people and people of Shevchenk. And this is evidenced by the absence of any programs in the ministries of education, culture, family, young people in order to visit the children of Taras Mountain for the purpose of the patriotic upbringing of young people. Believe me, one visit to Kanev and Shevchenk's places. Worth a year of lectures, seminars, and other academic activities. The main thing is the kids want to go there. And as a national MP, I'm trying to help them. So by means of a variety of mecenati, which are extremely grateful, I organize school trips. But in doing so, I faced bureaucratic rules for the transport of children set up by the Ministry of Education. Believe me, the officials of the Ministry, I share your concern for the health and fate of the children. But believe also that the nation’s moral health is no less important than physical health. So I encourage young ones to organize trips to Canoe along with the rest organizations in Crimea or Carpathians. Children in Canoe are raised by real patriots in Ukraine. So I suggest we cancel these rules. And I'm asking you to consider the request of Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco, although I doubt that this person will even try.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u126	Boris Olinick. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u127	Dear colleagues. We're being turned over to the bogs with the bad store, we haven't sold yet, you haven't stolen everything. We're actually being stolen about 14 years ago, and how rich is the state that's standing on its feet. The impression is that this has become a norm, and those who do not steal need to be planted so that they do not spoil our international image. But here's the thing. That's what they're stealing. But we are self - sacrificing, and we are spiritually free. On May 15th, the Young Ukraine printed Tanyuk's address to the prosecutor about the transfer, the intention to hand over to Ukraine the Kenigs collection, the famous artists of the German 15th to 16th century. In principle, we are not mere knights who would sit on crates and not give to others, but under international legal standards, it is ours, ours, already entered into our spiritual context, because it was passed on as winners and as those who suffered from the fascist occupation and war. Well, I'd still be able to understand if the same Dutch people were trying to get these works back to them, but they did mention that they had two Durer paintings that were moved in 1941 from the Levian Museum and still not returned. Even though we're already on a mutual basis, well, we've passed on these values to each other. And we gave up, you know, a bag of Bach, remember that story? Well, in a nutshell, that's you, because I don't know the address. And another, dear colleagues, on the street of the Red Army, house number 121, the museum of Maria Zankovetskie, which was built after the fire at the place where her house was located. Around the museum is a beautifully decorated park with different kinds of trees and so forth. Zankovetskie Park, so called, is a favorite place to rest. It's also a beauty, and it's like the whole park was sold to someone. And under the construction of two huge, multi-story buildings. If so, it means both the park and the museum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u128	Michaela Melniczuk has the floor. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u129	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Respectable radio listeners, respected cynics. On behalf of the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Mines, I report that on May 25, 2004, there will be an eight-hour action to support the newspaper "The Village News". From all regions of Ukraine, peasants will come to defend their right to defend the village newspaper. It was, it is, it will be. We will clearly stand in the position of protecting our newspaper, which brings to the villagers and to all Ukrainians the word of truth, the truth that is happening in our country. I've got another number for the newspaper "Village News." I'd like to start by saying what I want to say next about some of the actions of the judiciary. Read the article in "The Village News," "Judge Natalie Quichtenko," and you'll understand a lot of things about which state we live in and what happens to our justice. If you start with Ivano-Frankish. As soon as I got back from there, I had a meeting with a veteran organization. The war hospital is closed, garrisoned, closed to veterans. What happens when the Ministry of Defense, contrary to Yanukovič's plan of action to mark the 60th anniversary of the victory, and it's written clearly in the second paragraph, is signed, I repeat, Yanukovitch, that this hospital should be reclassified to a district hospital for veterans, participants, military personnel, participants in the Great War. And yet the Ministry is closing. And Mr. Vishiwanuk wants the gallery there, the paintings, you see, that's where he wants to put it. What's this all about? And the veterans will have to go to either Lviv or Chernivka and be treated there. And this is happening today in the eyes of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. What I'd like to say is, wherever we're going in court, I'm talking about Dnipropetrovsk, Kyivsky, Zelenyków, Yavorov Ivano-Frankowishy, Cherkasky region, Smilski -- judges everywhere take decisions against peasants. [[Mironovo Region]] I'm addressing you, Your Honor! Consider the fact that a peasant can be left without land! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u130	Olga Hinsburg. Get ready for Phydenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u131	Dear voters, distinguished Alexandre Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs! I wasn't prepared to speak today, but it turned out that I had a chance to do it. And I'm going to start by getting answers to my questions from the government about pension insurance that don't satisfy me at all. And each of the deputies working in the district, and since Monday, we've all been working in the district, and it's been such tough days for an MP, when you meet with voters every day, these days are written down, and there's going to be the same questions that you can't answer specifically or you can't help people. And I thought to myself, because a lot of us forgot when we were living in a Soviet state -- when the Communist Party was running, when the bread stood 14 copies, when you were in school, and you could go to a higher education. After school, you were given a job assignment: you came, you were given a job, you were paid a salary, you were given a dormitory, you could become a person, you were in the state all the time. We may have remembered or forgotten that once in a village where there was a colporteur’s library, where there was a club where all the people gathered, and they celebrated all the festivals together. We may have forgotten that there was once a working group where factories worked in three different ways, and where we knew each other in this labor group. If you came to work and got caught up in it, you had a very broad sense of collectiveism, and you had the support of it. You and I may have forgotten that the State was concerned about our health, our education, the image of the entire world. We were members of this state, we were citizens of it, we respected it. And I'm thinking, well, why did we forget all this, and why don't we want it back? Because that was how much. And we did everything we could to buy it for the money. Only money, money, you're rich, you're human, you're poor, you're nothing. And I want to talk to my constituents today, because we have to get all of this back. And today, when the election comes, the election of the President, the heads of state, we need to know what we have in our hands the practice of this work, which is power, is the Communist Party that has to do it and can do it, there are frames that can lead, there are structures that can make it work. We have a job survey. And I'm just offering to support the Communist Party election by mentioning my best life in Soviet times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u132	Stanislaw Phydenko has the word to prepare Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u133	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Volin. Dear colleagues, our constituents! I want to address an extremely important issue that we're constantly addressing, and we can't prove to the end -- the issue of pension insurance for the participants of the Great Homeland War. No matter how much we try to repay our parents and grandparents who have unanimously raised themselves to protect our Fatherland, we will all be in their eternal debt. The moral significance of their heroic feat is far greater than what we have done for them and what we will do. Today it's become fashionable to say beautiful words at a rally, in honor of frontal heroes, like "growls of veterans, we're in eternal debt to you, etc." On the second day, a gray - headed veteran asks for admission to a proud official, and the guard does not order him to be put on the doorstep. Veterans react painfully to such things. At the same time, we, the national deputies, did not do everything to improve social protection. War veterans are getting smaller and their age is increasing. They must receive the benefits they deserve today, and they must be granted the full benefits, for it will be late tomorrow. I would like to celebrate the proper work in this regard of the Committee on Retired Veterans, led by Communist Zibank. People’s deputies, General of the Herasimov army, General Anastasiav, head of the Republican veteran organization, are already active here. It was their committee for the direct support of the Company faction that proposed to amend the Law on Social Protection of War Veterans. On May 15, last year, at their initiative, changes were made to the basic law to grant benefits to the disabled of war, including those who had lived to an old age and had become disabled in peacetime. The work in this regard has already begun. However, there are many challenges that are artificially created by health authorities, namely, commissions that qualify the disability group and its character. I will follow a specific example, which, unfortunately, is many. Colonel Tsipushkin of Lutka, a veteran of missile forces, a participant in combat, my mate. His qualified commission now recognized him as a first - group invalid. Thus, according to the law, he needs to be given the disabled of the Great Homeland War and the corresponding benefits. But that doesn't work. The commission admitted that it had a disability resulting from military service. And according to the law, you have to write, "Disability, acquired as a result of general illness." Such a subjective decision by the commission is surprising, especially since the veteran was released from the army 40 years ago. What, then, is the disability resulting from military service? I believe, Your Honor, we have made adjustments to the law, and in the first reading it is adopted. The second language, as well as those involved in the fighting with Japan, will also be recognized. And our obligation, honourable national deputies, to make appropriate changes to the law is final. And, at the same time, I would like to give a protocol commission to the minister of health with a desire to study.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u134	Váchaslav Anisimov. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u135	Anisimov, 30 constituency, Dneprodžinsk town and Petrikovsky village district of Dnepropetrovsk district, Communist faction. Respectable colleagues, respected by Aleksandr Aleksevic, respected voters. The upcoming presidential elections seem to have removed all the miserable remnants of the constrictors of conscience and morality from our power. They seem to have gone into all kinds of troubles and scratches themselves like before they were destroyed. A typical example of an attempt to “receiv” the remnants of public property, including the beauty and pride of Soviet and national steel industry, is the combination of Krivorojstal, an enterprise that is potentially capable of giving almost half of the steel produced today in Ukraine. Sales, as always, at the expense of this metallurgical giant, will virtually complete the “black” privatization and enterprises that bring the lion's share of currency into the State Budget, will cease to work for the people and will work for an uncle who has nothing to do with the people before. What so-called effective owners are using essentially stolen enterprises from the people can be explained by the example of my native combination of the name of Djrjinsky in the city of Dneprodjyrnsk. Sold 20 times at its nominal cost, today it brings fabulous profits to its masters. I'm guessing about 700 million bracelets a year. In fact, the manager of the company, after receiving the combination for a year, earned the same amount of money to privatize it. The profitability of the combined production was 20 per cent. It's even higher now. That's what they're going to do in Crimson and Pavlogradugal. In addition, the Pavlogradogl case, the decision taken by the President of Ukraine is contrary to the Constitution, is not in his right to issue such decisions. With regard to Crimsonstalls, this enterprise generates billions of profits and is going to sell it literally for kopecks. Excuse me, gentlemen, but don't you have a thump? We, the communists, have already begun work on a reprivatization programme, and more specifically on the nationalization of enterprises in the community. We have a duty to return the stolen people. One will have a huge social impact, reduce unemployment, increase pensions, return stolen deposits. I'm sure the people of Ukraine will support the Communists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u136	Ivan Boki. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u137	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear compatriots! Dear voters! Dear parents, sisters! Yesterday, I got a call from the village of Petrovka in the Pritsky district of Chernigiv district, and I was asked, "What assholes have asked the President to ban the broadcast of the Supreme Council session?".. They say, "That was the only thing after the newspaper "The Village News" source where we could still hear the truth and hear those who lie and lie irreparably lie so that this lie can be seen very well?" I said who. Only, I'm saying, don't believe the signatures there: An anti-crisis center, journalism and so on. It's the Bank's own initiative, and they always find signatures. And you have rightly understood what is being done to prevent you from hearing the truth. And everything is now being done in Ukraine so that no one will hear the truth before the elections. The radio's closing, the newspaper's judging, the Supreme Council's mouth will be shut down, all of which is for you to vote for Kuchma-3. Whether it's Kuchma or Yanukovich or what, it's Kuchma-3. That's what this is all about. And I have to say that when I talked to the villagers, they got it right. The only thing they said was, "You tell me that in our village of a huge village team, there's only 10 people working, that we don't have any tail on the farm anymore, that we've only got pigs somewhere in the backyard, and we've got them on the market next to us in the Little Virgin, and they're so expensive: 30 bucks a pound. [[And it was a big farm.]] And so on. It is said that this will be true of reform, not that we are being lied to by some gentlemen from the presidential majority of the Supreme Council’s rostrum and on television, and their lying newspapers. And they asked for one more thing. They said our representative would definitely be at a rally to support the newspaper "Silly News" on May 25th at eight o'clock in the Mikhail Square for 30 minutes. And he asked for all the Ukrainian peasants to announce what we are waiting for, for all the Chinese, that we are waiting for you on May 25 at a rally to support the village newspaper "The Village News" under the walls of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, this is near the monument to Princess Olga. I think it's going to be the right thing to do, because people understand who they're judging. It's not the newspaper that's judging, it's the Ukraine itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u138	Valentina Seminouk. Get ready for Radion's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u139	Thank you. Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I support everything that Ivan Sidorovich Boki, a journalist with great experience, a true patriot of Ukraine, who is a correspondent of "The Village News," and he teaches all the truth that we bring to people on the newspapers of "The Village News." I think the citizens heard his speech and will attend the May 25th rally at 8: 30 a.m. with Princess Olga and we will express our position on the national newspaper. It's a national newspaper that the Fascists want to destroy today's authorities. I want to answer a number of calls from Ukrainian citizens who are calling the Socialist Party faction. They're asking why in the Supreme Council, socialists have raised questions about the privatisation of the Chrystals and the National Shareholder Insurance Company, Oranta. First of all, I want to respond to the Crimsonstall business, and it's not just the laborers who called on the Supreme Council deputies, especially the employees of the enterprise, the city council deputies, the district council deputies. We've received more than 37,000 signatures from the Supreme Council asking us to leave profitable businesses in the hands of the state. That is why we want these people to be protected, and that is why we have taken the initiative to protect this enterprise. The other one. In 1997 a bill was adopted in the session hall for the return of citizens’ savings. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz was the author. By this law, we have accepted the State’s commitment, regardless of the political power that will come to power, which political authority will come into the session hall, to make a commitment that citizens will be returned to their savings regardless of the period. This obligation is fixed by law. Returning insurance is also indicated by this law. There's a National Insurance Company called Oranta to carry out this mission. In the process of the Privatisation Act, the order of Janukovic, which is actually added to the additional issue, is passed on to President Pinchuku's son-in-law by an appropriate insurance company. And that means that 10 million citizens who have insured their lives, their material assets in this company are deprived of the right to return the insurance that they were, stolen the money that they invested in this company. This means that the State, not the State, but more faithfully, wants to eliminate the Law on the Return of Citizens’ Savings. By the way, this is the first prime minister to say that he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u140	Michaela Rodionov has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u141	Dear radio listeners, I want to return to the main event this week, the return of our soldiers from Iraq, which the Communists were trying to talk about, and it was all this time. Whether the Ukrainian forces in Iraq remain or whether they will be removed from Iraq depends, of course, on the Supreme Council, or on us, the Ukrainian national deputies. And people need to know about that, and know which of the national deputies to vote for sending a military contingent of Ukraine to Iraq have blessed the death of Ukrainian boys for the interests of foreigners to Ukraine. Today, even those who voted in favour of sending a military contingent to Iraq have the moral right to vote in favour of being recalled and urged by the Communists. But that didn't happen. And it didn't happen because she didn't vote on most of the people's deputies from "Our Ukraine." I'll give you those arguments that didn't happen. First. Weapons of mass destruction were not found in Iraq. The other one. The relationship with Al - Kaido, who had been accused of Hussein’s regime, was not confirmed. Third. The hope of Ukraine getting orders to rebuild Iraq, that is, what we had to destroy first and then rebuild, did not come true. Four. To earn a lot of money for participating in the Iraq War for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which the Ministry of Defence was counting on, did not fail. Fifth. There were no terrorist acts by Iraq prior to the occupation of their country. Thus, each of the national deputies could reasonably press the return button on Ukraine’s troops and, while thus, clear his conscience to the mothers of Ukraine, to whom the sons would never return. However, some national MPs, especially those who did not vote or vote in favour of the continued presence of troops in Iraq, said that their failure to vote in favour of the continued presence of troops in Iraq was such that it was usually difficult to count, but it was a fear that Ukraine would lose its favor or favor with the United States. Of course, all these arguments, if they can be called, are neither skins nor deeds, not to mention the tears of mothers who have lost their sons, some without the only ones because they have taken part in the occupation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-21-m0.u142	The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. From May 24th to May 28th, people's deputies work in constituencies. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on June 1, 2004.
