ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, let's register. [[16:03:28]] A total of 430 national deputies were registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, we must now accept a series of so - called organizational issues, what is involved with committee members, our comrades, our colleagues, and with the days of government, parliamentary hearings. So I'd like to ask: let's take a quick look at these questions and mobilely, because we've spent a lot of time with you on the core document that the Supreme Council accepts each year, it's about the budget. The draft decree is being followed: the election of the National Deputy Vasiliev as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. Registration number 5677. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u2	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, at the Committee's meeting on June 30, this year, a draft decree of the Supreme Council was introduced on this issue. And considering that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking has a calculated quota for the Ukrainian delegation's "Region of Ukraine" on almost three occasions, we now have seven representatives of the faction, the committee has decided not to support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u3	Yeah, no questions? Matvienkov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u4	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Valentin Grigoryevich, I understand the situation and the quantitative, so to speak, approaches to which. the Committee's decisions in general. But based on the fact that there should be people in each committee who are aware of certain matters, experts who have the essence of the matter, Vasilyev, as a representative of the tax service. As a person who knows, so to speak, this mechanism could probably be the most helpful and supportive of this committee to add professionalism to it. Well, we'll send him to the maternity committee today, assuming, and childhood. Do you think so? What would be more useful to him if he worked there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u5	Thank you, Your Honor Sergey Anatolyevich. But the Committee is not primarily guided by adding professionalism, we believe that all the committees of the Supreme Council are working professionally. That's a first. Second. The task of the Rules Committee is to monitor strict compliance with the rules. That is, in this case, to ensure strict representation of all factions and parliamentary groups on the Committees of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues! That's not what we agreed on. Then please sign in. Three minutes to ask. Please, three minutes. Yavorowski, followed by Bespalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u7	Vladimir Yavorowski. The honourable head of the committee! Dear reporter! I actually didn't have any specific questions, because I know how to vote in this case, but my colleague Matvienkov tried to explain that Vasiliev was very well aware of the tax system and said, "He knows this system very well." Maybe you can tell me what he meant by the system Vasiliev knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u8	Thank you. I think it's not for me, it's for our colleague, Sergei Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u9	Please, Bespalov. He's behind him, sonny. Right. Son of a bitch, please. Follow him, Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u10	Valentin Grigoryevich, well, if the faction insists that there be a representative. I think we should just suggest calling off one member of this faction, replacing it with another, if he's a very good specialist, and probably there won't be any questions after. That's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u11	Thank you. It is the right of the faction to decide on which of its representatives to work and on which of the parliamentary committees. But as you can see, there's going to be a lot of feedback. The fractional quota for today on the Supreme Council Committees of this faction, "Ukraine" I mean, it's 2.6, and today, this Committee on Finance and Banking has seven representatives of the "Ukraine Region" faction. I mean, at least five factions have to be called off to get another one to go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u12	Please. No! No! Uncle. We have one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u13	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u14	Andrew School's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u15	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. I'd like to ask, look, well, in principle, of course, it all decides the factions that delegate their deputies. Dear reporter, look, our committee doesn't have any representatives of the region of Ukraine. He is the brother of an outstanding prosecutor, an outstanding prosecutor who knows the law. I'd just like to come and work on our committee. Why is this committee proper? What is the motive? And I can't really understand the fact that committees are forming factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u16	Thank you. I repeat, to my honourable colleague, that it is the right of the faction to send its representatives to work on a committee, a parliamentary committee. And it determines where to make better use of the professional capabilities of the national MPs. factions. And as for a particular case, is it the right, in general, of the Supreme Council to determine whether to work for our colleague Vasiliev on this committee or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u17	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. I'm going to add to your statement that there is the right of every national MP given to him by the Constitution to choose the committee he likes. Yes, please have a seat. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I am voting on the decision to elect the National Deputy Vasiliev as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. Registration number for Bill 5677. Please vote. [[16:11:40]] For-170. The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to work with factions. You can go back to that question. The draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Leluk as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on regulations, parliamentary ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council is being followed. Registration number 6137. Reported to the chairman of the committee of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u18	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Yesterday at the committee meeting, a statement was made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leluk Oleksija Volodymyrovich, on his election as a member of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that Alexy Volodymyrovich was elected National Deputy on June 20th of this year in an interim election in the one-man election district of 151 Poltavian district and joined the faction of Ukraine. Considering that the calculated quota for the representation of the MP, this parliamentary faction in the Regulatory Committee is not fully used today, i.e. 2.6 quotas for each of the Supreme Council committees. Today, two representatives of this faction are working on our committee. That is why the committee decided to support the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine Leluk and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect him as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u19	Yes, I understand the situation. Shall we be clear? I then put to the vote a decree on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Leluk as a member of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:14:44]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. We're working on factions. There's a draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in November 2004. [[on the Health of Children in the Summer of 2004]] Registration number 6048. The head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u20	I'm very short. During the preparation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s decision to prepare for a health campaign in our country, a number of Ukrainian national deputies proposed that we not only consider the matter when it is already burning but, in summary, that we will be able to hear from the Ministry of Family, Children and Youth and make the appropriate decision and give a proper assessment of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter. That is why the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered this decree, which has been passed, but we are talking about strength. We are ready and the Ministry of Family Affairs and young people are ready to listen to this information in October, and we offer to spend the day of the government in October, and there will be two questions and one of them will be known by Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, and instead we suggest that we consider a question related to the recovery of children this summer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u21	Catherine Semenovna, after all, in November of the month?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u22	Adam Ivanovich, we made a deal yesterday. Stanislaw Ivanovich instead of October is conducting the government’s day in November, his committee. And I, we recorded in the transcript, and we're ready in October already, we already know the results of the recovery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u23	Yeah, any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes. Karmazin's behind him, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's constituency. Dear Catherine Semina, I know how much attention you pay to this question, but please tell me what is the point of listening to the question in November when the new president is due to form a new government. And when this government sells out today, you know that, sells out a health center, distributes everything to its people in sanitariums and so on? Perhaps you should listen to this question earlier? I don't want to politicize him in any way, but the government itself has politicized him, selling it all, realizing he's temporary. This question should have been heard by now, and I think we should plan maybe in the middle of the day, but based on the experience we had when we had to ensure that the government came here, that Janukovich was sitting here instead of securing the posting of his portraits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u25	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. As you know, children’s health centers are actually used as tuberculosis sanatoriums and children’s health clinics are passed on to the authorities, as the pioneer camps are passed on to all sects, I know that. But it was a proposal from the Ukrainian national deputies, including the faction of our Ukraine and other factions. And we're doing your job. I believe that the information needs to be heard, a decision needs to be made in order to eliminate shortcomings now and not to repeat similar hearings, a similar day for the government in the spring. All organizational matters need to be resolved early, life cannot stop, and we must resolve the matter today. There'll be a new president, but we're with you, and I think we'll find that no one's ever going to chase us down in our lives until our cadence is over. So let's do this in October.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u26	Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u27	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Catherine Simeonovna, perhaps there is no one else in this room who is doing more to raise these questions about children. They really deserved attention. But my colleague's statement earlier indicates that there is an attempt today to do not once more parliamentary hearings, not a government day, as you ask, but today requires a government here immediately, it will not be a government day, it will be a hypothetical prosecutor's day. We'll hear the shock again, we won't hear what we've done and we can do it again. One political force will try to deal with someone personally. So I think that this hearing needs to be transferred for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u28	It's not the hearing, it's the government's day. Secondly, if this is an accusation on my part, please excuse me, I always celebrate and, by the way, thanks to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and thanks to our control, we have taken very many steps forward in the recovery of children. But I really do oppose hearing today for political reasons, but this is a special issue. And I'm asking you very much, Your Honor, a day of government with this order of the day. Look, we're holding parliamentary hearings about the declaration, and I specifically planned for November of the month when we're out of political special battalions. But this question needs to be heard. Please vote in October of the month. I went to the Supreme Council! It's a simple trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u29	Thank you. Sit down, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u30	But I ask you all to vote in favour of the government's day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, I'll just remind you that there are elections to be made, or elections to be held, according to our standard, we have to spend a government day every month in our law. So let's not politicize questions. Moreover, I think that the issues related to the recovery of children are probably less political than the questions that may stand. I'm voting on the Ukrainian government's decision in October 2004, I stress, in October, because we already voted on November yesterday, on the summation of children's recovery in the summer of 2004. Please vote. [[16:22:58]] For 255 Decision taken. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 96, Ukrainian regions - 9, Communists - 55, Social Democrats and Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, Socialists - 18, Block Timoshenko - 12, Union - 0, Ukraine - 6, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 9, Center - 13, Democratic Initiatives and the People's Government - 10, non-fractional - 7. The Law on Parliamentary Hearings “Ensures the Rights of Children in Ukraine ” is being followed. Protection of maternity and childhood.” [[in October 2004]] Registration number 5734. Polish, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The quality of social life depends largely on ensuring the rights of the child’s population and their social protection. The realization of the fundamental rights of the child in our country, such as the right to life and health, is not properly ensured. The real guarantees of the State to ensure the realization of these rights have been replaced by measures of a formal nature. The meager state aid provided to families with children does not meet the basic needs for the child’s normal development and is much lower than the subsistence minimum. A family with at least one child up to three years of age is one and a half times more likely to suffer from poverty, which, in turn, has a negative impact on the child’s accessibility, normal nutrition, recovery, rest, education, and other negative impacts on the standard of living in general. The decline in living standards has particularly hurt many families. The average size of a multi - child family is six, and the average number of children is 3.4. At the same time, a large family is composed of only one and a half workers. Thus, one working member of a multi - child family is to provide three more members of his or her family. The income and expenditure of multi-child families differ greatly from that of the mid - Ukrainians, both in size and in structure. The Ukrainian Parliament needs to ensure that important laws are adopted to promote the protection of the rights of motherhood and childhood and to improve their social protection. The state aid available today at the birth of a child with two living minimums cannot compensate parents for even the minimal costs associated with the event. There is a need to increase the amount of government material aid in the birth of a child that is expected to have a positive impact on the level of birth, since today we are losing 400,000 more people than we are born to. Such questions need to be addressed by granting a single mother the right to an annual additional paid leave of seven calendar days, taking into account that this is the right of parents who are raising a child without a mother. In addition, the issue of the elimination of the gap between some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Family Code and the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children should be dealt with legislatively. In particular, by conforming to the Ukrainian Family Code, according to which an orphan child can be adopted not only by a married person or a single person but also by one of the spouses, i.e. a single adoptive parent. It is also necessary to clarify that a single adoptive woman, a man who adopted an orphan child while married, has the right to receive the aid set up for single mothers. A solution is needed to address the issue of dealing with the management of children’s property in greater social protection. The decisions of some of the above-mentioned legal and social protection issues for families with children have been reflected in the relevant bills submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Regrettably, many of these very important bills are being postponed. Obviously, the need to discuss the above questions at the parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council has come to light. An analysis of the socio-economic situation with children shows that the branches of government should focus on building an effective system of state support in legal and social protection. I ask the people's deputies to support the holding of such parliamentary hearings. And I ask that we do this in October of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u33	Oh, no. You still had time. I don't know why you turned it off. Please finish your thought is the first. Mikola Efremovich. Oh, you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u34	I'm done. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u35	I see you're looking at the monitor all the time. You're looking at a clock that shows time. Looking at the rostrum, you can look on the sides, of course. But if it's the girls on the side, Mikola Efremovich. Yes. There's a question. Sign up. Please ask a lot of questions. But three minutes. Sobolev, behind him, Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u36	Tell Teryohin. Would you pass Teriochina on, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u37	Teryohin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Reporter, please tell me that today a draft amnesty has been introduced in the Supreme Council, the Amnesty Act, where it is written by Yanukovich, signed, where it is written that the people who raped children should be amnesty. Tell me, please, how does this law correspond to that ideology, that morality of what you are now reporting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u39	I would like to say not only as a national MP, but as a doctor who has very often faced situations that you say today are not compatible with any ethics. And those who commit such crimes, namely, violence against children, cannot be amnesty under any circumstances, nor can there be any mitigating reason for their amnesty. I'm going to say this is definitely what could be the highest crime that could be in a society today in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, let's not waste time. Anyway, we're going to be looking at any law here, including amnesty, and then we're going to be determining, and now we're going to be looking at a completely different question. Please, Frost. He's been followed by the Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Ponomarenko Georgiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u42	Ponomarenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u43	Adam Ivanovich, I'm more likely to follow procedure. Look at the order of the day: 5 parliamentary hearings in October. I understand that cinematographers and culture and movement and media work, and children are all important, we're going to spend two hours now to, we're going to be able to figure out what one of five is. Let's have a rating vote and who gets more votes, then let's figure out not to turn parliamentary hearings into things they don't listen to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u44	Yes. I'll answer later. Please, Shurpa.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u45	Igor Shurpa, faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine united. Dear Mikola Efremovich, I support the point of view of the previous speaker, and I say we just want to talk to the Supreme Council. But the question is, over the past year, we had a number of parliamentary hearings, your desire and the desire of the Committee to draw the attention of government and society to health problems. And today, perhaps it is appropriate to listen to the issue of child rights in Ukraine, the protection of motherhood and childhood. Please tell me, what is the effectiveness of carrying out the rulings of past parliamentary hearings to organizations that we all have, including you, have had a touch? Please tell me if these decisions are being implemented: do you need to be made, do you need to be selected, do you need to, do you need to, do you need to? Would it not be the same as this decree, which would be after these hearings if they were to take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u46	Thank you, Igor Mihajlovich, I am very grateful that you have highlighted the relevance of the issues and I am very grateful that you have shown along with the fact that today's current Government does not comply with those decisions that are often made by the Supreme Council. But I still hope that there will be a time when the Supreme Council will have to comply. And in particular, I would like to say here, from this rostrum, that some of the decisions regarding tuberculosis are partially implemented in relation to oncosal diseases. At the same time, the decision on cardiovascular and vascular diseases, which account for 63.2 percent of deaths, is completely out of the budget today, for which we have voted so successfully today that we can continue to work on it. So, Igor Mikhailovich, I hope that the government should listen to the Supreme Council's opinion, and the Supreme Council should still raise the issue of motherhood and childhood protection in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u47	Thank you, mate. Have a seat, please. There were questions. In fact, the honourable colleagues, and you see, we have this practice, unfortunately, to continue. I can understand and understand the committee. Each of them wants to hold parliamentary hearings, not one, but several. Everyone's planning this, and this is the right of legislative initiative, national MPs. They have the right to take such an initiative. But in practice we see very well with you and realize that if we go to more than two questions to be listened to, whether on Government Day or at parliamentary hearings, it doesn't turn into a completely effective job at all. That's one thing. And the second is that we usually hold parliamentary hearings with you on just one issue of the agenda, because it's the different people that have to be invited to the session hall, because it's not just the people's MPs, but usually we want to hold parliamentary hearings to listen, not to the national MPs, but to those who have a direct attitude to a particular problem. I would like to ask the committees to plan more parliamentary hearings not in general, not in the session room, but in committee hearings that some committees are holding, and quite effectively and more. But there is the right of legislative initiative, so we will be determined. I am voting on the decision to hold parliamentary hearings, to ensure the rights of children in Ukraine, and to protect motherhood and childhood for October 2004. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:36:03]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 94, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 15, SPU - 18, Block Timoshenko - 16, “Soyuz” - 0, “Ukraine” - 6, NDP and SPTU - 12, “Centre” - 13, “Deminiciatives” and “The People’s Government” - 3, “Affective 9. There is a draft decree to hold parliamentary hearings in November 2004 on the situation of young people in Ukraine, registration number 5679. Reported the chairman of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Science, Sports, and Tourism, Katerina Seminovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u48	Adam Ivanovich, will you allow me from the previous question literally a replica? Well, I'm asking you to sit down as deputy minister, well, let's take this question to December, it's right. First considered in the Supreme Council. Well, even though we're going to take that question to December, it's actually the right thing to do. I'd like him to express his point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u49	Yes, dear colleagues, it's not the Ministry, it's not Catherine Seminevna, it's the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u50	I'm sorry, really, as a national MP, I've come to you. Dear colleagues, you know that according to the 1992 Declaration on the General Principles of State Youth Policy in Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are annual parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people, as well as the preparation of an annual report on this issue to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. According to the Declaration, the committee sent an appropriate proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but more detailed the question: not just "the position of young people" but the order of the day of these hearings, taking into account the real problems that have not yet been discussed at the hearings, and taking into account the relevant proposals of youth social organizations, executive authorities in the field of youth policy, we propose to define the following topic: "The Ukrainian rural youth: the state, problems and ways of solving them." We propose to hold a hearing on November 24, 2004. Please support, make a decision as a whole. And this is really a very urgent question for rural youth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u51	Any questions? Please sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Bondarenko. He's behind him, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u52	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me that the issue just voted is no less relevant, no less important — it was about children and their health. And one day, a faction of Communists must have forgotten to press the buttons. I suspect that this is being done consciously, not to look at the problem, but to have some time for pianists during the electoral period. I would like to put these questions together. We all voted in favour of your previous offer, the whole faction, 96 people, except for those who are missing. Why didn’t you support the question before, since it was related? Young people and children are one complex. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u53	Vladimir Dmitrovitch, well, we've expressed our position in a speech by the honourable MP Ponomarenko, who suggested that there are three, and you should know that there are only two questions. Yeah? Oh, five even. And we've proposed, let's vote, and then we'll make our final decision. We're not giving up this position right now, we're voting. We asked you to consider it. As for the parliamentary readings that I'm proposing, it's for November, and I knew that there's really going to be big politics in October, and that's why I'm taking this question, committee, for November, even though I realize that there's no more political issue than employment, there's no education for young people in the country today in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u54	Please, Hinzburg. Behind her, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u55	Dear Catherine of Simeon! Hinzburg, Communist faction. These days I had to work in the Putov district, and somehow it was so close that 22 numbers, it was Partisan Glory Day in Putovli, and it was a celebration on the Summit. And there's this village of New Liberty. Maybe someone didn't hear, so I want them to hear all of our Ukrainians, that's the other Hutin. This was when in 1942 580 people, including young and young children, were cut out of the whole street in this large village. And today it's such a big tragedy. The moral spirit in this village and these people are brought up by Soviet authority. I want to say something. Ukraine’s rural youth, her condition. this general question that you're talking about and there are a lot of problems in this village. For example, they make their way to the monastery, where all the cool and twisted ones go. And there is a young woman with a child with disabilities and a disabled person. This road will be flooded, and the house and the barn will be flooded. And for four months now, she's been fighting, she can't go anywhere. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u56	Well, that's more of your speech than your question, Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u57	This is your support. Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u58	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Catherine Seed, I'm certainly tired, but I'm going to repeat that what you're doing is a great contribution to young people and to trying to do something. But Catherine Semenovna, let's look objectively. November 24th. This will be two days from the end of the second round of presidential races. Will we be able to gather interested persons in this session hall on November 24 and really raise this question to the right level to make a profit? Maybe there's a point to moving it for at least two weeks in December, then it would seem relevant to me. That is, as my colleagues on the left flank say, it's just in time. I do not want to burden some new people with needless problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u59	You see, problems still remain. Anyway, there's going to be a situation for young people in rural areas, a recommendation or an old one, so if you'll excuse me, I'll talk to the new president, the Supreme Council will take it anyway. We'll get together. We were chosen by the people to work until 2006. And I'm telling you, every time there's a hearing of young people, there's no openings, because the vast majority of them are just young people. And I'm asking you to support your faction and the Hard Ukraine. Life is coming, and the people have given us a mandate by 2006, and we must justify it among the people, and so I ask you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u60	Sit down, Catherine Seed. Dear colleagues! I'm gonna say it again. Let us not associate with the election. We have our work regulations, and we can hold parliamentary hearings and Government Days every month. What's more, you see, here's a November 24 proposal. Some candidates claim so. It's not like there'll be any second tour, it'll all be decided on October 31st. What we're going through as far as November 24th, if the second tour is going to be, it's going to be November 21st. Let us move away from the general theme that concerns us, of course, all of us this year, and we will live the life of the state. I put to the vote the Order on 24 November 2004 on parliamentary hearings on the situation of rural youth, i.e. in an editorial in the committee's proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:45:54]] For 104 The decision is not taken. There's a project called Parliamentary Hearing, Cultural Policy in Ukraine: Priorities, Principles and Ways of Implementation in October of this year, registration number 5643. As told by the First Vice - Chief of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Mojcan Paul Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich and distinguished colleagues! First, I turn to the Communist faction, going back to two unvoted topics that have not been understood. It seems to me that all the problems brought to the discussion today are important. That's why, Adam Ivanovich, I propose, including my proposal for cultural policy, which was approved by the committee, to vote in a package. Because it's all about parliamentary hearings. I don't know any small questions. And including cultural politics in Ukraine. If we think about the state of Ukrainian culture today, there was no more shameful period. You know the state of Ukrainian theaters, you know the state of the Ukrainian cinema, the state of the museum. This is a whole set of problems that require sounding and an objective assessment of the state of the cultural sphere in Ukraine. At the previous hearings, we always focused attention, understanding, forming all the necessary documents that contributed to the formation of the national budget for a given year, and we shaped priorities that applied to the activities of the executive branch, including the local authorities. And that's why, based on the urgency of adopting these topics in the complex, including cultural politics. I'm not going to prove and read an explanatory note, because anyone can see that we're in a swamp of spiritlessness, immorality, which we've talked about before our hearings. We can take any period of our society, even post-war times, produce a national product, cinematography, come out a Ukrainian book, function Ukrainian theaters, I personally learned a great deal of high music, visiting the free estrations that were in Kiev. When I was still studying the NEO, whether in technology or in the institute, I joined great art, and these were sources that weren't closed. Today's the day. Okay. Support me. Support what is important, not for a separate party, but for a national one. And that's why I urge you, Adam Ivanovich, to vote first, second, third and fourth paragraphs on Ukrainian cinema.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u62	Paul Mikhailovich, we are voting right now. We'll vote to the end, we'll see. No questions? Yes. Please sign up. Please, three minutes. Put a light on the board. Kosov. He's behind him, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u63	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Paul Mikhailovich, your proposal to unify all these questions into one package is very appropriate, but do you not consider it possible to offer the catch and such. For example, the already-voted question of children, the healing of children, the second question of ensuring the rights of children to be united in one parliamentary hearing, and we could be able to speak these questions in one day, as well as your first one that you have just reported on the culture and the second question of the status of the cinematographer also to unite into one, to vote all problems but to vote them in a package. If that were possible, there would be a way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u64	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for your offer. Then we can make reports on individual issues at these parliamentary hearings and on the first question, in terms of the second, third and fourth questions. Thank you. They will be united but separate reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u65	Please, Hinzburg, follow her, Spodarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u66	Dear Paul Mikhailovich, I would like to hear from you so much that you say, "Here in Soviet times, such educational work, the ideological work was on a high level and the rich were raised by the spirit." I would like to see people today who are not just going for money, but they are looking for something spiritual for themselves. I want to tell you, but I'll tell you tomorrow in my speech in different ways. I had to be at the Sofia Monastery yesterday, and we did our election work at the monastery. And when we encountered this, as you said, innocuousness in the holy city, it was very painful and you can't even find something sacred in the monastery. I want to tell you that we should all be determined today to accept or support its execution, not only by accepting it but also by doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Olu. I can only say one thing that was shameful in the history of Ukraine when delusions even held the keys to temples in their pockets. You know how this ended. Then, when they held the keys to the churches, when they imposed their will, their order, it all ended with the Collitime. Thus, we have our parliamentary hearings, and that is why we deliver so as not to cause social tension and to solve these problems in a timely manner. To that end, this democratic body was formed in order to resolve democratically the subjects of today’s society. Because we all know, we don't need it, it's not an advertising platform that's going to run the campaign for our candidate. How far does culture go? How Is Culture Stealing? What's her condition? So are social problems. They're standing on the same plane. And you don't have to convince each other. That is why I agree with Michael Vaslovich Kossov’s proposal that we unite and thus save. As for the formation of the spiritual environment in which we were formed. Undoubtedly, the ideological moments there were clearly arranged, but there was a proper procedure and the filling and facilitating of all branches of power so that the culture was at a very high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u68	Please, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, I am part of that generation that at one time, in the 1960s, at the university studied a further cinematography course. And of course, I am ready to support Paul Mikhailovich in the sense that this problem needs to be discussed separately, taking into account the situation in the Ukrainian film. But I think, unfortunately, we have such conditions of parliamentary work right now, that it's going to be very difficult to compress a movie, let's say, into a separate discussion. So I support bringing this together on one issue -- in discussing the development of Ukrainian culture, with the co-reports on these issues. But still, I think that for the future we're not going to be avoiding Ukrainian film because, unfortunately, this is the situation in this area that needs our intervention at a high state level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u70	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. I'll say one sentence. There was a committee meeting at the National Studio by name. A long one that turns into a museum reserve is one where a cinematographer dies. If you look carefully at the budget next year, where 17 million were allocated. In order to maintain all infrastructure, it takes at least today's taxes on everything that exists need at least 18 million. To make progress, it takes 25 million. Look, and you'll see how the funds are distributed in the Ministry of Culture. You'll see, both on the national cinema and on the museum business, there's cash. Russia made huge injections in time. Today, the Russian cinematographer has the world’s leading positions. We eat this product every night, every night. Today, the expansion of the Russian book is well - known because there were five laws that polished the Russian book. We should have been informed, he wouldn't let us, you know, his veto president. We beat him. But prices rose today for all the goods, and they immediately jumped on paper. Once again, the book of Ukraine is kept in such a state. And the same could happen to the cinematographer if we don't correct the situation today because the Yaltine Studio sold, the Odessa Studio is frozen, we're losing all objects. And we're going to lose the National Film Studio by them. It's a rainbow. That is why I insist that this issue is not tolerated, and that is why I agree to a solution to our cultural problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u71	Thank you. Paul Mikhailovich, well, do you think you've made two decisions? Thank you. Then we'll put them in such a hurry to vote. I put to the vote the ruling on parliamentary hearings "Cultural Policy in Ukraine: Priorities, Principles and Ways of Implementation on October 6th this year, registration number 5643. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:57:20]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 81, "Regions of Ukraine", Communists, Social Democrats, "Trust Ukraine", National Agrarian Party - Zeros, Socialists - 17, Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz", "Only Ukraine" - Zeros, NDPs, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 4, "Centre" - 7, "Deminiciates - People's Government" - 0, "Postfactional" - 3. I'm voting on the Parliamentary Hearings Order "On the Status of the National Cinematographer and the Ways of Overcoming Crisis in This Area," in October 2004, it's planned to hold these hearings, registration number 5709. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:58:32]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The next question is Kravchenko is shooting. The draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The media activity in the 2004 election of the President of Ukraine, legal principles and practices" is scheduled to hear this question in October 2004. Registration number 6080. Reports the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, unlike my previous colleagues representing the committees, this is a different situation. This is the question that needs to be heard in October, because there is now a whole range of conflicting and controversial problems with how institutions that ensure the electoral process and the media work in the electoral process appeal to us, to the Supreme Council, based on the fact that the rules of law that provide for media activity are ambiguous, controversial and therefore not the Central Election Commission, otherwise the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, in another State Committee on Television and Radio Communication cannot or will not do so. Among the problems that we need to address and we've discussed in the committee, our proposal is to conduct this in a constructive manner to listen to the Central Election Commission, the National Council on Television and Radio, the State Committee on Television and Broadcasting, so that they can find a way out of the situation here in the session room with us. What is it? First. We have mandatory TV debates for presidential candidates on the 1st and 2nd rounds. So far, the CBC, along with the National Television Company, has been unable to explain how and how to conduct them. Today, all presidential candidates are waiting for the format of these television debates and no one is doing them. What's the formula, what's the procedure for comparing positions and what's the other thing? There is a problem today with the interpretation of a number of rules relating to the placement of political advertising, since, you know, the Central Election Commission does not actually consider these issues and considers them to be ambiguously prescribed in legislation. There's a problem that you know about external advertising, where unfortunately, the law doesn't directly explain how to act on political advertising on boards and so far the Central Election Commission can't analyse, let's say, how to finance how this political advertisement is located, whether it is responsible for its content or not. The next serious problem that requires the same emphasis on "a" is the relationship between the disclosure of the activities of officials who are candidates for the Presidents, the limits on the disclosure of activities and the pre-election campaign. You know that the Central Election Commission, referring to the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, has refused to carry out a series of warnings from our law, which provided that information on the activities of the official, such as the Prime Minister and the activities of the candidate for presidents, should be clearly distinguished. The law explains this to a large extent, but it is essential that we focus on both members of the CLTC, and that the President's Election Act is essentially a decisive law, and the reference to the Law on the Enlightenment of State Authorities is important, but secondary, law. So we need to be very clear when in the media we are looking at big material about officials, when they are both presidential candidates, there is a warning about this kind of disclosure. There's a bunch of disturbing information that, of course, Parliament had to put dots over "and," that's an attempt by law enforcement agencies to intervene in the media. You know that there is the position of the Supreme Council, and there is the position of the President on the moratorium on the verification of the media. Regrettably, today we have reason to say that the local tax administration, elsewhere, is trying to check the media, see what is written there, what is printed and so forth. Today, about twenty complaints from various presidential candidates have been filed with the committee about police stopping cars with printed copies of literature and trying to find out who was there printing, what the newspaper said was directly in conflict with the President's Elections Act. So the focus for law enforcement is that they have to read newspapers like citizens, not stop cars and not throw out circulation, it's also very important. So once again, this is the overall position of the absolute majority of candidates to the presidents who have asked the committee to place emphasis and get out of those colleges that have arisen today in the relationship between the CTC, Derteradio, the National Council on Television and Broadcasting and the Supreme Court, to the point that today requires the CBC to deal with media complaints essentially. So I'd like to support this and discuss it and find a way out of those difficult situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u73	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. In fact, you've already held parliamentary hearings, told them everything. Yes, have a seat, please. Let's be clear. The question is, everything is clear. Hey, there. I put to the vote the Order on Parliamentary Hearings on Media Action in the 2004 Presidential Elections. Legal principles and practice," registration number of the decree is 6080. Please vote. [[17:05:17]] For 171 Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" is 94, "Regions of Ukraine", Communists, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" is 0, National Agrarian Party is 8, Socialist Party is 14, Block Timoshenko is 19, Alliance, "One Ukraine" is 0, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" 13, "Centre" is 12, "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government" is 0, non-fractional is 11. Follows the Order on Parliamentary Hearings on Judicial Reform in Ukraine on December 8th of this year. Report to the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy on Onopenko. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. Registration 605. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This draft was introduced by the Legal Policy Committee signed by Vasil Fedorovich Sirenko, Mikola Onichuk, Yuri Karmazin, Viktor Musiak, Sergey Slabenko, and other members of the committee. We are asking this question again because in February this year, unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not support the draft ruling on parliamentary hearings regarding judicial reform. I think it's too much to say in this room that the work of the courts is extremely important in terms of protection and physical persons and legal persons. In recent years, the number of civil, criminal, administrative cases has been increasing. If in 2003 the courts had considered 5 million, think about it, 800,000 is 18 percent more than in 2002, and in a few years, the actual number of cases had increased in two. At the same time, one third of the courts are in inadequate premises and it's very difficult to do justice. But the problem is, not even that. There are many complaints about the courts today, about the activities of the courts, that there are certain omissions in the work of the courts, but it is easier to complain than to deal with the situation. Why is the ship’s car intoxicating today? But they say to the people, "What's in the cauldron is in the cauldron." Because today, there is no ideal government mechanism that works clearly. I would say that the courts, at all, work less clearly with all these shortcomings. Because the open trial, there's the prosecutor, there's the lawyer, there's the defendant, there's the defendant, there's the parties, there's the experts, there's the experts. A transparent process, a decision can be challenged all the way to the Supreme Court. But we, especially in the Committee on Legal Policy, see shortcomings in the work of the courts. This is also subjective and objective, so we would like to have a court hearing on December 8, just in December. This is also necessary for the committee to finish its work on basic codes, which are needed not only by the judicial system, but primarily by Ukrainian citizens. Since January 1st, the Civil Procedural Code, the Criminal Procedural Code, the Economic and Processual, the Administrative and Procedural Committee has practically completed its work. Now, just today, the session of the Supreme Council was adopted in the first reading of the Administrative Procedure Code. But that is not all. We need to bind procedural legislation with our system of courts. We're not clear yet, do we need a higher civil court and a higher criminal court today? Because there are 20,000 civil cases in the Civil Court today, and these cases have been piled up for years. So it's not the Supreme Court's fault, it's the imperfection of our trial, the imperfection of the judicial system. I am grateful to my colleagues on the committee for making suggestions and changes to the Law on the Courtship. And you're making these proposals. Today, more than 20 laws on the judiciary are being considered in the committee, more than 10 bills on the Law on the Status of Judges. We're finishing our work on the Law on Lawyers, the Public Prosecutor's Office. So I would like to draw your attention to this question being addressed in the December 8th complex this year. The committee has exhausted its capabilities. For the first time, I want to draw your attention, for the first time, we're bringing this matter to the Supreme Council. About a year ago, we had several committee hearings. Today, I believe, without your help, without the help of the judges of the local courts, the appeals, the higher specialized courts and the Supreme Court, without a frank discussion in this room and making the appropriate decisions afterwards, it is simply a matter of national security and the need for our state and society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u75	Any questions? You don't? Dear colleagues, please focus. The only thing I would ask is not to take it as Vasil Vasilovich said there would be a court hearing. There will be parliamentary hearings from the problems of judicial reform. Maybe he's the one who scared you that they're going to come and try us. Therefore, given the amendment that Vasil Vasilovich agrees with, I am voting on the Parliamentary Hearing Order on Judicial Reform in Ukraine. They are scheduled to be held on December 8, 2004, with the new President. Registration number 605. Please vote. [[17:12:10]] For 248 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, by factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 85, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 58, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" - Zero, National Agrarian Party - 19, Socialists - 20, Timoshenko - 19, "The Union", "One Ukraine" - Zero, NDP, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs - 15, "Centre" - 14, "Dem. Initiatives. People's power is 6, non-fractional is 10. Dear colleagues, I think you should work with the committees, the factions among yourselves, explain the situation with regard to issues that we did not support at parliamentary hearings. It is not excluded that we may consider these questions again on the Conciliation Board and will seek compromise if there is no objection. Compromise. Paul Mikhailovich, I am in charge of uniting, but as we unite, it will be nothing, for we will reduce 10 questions and listen to nothing. Or we'll listen to everything, and we'll never figure it out. Let's do one thing at a time-- everything's going to be okay. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", article 4.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the protocol of the General Assembly of National Deputies of Ukraine of 22 September 2004 I inform of the formation of the Democratic Initiative Group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, understand what it's called "Democratic Initiatives." The Democratic Initiative Group is composed of 14 Ukrainian national deputies. Head of the Democratic Initiative faction. Maybe "groups" anyway, because factions, excuse me, are party property. So the head of the Democratic Initiatives Group was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gavrís Stepan Bogdanović. Authorized representatives of the Ukrainian National Deputies Bandurku Alexander Markovich, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich, Sváš Dmitr Volodymyrovich, Igor Josipovich, and David’s Ludmila Ivanovna. Gender policy is primordial, you see, women are in charge. A woman for guidance. Yeah, let's move on. Dear colleagues, we should be hearing with you now a draft law, or more specifically, laws on the law, social and other guarantees of the President of Ukraine, which has ceased to exercise his powers. The authors of the Desert Tenko, Sharov and Teryohin projects. But in view of the fact that there are no reporters except Teryochin. Please turn it on, please. . Teriochina, turn the microphone on, don't make any noise, because I can't hear you, in that case.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u76	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! In order to have pluralism, I'm sorry, I think, too, I agree that in view of the fact that Desertacco was afraid to pass such a law, due to the fact that Sharov probably took off because he proposed by law to release the former president from any kind of legal responsibility, including theft, there would be murder and so on. So I agree that let's move all three laws to the next plenary session and see where there are people and how they protect them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, once again I ask you not to shout! For you don't hear one another; it doesn't hinder you, because you hear yourself, but none of you hear me, and you feel worse, because I don't know what you want. So please put your hands down, click on the buttons, write down this question for three minutes. And tell them to hear you. And while the recording is coming up, I'd like to take one moment to count, dear colleagues. You know, yesterday, or when, two days ago, we were talking about creating a group, more loyally, the factions of "The One Ukraine," and there were also talking about Bandurka Alexander Markovich being one of the representatives of this faction. He's in the Democratic Initiative group today. So I asked that we don't have it. So clearly according to the Rules, I asked Alexander Markovich to finally determine where he was. Please turn on the screen. Three minutes. A miner. He's behind him, Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the question is very important. Presidential elections are coming, of course, and everyone is concerned about the President's fate after them. In addition to Teryochin, there is another author, Deputy Noshchenko. I think there's good reason to consider this bill to put all the dots above the "and," especially since there are conclusions from the profiling committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u79	Please, Mikola Petrovich Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, there is a request, after all, when the announcement is made, the author of Sharov-Noshchenko. What, paper's not enough to write? This is the first time. It's different. The previous speaker spoke or did not read our bill and began. Well, let's go ahead and mutilate what it says. There's no such thing as murder or anything. There's no such thing. And finally. We've analyzed the bills that have been passed, and we think that most of the provisions of our bill are already included in the Desertwater Bill, and we've withdrawn our bill. I don't know why they didn't. They distributed it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, no. Mikola Petrovich, don't be offended that there aren't two names. They always write who reports. In this case, Sharov was to report. But there are two names in the bill, and each of these projects is given out, so no one takes your authority. Yes, please, Kalinczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u82	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I absolutely agree with Sergei Anatoliovich, I agree with those MPs who say that if there is no author, the author is the main one, and we have three bills here, why should we insist on looking without them. Well, it's kind of unattractive, if not immoral. That's why I think it's the right thing to do -- to move and consider these bills, and at that time they might still be working on it, and it'll be one bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u83	Please, Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u84	Adam Ivanovich, why are we so coaxing each other? We agreed, it's all right, you announced, I'm asking you to look now, and my countryman Karnauh will say everything for the time that is left.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u85	Talk to Karnauh. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u86	Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the question is included in the agenda and, therefore, it is necessary to vote on its removal in order to remove it. The committee considered, and the reporters are both from the committees and from the subjects, so I insist. And in fact, the President doesn't need any guarantees, and he has to be equal before the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! You're telling it all right. But there are no reports of these bills. I'll say it again. There are three bills. There's no hermitage. Sharov, Noshchenko is refused. Who in the interest of violating the rules of the Rules today is to consider only one bill, I ask you to identify yourself. Terohina's bill, please be determined. [[17:22:03]] For-33 The decision is not taken. So, please. The draft Law on Amendments to Chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, Bill No. 2353, is being complied with. [[second reading]] Porcelain Peter Alexiovich. Yes, is there a Prashenko to report the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u88	Sit down, please. Dear colleagues! Sit down! Sit down! Everything's gonna be okay now. Sit down! Dear colleagues, please. Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear colleagues, please sit down. If you want to demonstrate that Parliament doesn't work, that's what they're waiting for. That's how they expect you to do it! Please don't give in to provocation. We usually do. Dear colleagues, calm down! We are usually respected colleagues! When there's no reporter, when he's gone. I'm asking you to listen! When he informs, honourable colleagues, but we need to consider all the bills, we can't do it individually, because then we have to not make decisions, we have to consider other bills and then we have to make decisions. I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's continue our work. I would ask the author not to insist. You understand what you're going to lead to. We can put it to a vote, you know, to look at the draft law, it doesn't get the required number of votes. The vote has already been put to the vote. Please, don't. I ask once again, don't give me any reason, Adam Ivanovich, I say, don't let me accuse Parliament of not being viable. Yuri Anatolyevich, listen. I'm asking you! I'm asking you, dear colleagues. We'll take it and we'll take it. Well, listen! Please! Stepan Ilkovich, please. Dear colleagues, don't create a problem in a bare place. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Please, please. We'll take a look. Respectable colleagues, well, don't give in to small things. It's an unscrupulous question right now, please get some sleep. Please, I beg of you. Dear colleagues, we have now come to the point: the draft Act amending chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the second reading of the procedure, please write down three minutes of the procedure, for consideration of this bill. I'm asking you, Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u89	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think that perhaps the leadership of the Supreme Council should find out to the President whether he deserves this Law, he lived for 10 years without guarantees, so this is the last month left, he doesn't need it, and we won't just waste time on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u90	Yes, Santa's Nightingale, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Nightshenko. 160th constituency, Labour Ukraine. Two days ago, we officially, the national deputy of Sharov, Noshchenko, officially filed a letter that we had removed our bill on the ground, and for some reason it went into the order of the day, and I'm twice speaking, but the head of the congregations today again clearly does not say that the bill has been withdrawn and something has been refused. I think it's not the right thing to do today to tell the electorate the right thing to do, to let them know that the bill has been withdrawn, not that we're refusing to report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I think we've put in the right place this bill, which you are the author of. Since the Conciliation Council, when we formed the meeting schedule, did not say a word about what had been removed. This morning, I received a letter signed by the people's deputies, the authors of the projects, which, motivated by the fact that their project is practically in line with the draft law, the author of which is Desert Tenko, they recommend not to consider their bill. So, your honor, at the right time, we're going to do everything, there's no inadequacy here. Please calm down. But we are always, when there's no drafter, and we can't look at each other the next day, because we can't make decisions, we have to make decisions on both draft laws. And now we have an agreement with you not to make politics out of this. Please support me in this. Please, instead of Winsky Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u93	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me disagree with you. This question of voting guarantees to the President is highly political. And the fact that most of the Presidents are now blocking the work of the Supreme Council is not voting in favour of the Bills, and so you are, and Adam Ivanovich, I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich, that you're the one who's beginning to raise the issue of this in the Supreme Council, because you know, if the matter is being considered in the Supreme Council, it's not possible to put it on this session anymore. And the President would retire without guarantees. And what the Presidency is trying to do right now is to put the question to a vote and take it down until most of the president thinks again, and thus extend the guarantees to President Kuchmi. And we still have to consider this question today. Take it down, reject it forever, and he'll be a normal person, answer to the law, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u94	Time's up. We exchanged thoughts. Once again, dear colleagues, we have done the right thing, the right thing. And as for the position of the President, I know that the President said that I was not interested in guarantees, in the bill. But we should consider everything in accordance with the Rules and Procedures. Yes, calm down, dear fellows! I've already asked you, dear fellows! Please, I can put it to a vote -- who's in charge of reviewing this bill? Well, he won't get the required number of votes. You don't have to! Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Are we ready to consider this bill? Please, Assadchev from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u95	Dear friends! Valerius Assadchev, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Don't worry, the budget committee authors. The essence of this bill is purely budgetary, and it's now that the field obstetric points, so called FAPs, are financed by rural budgets. Regrettably, the nature of this funding is that rural budgets are virtually all limited. Moreover, they are also different, so to speak, with their financial power. And this actually led to the closing of the FAPs today. On the other hand, as experience has shown, it is much better to finance it from the district budgets and not from the FAP itself, but from the entire medical complex that exists at the district level. So this is a district hospital and it's joined by the FAPs. This complex is much better financed. The Committee on Budgets agrees with such changes. And we believe that if we put it in the Budget Code, we are not only resuscitating the FAP system in 2005, but we can also implement a program related to the technical resupply of the district health care network. We feel that such changes are beneficial and need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, as important as this is, we need to make the right decision, positive, I mean, not us. It's the second reading, your honor, there's no questions. No questions asked. Are you ready to vote? Get ready, please. Budget Committee? Please report to the Budget Committee just now. Turn on the microphone from the voting motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u97	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I stress that the budget committee at its meeting has taken a decision and put it on a comparative table, that even in the case of a positive vote, this law can only be applied as of 1 January 2006, because it is a complex change in the budget system. So I'm paying attention to you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, if possible, so that you can put this bill to the vote, taking into account this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u98	No objections? Dear colleagues, well, that's not going to happen then, so I guess we'll have to find some kind of political solution. You'll arrange for the committee there, otherwise we won't be able to do anything. What? Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u99	Chush, the Socialist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Petr Aleksevich! I'm the author, one of the co-authors of this law. You are well aware that this can already be taken into account in the 2005 budget. That's a problem for all majors. You know perfectly well that's the question. For any village, for any FAPA, for any infirmary that's in it. Therefore, I ask that this law be passed and put into effect as of 1 January 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u100	Dear friends! Mr. Basil, I'll give you an answer. In this case, we can introduce it in 2005. I'll explain why. Because today rural budgets are financed through district budgets. If we make these changes, it's just going to stay at the district level. I mean, there's no change in the principles that the State budget needs to be changed. That's why we can put this in since 2005. All we have to do is sign this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u101	So the committee agrees that in 2005?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u102	Technically, it has been available since 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u103	Mikola. There he is. Well, Mikola. Come on, let's vote. I'll bet on it. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the second reading and generally on the draft law amending chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Registration number 2553, authors of National Deputies Hubski, Polishchuk, Rishnjak, Sklar, Tomenko, Tsusko, Topoloov, Savicki. I would like to remind you that Bogdan Hubsky of the Conciliation Council insisted on the adoption of this bill. Please vote. [[17:35:32]] For 233 The law is passed. The factions, please. I'm reading pros. "Our Ukraine" - 87, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 58, SDPU - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National agrarian - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 15. Come on, please. "The Union" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 14, "Centre" - 7, "Deminiciates-Government" - 1, "Afterfractional" - 7. A draft Act amending the Law on Mortgage Credit, Consolidated Mortgage Debt and Mortgage Certificates is being announced. Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very brief announcement to make. The question is that according to today's law banks, when they lend loans to people to build housing, they can only make a bet of 0.7.70 percent of the cost of the mortgage. This law is proposed not to restrict those prodigals, ordinary citizens who want to take this loan, to build housing, by 70 percent. So this 0.7 is suggested by this law to cancel, and to say that any people who want to get involved, let them put 100 percent of their housing in a mortgage and get 100 percent of their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u105	That's absolutely right. I mean, it doesn't depend on any decrease in the total amount of the mortgage.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, no objection? That's why I'm voting. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The correction of Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u107	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, you said it all right, but if you've been looking closely at the documents of the Executive Directorate, they're also in line with the correction I'm making. I propose in the title of article 3, "Cost of a Core Commitment", that the word "value" be replaced by "scale" and put it in the following wording: "Assessment of a Principal Commitment". That's part one. And in part 1 of article 3, "In the case of the definition of a mortgage loan, the principal liability must include the liability price and the income of the creditor. The value of the liability in this case is the amount of the amount of the debt owed to the borrower, the word “value” is replaced by the word “measurement” and the word “in the event of the determination in the contract of mortgage lending the size of the principal debt, the amount of the liability must consist of the amount of the amount of the debt owed to the borrower and the income of the borrower”. Science and expertise says that's what we should do, and we should do it. And I'm sending you to the conclusion signed by the head of the Science and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u108	Our committee disagreed with your suggestions for two reasons. First of all, we need to know the legal terms clearly in Ukrainian. That's the first one. Don't make it out of Russian. Secondly, the value and the size of the principal are completely different values and different things. So what is written in the law is absolutely right. And if we agree to your offer, then the courts will by no means be able to collect from the proper receivables the obligations they have to pay. So there's a proposal not to take this bill into account, but to take it into account in the text that is being submitted by the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u109	Okay. Please don't agitate Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u110	If you don't vote, it's a huge loss, obviously, but it's one loss of 445.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, an amendment to the Ukrainian Mortgage Loan Act on consolidated mortgage and mortgage certificates for the maximum size of the loan. [[Registration number 5239]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u112	The committee's asking for support. [[17:40:52]] For-137
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u113	The law is not adopted. What's the committee's proposal for a second? I'm voting on the proposal to re-supply draft Law 5239. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:41:25]] For-154 The bill was rejected. A draft decree on the change of the borders of the Krolevetsk district of the Suma region is under consideration. All the documents on this subject are there. Do we need to discuss the matter? Then we'll do the report, right? Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, while the reporter goes. Matthew's microphone, please. Vitali Oluiko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u114	Dear National Deputies! The Suma District Council has violated our concerns about the change in the borders of the Crolevec of the Krolevetsky region. According to land cadastre data, there is a total area of 2,157 hectares within the town of Krolevec. The city’s development brought about changes in the composition and configurations of the city’s borders. Outside the city of Krolevec, a number of institutions, organizations, industrial enterprises, and housing centers were found. Land collection for construction was carried out according to current legislation, but there was no change in boundaries. A project to change the borders of the towns of Krolevec developed by the Krolevetsky District Branch into the city centre of the State Land Cadastre, taking into account the prospects for the development of the city's actual land use status and the master plan for the construction of the city by the Kharkiv Project Institute. The complex project is designed to include 227 hectares of land within the city. Another 458 hectares [458 ha] of land of the Bistrica Rural Council, which gave consent and 311 acres [311 ha] of land that are in the knowledge of the Buival village council, which has also given consent. These lands, which are now used by the city’s inhabitants mainly for gardening, haystacking and grazing according to design decisions, are intended to be used for one - story and multi - story public and residential buildings, for the construction of industrial enterprises, for the expansion of conservation facilities, for the creation of a park area, and for recreation and sports. Thus, the land area of the town of Krolyvec after making the necessary changes according to the project will be 3,154 acres [3154 ha]. The question of the change in the borders of the town of Krolevec, the Krolevetsky district, is in line with the legislation, and is considered and approved by Bestrick, Buwalov, and rural. The rabbit town, the Crolevetsk district and the Sumskie district councils. Agreed by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government agreed to support the issue of the Suma District Council regarding the change in the boundaries of the town of Krolevec in the Krolevetsky region. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u115	Questions. Please sign up for a question, three minutes. Please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Vladimir Bondarenko, then George Ponomarenko will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u116	Dear reporter, Vladimir Bondarenko, Kiev, Viktor Yushchenko's Block "Our Ukraine". I was at a meeting of the Committee where the question was being considered, and I definitely support it. The only thing we need to do to solve these problems is to adjust our decision depending on how these land areas are redistributed among the communities. And if there is a decision of both communities, i.e. both rural and urban, and it is agreed upon, then, as a minimum, obviously, the one they take away is suffering from something. It's the town of Krolevec, even though once we've made the right decision, we have to make proposals to support the village's social infrastructure, which means they've expanded their own areas and created recreational zones. I think we should recommend this on behalf of our committee even.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u117	So it's a wish, that's what I understand. Yes, George Ponomarenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u118	Please pass the word to Valentine Matthew
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u119	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u120	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Dear Vitalia Mikolaiovich, in your report, you have stressed, even, especially that today these lands that want to be removed are used by the population, that is, our citizens are under fences, livestock, and so forth. What is suggested is to take them to a promising building, to build one - story and multistory buildings, to create a park area, and so forth. Please give me an answer. Where and when, who will find the money for this promising construction? How about Mr. Scrooge? I think that agreeing with the appropriate rural councils was also under pressure. Today, people need to make use of what they can at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u121	Dear Valentin Grigorovich, you're really right. It's the problem of all these small cities. Some make similar requests, others do not. Organizing the boundaries of the population is a major problem for all of our Ukraine. So today the committee is only looking at documents that come to us. We are not in a position to trust local grassroots self - government today, and we make an appropriate legal decision on the basis of the materials provided. Your warning is fair. No, of course not. It is a land of supply, and the village council is entitled to make a similar decision. We have in our hands all decisions of the village councils that are taken within their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u122	Valentina Seminouk, please, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u123	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, we have members of the party who are members of the village councils who have asked us to change the boundaries of the cities. And the question of expanding the barrier is that it's not going to get into the pocket, but people will come, they'll build their houses, and they're going to get out, and they're going to be anchored in that holy land. Let us trust the deputies of the city’s district council and vote, and let us listen to their opinion. You can't define everything in general with one question. Moreover, this question was determined before Mr. Scherbian arrived. The decision of the village council was taken before the arrival. And let's listen to the MPs, who are just like us, and respect their opinion. Support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u124	Thank you. Time's up. What shall we put to the vote? Respectful colleagues may not be able to see from here how objectively this problem will be solved. There's a good idea that we probably need to support the Council's decision, and in preparing the following questions, we should probably get to know the decision-making process from the committee on the spot. And after we have a full picture, because the earth is a huge fortune. That's why I'm putting to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, the committee's proposal to approve a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the boundaries of the town of Krolevec in the district of Sumo. Registration number 5704. Please vote. [[17:50:03]] For 168 The factions? Well, focus, dear fellows. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 76, "Regions of Ukraine" - 13, Communist factions - 0, SDPU - 7, "Trudova Ukraine" - 2, National agrarian - 20, SPO - 20, Timoshenko - 3, "Soyuz" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 12, "Centre" - 4, "Dem. Initiatives. People's power is 1, non-fractional is 9. So, what's the committee's proposal? Huh? Do you want me to vote again? May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote: who's in favour of coming back to this issue, please vote. [[17:51:06]] For 201 Dear colleagues, let us see if we can arrange for the committee to study the matter so that they can return to the matter and make an objective decision. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, we were just giving. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Show the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u126	Well, please, by the factions. For: "Our Ukraine" - 90, "Regions of Ukraine" - 23, Communist factions - 0, SDPU - 12, "Trudova Ukraine" - 2, National agrarian - 17, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 3, "Soyuz" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 2, "NDP and SPTU - 13, "Centre" - 6, "Deminicatives" - and "The People's Government" - 1, "Afterfaction - 12. Dear colleagues, let us briefly discuss a very important issue -- this is a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities. At the Conciliation Council, we talked about the need for urgent consideration of the bill. We need to put it in the agenda, and then we need to look at it essentially. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities, registration number 6104. Please vote. [[17:52:37]] For 258. Decision taken. The factions? Please note, let us continue our work for 15 minutes so that we can complete our consideration of this issue. Now for the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 91, "Regions of Ukraine" - 26, Communist faction - 52, SDPU - 5, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 19, Timoshenko - 15, "Soyuz" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, "NDP and PPU - 7, "Centre" - 7, "Deminicatives" - and "The People's Government" - 0, "Afterfraction - 14. Helen Vasilovna Hotch, please. Very short. Dear colleagues, I ask you to be patient, we will have to make a decision, because here we can take it as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u127	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In March, the Supreme Council passed a law entrusting the government to increase the level of material security for the disabled. We have honored your assignment, and today the Supreme Council has decided to announce the following year as veterans. This proposal from the Supreme Council was supported by the President of Ukraine. And on behalf of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine, the government is proposing a bill amending the law adopted in March to extend the category of war veterans and to include the law and the participants in the fighting, and the participants in the Great War, which are rewarded. In particular, I want to stay with the families of the dead. Yesterday at the Supreme Council Committee on Veterans you considered this bill. And we ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put this bill to a vote on the first reading that we were able to make adjustments on the second reading and submit it in the shortest time to consider this issue on the Supreme Council. Today, we ask for your support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u128	Is there a need for the committee to report? None. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'll bet you a vote. Oh, have a seat, please. From the committee. Anastasiav Valentina Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u129	Valentin Anastassiev, Ukrainian Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Yes, I must confirm that we considered this issue on the committee yesterday. And, of course, the adoption of this law would allow for the improvement of the social situation of war veterans, namely: persons with disabilities of war, participants in combat, participants in war. The present law proposes the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Consequently, the Government had to read everything, everything had been taken into account. And, of course, the law must be financed. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis for its further elaboration. On the basis of the stated and given that this year is 60 years from the date of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders, the Committee proposes that the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this? Shall we vote now? Yeah, let's get down to business. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Get ready for Carmazin. He's followed by a nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u131	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, and respectable our frontists and veterans. We really are today, and I think we're voting for this bill, and now its name is changing, and it's expanding, not just the "disability of war," but the "war veterans." And I fully support the faction of "Our Ukraine" that fully supports this bill, which is designed to improve the social position and the participants in the fighting, and the participants in the Japanese fighting, and so on. I just think that we, Vladimir Mikhailovich, have to remove this somewhat Jesuit phrase at the end, which is called "out of the financial resources of the state." I'm pretty sure this has to be taken off completely, because if we don't find these 12 million money out there and someone else is looking for them, I think it's unobjective. And I can't just talk about, let our veterans know, let them hear today that "Urrigible Ukraine", SDPU(o) famous voted only 5 to include this issue in the consideration, "Regions" gave almost nothing, "The only Ukraine", the Dminitiva - zero, the Union - zero. They didn't give anything for it. Even this is a question to be considered. And now they're gone at all, and I don't know if they're going to vote. Because of this, I really want the veterans to know just who is blocking the adoption of the law today, which should at least raise their material status a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u132	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u133	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! This bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of War Disability is an attempt by the government to approve veterans, but there is no way to resolve the issue. Let's see what it says. "Fighters of up to 50 dollars if the monthly pension size, including allowances, increases and so on, is still below the subsistence minimum set for those who have lost their jobs." And I remind you that's 300 bracelets you're offering. Up to 300 bucks. So if up to 300 bracelets, this poor 285 is even the correct refinement for today's 285, and they're offering 300, that's why Matthew's right, and I'm right. So I suggest that the government should return face to face with the disabled of war. And the Party of Protectors of the Motherland, Victor Yushchenka's Block proposes that the word "do" be excluded, write down the figure of 100 bracelets, the fixed figure, and erase everything if the monthly pension size. And so on. These people have very little left, but let them live long and happy. And I suggest, Your Honor, that we write this down clearly. It's not necessary for the Cabinet to increase the size if it's allowed. We have to predict that there's still going to be an annual price indexation, and that's perfectly normal. Prices have now risen in general around 30 percent of the country, and the government has driven the factions today, the ones that do not exist, I will not count, I will run in the region to support the government and to support Janukovic personally. Sir, I was corrected yesterday, I made a mistake, not 12 mistakes on one sheet made by the Prime Minister, but 20. How can you do that? And you're supporting him today? Aren't you ashamed of those participants in the war? I'm talking to the government. Let's take this law as a basis, just to conceptually determine what to write at least 100 bracelets, any pre-conditions to exclude and any "if" also exclude. And the Cabinet of Ministers will be granted the right when it is made up of state patriots. And you've seen us today, apart from Hot One, no one has made us aware of it today. Thank you, though, for coming to our home today and even seeing her applause, for today we had four deputies, five assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. There is such an offer. Question completed. There's this proposal, in article 3, to delete the words "out of the financial resources of the state," and because the law should clearly be fixed. This proposal from Yavorowski is a good one. Peter Cibenko, please. Head of the committee. We're going to vote now. Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting the document, for the suggestions that have been made. Believe me, when we spoke yesterday, discussed this document, we have already agreed on a number of positions that we will certainly consider and, in particular, those that we have heard today. That's why I'm asking you to support the document in the first reading and given the particular relevance of this document and its uniqueness, which is that we on the committee accepted it in February, in March we accepted it in the hall, and since 1 May it started working on the disabled of war. So I'm asking everyone to support this document, it's extremely timely, and we're going to be working on it in a very short time, and we're going to put it on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u136	Leukyanko, please microphone. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u137	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, I will normally vote in favour of this bill, let it go, because we need to help war veterans and all those older people, but here's what we're paying attention to, we're helping veterans who fought for the Russian Empire in Afghanistan, we're helping veterans who fought for the Russian Soviet Empire in Japan, but we don't see a large category of people, Ukrainians who fought with weapons in the hands of Ukraine for independence. These questions about how to help the fighters for Ukraine’s will? Our Supreme Council never includes or wants to see and does not want to hear, but nevertheless, the people who fought with arms in hand for Ukraine's independence receive 85 bracelets of pension. But they're hungry and they're cold, and the Supreme Council closes their eyes and pretends they don't exist. We benefit from the freedom of an independent Ukraine, and we keep those people at the lowest social level and abuse them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, I think that's how we're done here. School, please, one minute. We're about to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to stress once again that this bill, of course, needs to be supported, voted. And we really need to unify ourselves at last once, the Supreme Council has to take this step -- to recognize all those who fought with weapons in their hands for Ukraine's independence, in order to repay them not only the moral but also the material losses they have suffered. Each of them fought the wounded, lost his health, and was therefore in a single complex. Because all the veterans of World War II feel offended, and UN-UPA soldiers simply feel that they are not recognized or duly recognized by the Ukrainian State. Let us take an example from Spain, where reconciliation took place. From France, where all those who fought under the flags of France are presented to the Unknown Soldier, they receive the same benefits. I also think it's time for the Supreme Council to come back face to face, not hide behind the backs of problems. And I don't know if anyone in today's government will dare to do that, but at least they have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-23-m1.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I just want to emphasize. We should probably not call on each other to submit appropriate bills or proposals to drafts. Because we're gonna discredit ourselves. The Supreme Council has nothing to do with this. I think let's make proposals to the government to develop and make informed decisions. That's why I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities. Registration number 6104 removing the words "out of the financial resources of the state." Based on the base. Please vote. [[18:06:11]] For 284 Decision taken. The factions? Please. By factions now, now, now. "Our Ukraine," please note, 96, "Regions of Ukraine" - 32, Communists - 58, SDPU - 0, "Trug Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, NDP, industrials, entrepreneurs - 11, "Centre" - 14, "Dem. Initiatives. People's power is 0, non-fractional 13. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 10 a.m. in plenary mode on Friday. Thanks for the job.
