ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:42]] Registered -433 There were 433 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputies Ignatenko Pavel Mikolaiovich, Kruk Yuri Borisovich, Novik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Saligin Vasil Viktorovich, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich, King Oleg Anatoliyovich. Let's welcome them, we want all kinds of goodies. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the arrival of Ukrainian National Deputy Dobkin Mikhail Markovich as part of the parliamentary faction of the United Ukraine Social Democratic Party. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. For reasons, please let us exchange five minutes. Please sign up. Five minutes. Please sign up. Peter Prashenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass on the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u3	Who, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u4	Martinenko, please. Oh, Yavorowski, I'm sorry. I can't hear you here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u5	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our distinguished voters, my distinguished colleagues, my national deputies! You just heard about Michael Dobkin's transition to the faction of the SDR. On this point, I want to say that this is another confirmation that we are living with you in a state where you think or belong to your position is the highest store. We have reliable information that after Michael Dobkin's transition to the "Centre" faction against him, there were tremendous repressions against his father, and his father was even arrested. And he should have applied and moved to SDPU after his father was released. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are the head of the Supreme Council! Defend the rights of the people’s deputies. Look what's happening in Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u6	Colony, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u7	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are very glad that you are conducting the session today. And I ask you to pass the word to Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u8	Vladimir Julius Pehota, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u9	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today we have a very tense session, we need to consider the budget for 2003, the budget policy for the fifth year and the agenda for the change in the 2004 budget. I'd like to ask the question that all the changes we make are uncalculated, uncalculated, and then they lead to an imbalance in economic and budgetary. Therefore, I would feel that there is no need to make changes to the budget under the reduced procedure. The budget should be done as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u10	Yes, instead of the Doroguntsov Simonenko has a word, a faction of Communists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u11	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! We are really discussing the implementation of the 2003 budget today. And our faction has a lot of serious observations. And once again, I can testify that Ukraine's budgets were not budgets for the people of Ukraine, they were budgets for the oligarchs, for their gangbusters, and for the problems they are dealing with today. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I insist again and again, and I ask: yesterday because of the break and that we have considered the issue of the privatisation of Civoristal, this question is part of the same budget as it is for today and next years. So the faction of communists insists that we return to the issue of including the privatization of the "Cruvoristal in the order of the day session and consider the issue in fact. And the faction of communists is strongly opposed to the privatization of the Creebrisstal, as are other privatizations that have led to such impoverishment on the part of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u12	Alexander Bandurka's Group of Democratic Initiatives, People's Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u13	Dear Head, give the word to the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u14	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u15	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs! It's every right of us to determine which factions we work in. Michael Dobkin called me this morning and asked me very much to make sure that his transition to our faction was announced. I think the rhetoric of our colleague from the block of "Our Ukraine" about horrors suggests that a new political best-seller is about to be written. It's Mr. Yavorowski's business to write a book, but none of it is Mr. Dobkin, nor is the faction of the SDPU. All of them. We don't have a prosecutor like Mr. Yavorowski yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u16	Vitaly Shibko, please. Alexander Frost, Vitaly Šibko, gives his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Adam Ivanovich held the meeting yesterday, maybe he didn't give you everything, so I'll brief you. The faction of the Socialists was holding a retreat of factions at the factory. It's in the "Creebrestal." We realize that time can be lost. There is literally a week-and-a-half left, as the largest in Europe, and the most efficient company in the metallurgical complex can be lost by the state. So despite all the procedural finesse and other circumstances. We are obliged as a parliament to include this issue in the order of the day, to consider it in substance. Consider at least the Cabinet of Ministers’ information on the management of state-owned property. Once again, this is a constitutional duty for Parliament, not the demands of a faction or a deputy. I urge you to consider this situation, ask the question in the order of the day, and vote. It hasn't been voted out in this paper since yesterday, so I think the question can be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Time's up. So let's get to the point. A report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 is under consideration. To implement article 62 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Budget Committee proposes the following order of hearing a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003: a report by the Finance Minister of Ukraine - up to 15 minutes, answers to questions - within 15 minutes, a report by the Head of the Committee on Budget Questions - up to 15 minutes and answers to questions similar to 15 minutes, a report by the head of the Court of Auditors - within 10 minutes. The discussion will take 60 minutes. Is there no objection? None. The word is given for the report to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janović. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. My report is for half an hour. So I'm asking you to consider this. Based on article 62 of the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, no objection to the report within half an hour? You don't? Please, then, let us continue our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u21	Thank you. On the basis of article 62 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, let me report on the summary of the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget last year. The high rates of economic growth and the 100 per cent implementation of Ukraine's State budget last year have led to a deepening of structural reforms that have ensured an organic combination of accelerated growth policies with active social policies. The main task of the budget was to actually plan the budget's revenues, to carry out a balanced policy on the execution of all current payments, to pay off past years' arrears, to provide a real basis for tax reform through the adoption of changes to taxation. In the end, budgetary policy was aimed at implementing government action programmes, openness, effectiveness, efficiency. Let me remind you that last year's budget was unforgivable. Its adoption was compounded by a lengthy and strained process of consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since the budget was being budgeted against the backdrop of systemic problems accumulated in previous years. In view of the increase in minimum wage, which was voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine immediately after the adoption of the budget, it became necessary to adopt changes to the budget. The budget has been adjusted twice over the year as a result of the real state of the economy. In part, I would like to thank you, honourable national MPs, for the state position you have shown by accepting the budget is tense but realistic. And what's important is before the start of the fiscal year. This made it possible to provide the necessary conditions for economic growth and to increase the social orientation of fiscal policy in the past year and in the current year. A few words about the main indicators of socio-economic development of the state. Last year, GDP grew to 9.4 percent, the highest figure in Ukraine's years of independence. The nominal GDP increased by 38.4 billion in the reporting year compared to 2002 and stood at 264 billion dollars. The positive is the dynamics of industrial growth that over the years of economic stability reached the highest 15.8 percent by the previous year. This positive trend has been observed in all regions of Ukraine. Within the planned rate, consumer prices were rising, which over the past year was positive 5.2 percent. Ukraine’s steady economic growth over the past few years has contributed to the flow of foreign direct investment into the economy, which reached about $7 billion last year. The profits earned by enterprises in 2003 increased by 1.2 billion dollars compared to the previous year and amounted to 37 billion dollars. However, the damage to businesses decreased to 17 billion dollars or 25 percent. The government’s policy to improve the well - being of the population over the past year has doubled the minimum wage. From May 1st and July 1, 2003, the salaries of individual budget workers were increased by about 30 percent. The real salary in 2003 increased by 15.2 percent compared to the previous year. The average monthly salary in the last four years has grown 2.6 times and in 2003 it has been 462 bracelets. In terms of budgetary indicators. For the first time in years of independence last year, the overall fund has been implemented, both by income and by expenditure. In fact, Ukraine’s general government budget accounted for 42.3 billion dollars, 22 percent more than in 2002. The revenue part of the government budget is made up of 103.4 percent of the annual plan. Compared to the previous year, revenues increased by 9.6 billion dollars and amounted to 55 billion dollars. The positive situation was also the implementation of local budgets that received $34.4 billion last year, including over a budget of about 5 billion dollars. Ukraine’s 2003 budget reached 75.3 billion rubles, or 108.8 billings. Compared to 2002, recorded income increased by 22 percent. There has been a tendency to increase the drinking weight of the GDP budget. In particular, GDP's income increased from 27.4 percent to 28.5 percent in 2003. This increase took place on a separate basis. Thus, the drinking weight of the income tax increased from 4.2 percent in 2002 to 5 percent in 2003. Almost all basic fiscal taxes provide full implementation of the annual plan and significant increases compared to the previous year. The income tax for the budget was 13.2 billion dollars, representing 112 percent of the plan per year. The increase in income from this tax compared to 2003 is the result of improved financial performance. In particular, the increase in income from enterprises in the past year is compared to the previous year by 1.2 billion dollars. The income tax for 2003 was 13.5 billion dollars, or 114 percent of the annual estimate. Compared to 2002, the increase was 25 percent. In particular, the government’s targeted work on improving the welfare of the population has led to a re-establishment of the planned indicators. The Excise Congregation received 5.2 billion dollars, which is 105 percent of the annual estimate. The revenue from the import duty amounted to almost 3 billion. Infants, or 116 percent of the annual planned rate. In recent years, it has been possible to implement a plan for the first time to come from the privatization of state property. Compared to the previous year, the reported arrivals increased by 3.6 times. So last year, for the first time, we were able to raise the necessary amount of money to solve the socio-economic problems of the state, to improve the welfare of the population. The implementation of the State in 2003 was based on a software-based approach, which was improved by the introduction of passports for budgetary programmes that correspond to the main directions of budgetary policy for 2003 approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine’s government budget expenditure was $56.1 billion, or 100.4 percent of the planned rate. Including, as a general fund, 43.8 billion dollars, or 100.1 percent of the annual plan. Thanks to the measures taken to fill the state budget in a balanced policy of borrowing government property from privatization, it was possible to fund the general public budget for the first percent of the time, and to create conditions to prejudice the accumulation of creditors' debt. In the first place, the cost of work for budget workers and other social expenses was financed. In particular, education costs amounted to 15 billion. That's 2.7 billion dollars more than last year. Social protection and social security: 13 billion That's right. For health care, 9.7 billion dollars is an additional 2.2 billion dollars. The protection of an article of the general budget of the State budget has been made by a percentage of the total. The use of budgetary resources has produced significant results in the economic activity of the main budget managers. Education. A full-fledged increase in university scholarships has been made. For students with disabilities, orphans from low-income families accounted for 20 percent. About two thousand school computers have been installed to carry out the information program of general education, educational institutions, and computerization of rural schools. While in the previous year the program was virtually unfunded. The publication and acquisition of textbooks last year was fully funded until the beginning of the new school year. Protection of health. The operation of 52 general specialized and dental clinics is ensured. 31,000 beds for medical care in 82 hospitals with a general profile. The purchase of antituberculosis drugs is fully ensured. During the year, funds were allocated to ensure that patients with diabetes are provided with insulin. A total of 8.5 billion dollars or more in the previous year have been allocated from the State Health Budget General Fund by 31 percent. Defense. With the aim of providing social security for military personnel, the social security of military officers has increased by one and a half times or 389 dollars. The cost of purchasing weapons and military equipment by the Ministry of Defence and applied research in the area of military defence of the state has doubled. The government of the court. The enforcement of justice by the courts of Ukraine’s general jurisdiction has been improved. In particular, about 7,000 additional members of the courts were introduced. International activity. The allocation allowed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure the functioning of the 107 foreign diplomatic institutions in Ukraine at an appropriate level. In addition, seven new overseas institutions were established. A more complete list of the results received, the distinguished national MPs in the materials given to you. A significantly higher investment component of the Budget. So only the capital expenditure of the budget as one of the components of the investment is increased by 3.3 billion. Seven billion dollars last year. In gross domestic product, these expenditures amounted to 4.4 percent versus 3 percent in the previous year. The planned volume of government centralised capital investments and investment subsidies to local budgets has been 100% funded. The credit debt of budgetary institutions funded by the State budget for 2003 decreased by 819 million. That's right. A balanced budget policy has eliminated debt on wages and reduced debt on Chernobyl payments as it has increased in recent years. In the full amount of funding, a gradual compensation of 500 million dollars is being paid to citizens for their losses. That's right. A well-balanced government policy on government debt management has contributed to the effective inclusion of funds on the one hand in the necessary amounts, on the other, on the most favourable conditions, which was first achieved only in the reporting year. The fact that the authoritative financial journal "Imidji markets" and "Euroweek" have called the placement of Ukrainian Eurobonds a better government transaction in 2003. This led to a reduction in government debt from 30.5 percent to 20.5 percent in 2003. Government debt repayments and interest payments were made to both external and internal creditors in the reporting year on time and in full. A balanced government policy has enabled the government to obtain savings in the repayment and servicing of an internal debt of $539 million. Money, external debt 881 million The money, that is, the overall economy, has made up about 1.4 billion. That's right. The planned level of government budget deficit last year was financed in full -- one and a half billion dollars. I would like to point out that in 2003 there was a significant improvement in the grant from the State Budget to local budgets, with the removal declining. In total, the total amount of grants that have been recalculated during the reporting period with an additional grant is about 6 billion dollars, or 100 percent of the annual plan. The debt of local social benefits budgets decreased compared to the beginning of 2003 and is not at all available as at 01.01.2004. With your permission, I'd like to take a look at the comments made under the Budget Code by the Court of Auditors regarding the implementation of the budget last year. It is good that there is now an independent authority to control the use of funds from the State budget of Ukraine, which should provide objective conclusions. The Ministry of Finance has carefully considered the conclusions of the Court of Auditors regarding the implementation of Ukraine’s law. It should be noted that, first, we cannot agree with the conclusions of the Court of Auditors regarding the reduction in the volume of production per activity in 2003. [[page 8]] So according to the State Committee on Statistics, in 2003, there was an increase in industrial production volume not only in the country as a whole by 15.8 percent, but also in all major activities, such as engineering -- about 36 percent, mining -- 5.5 percent, light industry -- by 4 percent. Second, it is also noted in the conclusions that the business losses resulted in budget losses. This is also not the case because the income part of the budget is affected, not by the loss, but by the extent to which the profits are earned. To determine the amount of the budget’s income loss by applying tax rates to the amount of the damage is an incorrect methodology. We should also take into account the current Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation, which allows unwholesome business entities to avoid taxation, to take into account gross costs of all possible costs. At the same time, it should be noted that last year’s income tax was collected in full and even overworked. Third. It is also noted that economic growth has taken place against the backdrop of increasing inflationary processes. In fact, last year's consumer price index corresponds to the average annual planned rate of 5.2 percent, which is an acceptable level of inflation, based on global experience. Moreover, economic theory shows that the level of consumer prices within these limits has a positive impact on economic growth. In addition, it is noted in the conclusions that the legislative and legal follow-up to the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act by the government has been inadequately carried out, which does not correspond to the reality, since virtually all 74 articles of the Act have been implemented or regulated by the adoption of the relevant legislative and regulatory acts. [[page 16]] Other articles, which the Court of Auditors finds unfulfilled, have been regulated by amending tax legislation. In particular, it is noted that the government did not comply with the mandatory condition provided for in article 21, paragraph 5, for the approval of the list of open shareholders whose shares were to be sold, while the Cabinet of Ministers approved Order 24.02 "For the Approval of the List of Open Shareholders". It is also noted in the conclusions that the government did not comply with the requirement of article 51 of the law on the approval of the procedure for the use of promissory calculations, while the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 07.04 of last year, No. 500, on the amendment of the order of issuance, circulation and payment of bills issued for the amount of the added value tax, was adopted. In addition, it is noted that the government has failed to comply with the requirement of article 70 of the law on the definition by the first of June 2003 of an order whereby, starting in 2004, the income tax on citizens working in branches, branches, manages and registers the income of the respective local budgets, regardless of the location of the legal person. However, this issue was settled with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. According to the Court of Auditors, expenditure planning was carried out on a level basis. evenly over the course of the year, but this did not take into account the adoption of bills in May and June, which increased the spending of the budget. Even the ignorant realize that expenses could not be spent in the first half of the year. Costs used. a change to the State budget, which was adopted in December 2003. They either led to a default, or they increased the creditor's debt. Therefore, we suggest that we stop making changes to the State budget in December. The findings also indicate that the real revenue of the State budget has decreased by 3.2 percent. This is impossible to agree with, given the growth in real GDP by 9.4 percent last year, and the level of government budget revenue implementation was 103.4 percent. At the same time, one of the largest levels of GDP redistribution was reached through the budget system, and the actual and medium-term consumer price index was within the planned level. It is also not possible to agree with the conclusions on reducing agricultural production, since this House of Auditors does not take into account the negative climate conditions that were objectively created last year. It is also impossible to agree with the Court of Auditors’ comments on the low level of social protection. Our critics have forgotten that in 2003 significant progress has been made in increasing the social security of the population. In addition, it should be noted that in the past year, the debt of social benefits that has been accumulated in recent years has been virtually reduced. The government is also accused of adopting numerous regulations. At the same time, there is no example of the negative impact of these acts on the socio-economic situation in the state. In addition, we know that in the last year, both the income and the expenditure of all budgets have been implemented for the first time. In addition, the government’s legal expertise indicates that there are no violations of current legislation. At the same time, we all know that the laws adopted by the Supreme Council often conflict with each other, because both the executive and the legislative authorities need to work together in this direction. We also find the unwarranted conclusions on criticism in part of the adoption of 18 government decisions on wage increases. Last year is the first year of independence in which the government ensured a sufficiently high level of wage increase. It is also impossible to agree with the Court of Auditors’ conclusions on the use of the contingency fund, which was used by the government in a balanced and reasonable manner during the year, and in which a certain amount of funds remained at the end of the year. The large amount of reserve funds used in December of last year focused on the implementation of the ratified Supreme Council of Ukraine between Ukraine and Israel in part of the compensation costs associated with the plane crash. It does not match the reality of the claim of insufficient repayment in 2003 of loans granted to the government because the amount of loans was accumulated in previous years, and the loans were not at the proper level. We also believe that the assessment of the Court of Auditors regarding the quality of government spending on the budget last year is unfounded, since external borrowing in 2003 was done on the most favourable terms in Ukraine's years of independence. Let other examples. Some of the government's decisions in the drafting of regulations were unfortunately not made for political reasons. Especially. There was no sale on government-guaranteed credit auctions and debt obligations, which prevented this tool from being used effectively and resulted in the non-use of funds to pay off the principal amount of the debt. These examples are only a small part of the general comments of the Ministry of Finance on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a stop to the major achievements of budgetary policy last year. The biggest real increase in GDP was just last year. For the first time, the General Fund of the State Budget was made at 100 percent. The proceeds of privatization of state property were made in full for the first time. For the first time, the General Fund of the State Budget was funded at 100 percent. For the first time, government budget expenditure was automatically financed according to the budget schedule. The development of the programming method for the planning of state budget expenditure through the implementation of budget programmes’ passports was also done for the first time. For the first time, Ukraine has reached the lowest debt ratio in years of independence, which is equal to 29.5 per cent of GDP. A full transfer was made to the treasury service of local budgets. The real wage increase was 15.2 percent. Balanced fiscal policies have eliminated debt on wages. The debt on Chernobyl payments has nearly doubled, with its growth in recent years. We were able to unlock the problem of VAT compensation for payers. It should be noted that in 2003 the increase in tax debt was halted, no. The scheme of his cheating. Targeted work for the first time in recent years has brought about a mutually positive impact between the macroeconomic situation and government policy in the area of budgetary relations. In concluding my statement, I would like to point out that, taking into account all the measures taken by the government to increase the rate of economic growth, and that, for the first time in years of independence, Ukraine has ensured the implementation of the general budget of the State, both at income and expenditure, I propose that the 2003 State Budget report be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report has been completed, and we are moving to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Mikli Janović Azarov, please sign up. 15 minutes. On the board, please give us the names of the national deputies who are registered. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u23	I ask you to pass the word to Paul Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u24	Paul Kachur, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u25	Dear Mikolo Janovich, of course, is pleased to hear that the budget is being implemented and even overturned. But it's clear that the sad reason for this is that the income part of the budget was understated and as a result, we came up with the projected figures that the budget committee was proposing. But I have a question for you. You know that the transitional balance of the 2003 budget, the unutilized 2003 budget, exceeds 1 billion. That's right. Don't you think it's wrong in this case when there's still non-payments under the Chernobyl Foundation, when there's debt under the 57th article, and when there's savings of citizens, even 50 dollars, which, of course, people stand in large numbers, even those 50 dollars don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u26	I can say very briefly that anyone who's familiar with the treasury system knows that the transition balance of one billion dollars is a small amount that is used for current payments. And in short, on 31 December, the Ministry of Finance was recalculating the volume of, for example, 500 million bracelets, and they all failed to be used on 31 December. So they're considered leftovers by the first of January. But they will be used on January 1st for the 2003 appointments. What's the question? What did Azarov send this one billion? There's the Court of Auditors, show us where we sent them. They are leftovers, and we will hand over 2004 in exactly the same perspective as the rest of 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u27	National Deputy Korsakov, faction of "Ukraine". Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u28	Dear Mikola Janovich, what was the state of indebtedness last year in connection with payments of state aid? That's the first question. And the second. What conditions have been created for the Ministry of Finance to provide more fully the administrative and territorial unit budgets with the necessary financial resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u29	I have already answered this question in my report. There's no debt on salary payments in the budget. Not in the local budgets, not in the State budget. With regard to the creation of administrative and territorial units, I can report that the state budget cost was 5.5 billion dollars. In order to provide the budgets with the administrative and territorial units with funding for the expenditure, the expenditure has been set at a rate of one percent, i.e. in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u30	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u31	Dear Mikolo Janovich, I'd like to disagree with your answer. The debt is on a salary I've been running around Konotap in a sewing factory for almost six years. There's nothing I can do about where I didn't knock. But I have a question for you: The law that we passed, 889, on the income tax of natural persons, which today, article six, article nine, is a social benefits tax, the granting of disability benefits to disabled people from childhood regardless of age and group, taxes, social benefits, the granting of benefits to participants in the Great Homeland War, Afghans. When will adjustments be made? And to conclude, why did the gasoline cost seven copies in Soviet times and the milk 14? And now we have these prices. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u32	I told you that there was no debt in the Budget for Wage Organizations for the first June of this year. If they do, bring me where, the debt will be repaid within two weeks. You know, someone who cares about his constituents doesn't just write, write all the governorates, they come and solve questions. Come on, I'll take you in, and we'll figure it out. Once again, I reiterate that there are no arrears in the payment of salaries under State and local budgets. What the distinguished people's MP Ginsburg says applies to a sewing factory, a private enterprise. State, not state. I'm talking about the budget. Everything financed from the budget is recorded in the budget schedule. And we cannot finance the salary of the Konotapski sewing factory from the State Budget. This is the result of the business activity of the company, the management of the Konotapian sewing factory. Another issue was that the Government had adopted a programme that would significantly reduce wages both in the public sector and in the private sector. We've set a benchmark of about 200 million. This debt is reduced by one month, although I repeat that the government has no responsibility for the performance of specific enterprises, except for those financed from the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u33	Vladimir Zaplatinski, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mikolo Janovich! There are many questions, but if possible, one in the government budget's income and two in the expenditure section. Please tell me, what measures were taken by the government in 22003 to regulate the market for alcoholic beverages and tobacco products when the income portion of the budget was filled? And two of the following, part of the expenditure: please tell me, how much debt was paid for underexpenditures in 2003, and what was done after solving the problems of regions that needed significant capital investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u35	I answered that question in the report. For the first time, we will ensure that the excise congregation grows to about one billion dollars. This is true of the government’s efforts to increase the income from alcohol. We have fully fulfilled the obligations of the budgets to pay off the public debt. Last year, 500 million dollars were funded. Next year, we plan to double the 2005 budget and anticipate funding to cover the population's investment of about 1 billion dollars. With this proposal, the government will go to the Supreme Council, and if you support it, there will be about 1 billion dollars next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u36	Mikola Nightshenko, Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u37	Hard Ukraine, 160 constituency. Dear Mikola Janovich, what is the trend in this year's budget? And the next question. And in the middle of the year, and more specifically in July, in Ukraine, coal was increasing by 20 percent for the population, which is the additional expenditure of the State budget through the subsidy and grant mechanism. What measures have been taken to quickly intervene in this problem, and will coal prices be maintained this year? Because it's an extra strain on family budgets, thousands of family budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u38	I also answered the Chernobyl problem. We double-declared our debt, double our debt. We have a goal of completely eliminating this debt by the end of this year. As far as coal is concerned, subsidies to the population under this article will be increased in line with the increase in the price of coal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u39	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u40	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Mikola Janovich, I have three questions. Please tell us that with the adoption of the 2003 budget, the Supreme Council passed new tax laws, extending the tax base to about nine billion. Growth, however, has grown by only 7.6 billion. I mean, if the Supreme Council hadn't passed new laws, worked for old people, we wouldn't have had any growth in the budget. Is it tax work, or what are the reasons? Next question. We've got GDP growth coming up. But for some reason, there is no increase in the welfare of the population. What's the big deal about this? And the third. 57 articles on education, the Education Act. The lawsuits, their hundreds, these courts, thousands of lawsuits. Yet this debt is a state before these people, this judicial branch of power has acknowledged. Is there any plan in the government to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u41	We adopted the 2003 budget and during 2003. Some 50 amendments to tax laws were made in the year. What I said was that what I said was about the complexity of the government budget's revenue execution. The current year is even more difficult because we are undergoing radical tax reform. And what we have. We have managed to obtain a balanced income and expenditure budget in 2003 this is a major achievement of the government and the Supreme Council. There are certainly shortcomings in execution, and we are working on warning these flaws, avoiding these shortcomings. And I personally could say a lot about these shortcomings, but we work and execute the budget. Regarding article 57 of the Education Law. I can only say from this rostrum responsibly, we only do what's in the budget. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u42	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u43	Thank you. Please tell us, please, that you probably know about your own government, regulation 410 on the financing of social objects, and you may well understand that this decree falls within the scope of the Corruption Act because it was a direct and direct bribe of those national deputies who voted in favour of the budget. And it was only those national deputies who were allocated funds to the districts, to social objects that were working with the government, in your view. And the head of the Lviv administration told my assistant that if your deputy didn't vote for the budget, then his voters, and this is your electorate, this is your people you're running, they're not getting anything. So I say again, these are signs of crime and sooner or later you will be responsible, you and those who support you. So what are you going to tell the voters about this? How do you explain that one thing and the other nothing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u44	Your question does not apply to the implementation of the 2003 government budget. So I will answer your question when I answer questions about the implementation of the 2004 budget. And the government's decision is not 410, it's 510. That's for you to remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u45	Basil Gavriluk, please, Group Centr.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Nikolai Janovich! It's interesting we're getting along with you. See how it sounds, "The report on the implementation of Ukraine's 2003 State Budget Act." I don't know what's up. The fact that we've been used to the Ministry of Finance trying to run. : Go, deal with the unsupervised Supreme Council, then we must have gotten used to it. But what does the State Tax Administration not participate in tax collection in Ukraine today? Why are they not in the government bed? What kind of attitude is that with the deputies? And the second question. I'd like to make it clear. Here we have a detailed analysis of the 2003 situation of the Court of Auditors with you today. Some violations you agree with, some of them aren't. But the question is, if you agree with those violations, you will return with any specific violations, whether the guilty have been punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u47	With regard to the absence of DPA representatives. I'll ask them why they're not here. I don't want to comment on their activities, because I have enough reasons to evaluate their work properly. With regard to the comments of the Court of Auditors, we have carefully studied these observations. There are meaningful comments. And on these issues, the Ministry of Finance and the government will work. There are those remarks that we consider to be unfaithful, and I have made this plain in my report. Of course, where there is a violation, the perpetrators will be called to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u48	Yes, thank you, Mikola Janovich. Time's up. Thank you. Please have a seat. The word for the co-report has the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs within 15 minutes, and by the way, the answers to questions are only half an hour, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u49	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, my statement on the government's report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, I'd like to start with a thank you. Thanks to the budget committee team that contributed enormously to the drafting of this bill, which proved, including in this sessional room, that the government budget of 55 billion incomes is a reality. I would like to thank you: Ponomarenko, Sergey Chelnokov of the Communist faction, Baranowski of the Socialist faction, Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk of the Jury's Jury Timoshenko faction, Ludmila Pawnee Suprun of the People's Democratic Party, Kirilczuk, Assadchev, Paul Kachuru, Vladislav Atroschenka of "Our Ukraine", Vasil Potapov and many others who worked as the only team when we were looking for additional resources from the State budget of Ukraine. It is thanks to the work of the Committee of Budgets, without increasing taxes, to the very first sources of revenue introduced in the history of Ukrainian budgetary policy, such as the removal of part of the revenue of state-owned enterprises that were first introduced in the past year and which gave 700 million dollars to the State budget. The money, which the government has strongly denied, claims that these sources of revenue are unrealistic. But they finally found out, agreed together, incorporated into the Law, and it worked. Targeted electricity tariff allowances, a transparent auction for selling sugar-cheese quotas, which had previously been in the financing of the shadow economy and today allowed hundreds of millions of dollars to be added to the State budget. The increase in the wage on oil and gas, where in this room we were accused of destroying industry, and in fact, we provided hundreds of millions of dollars again, provided hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue to the State budget. [[Catherine Alexandrovna Fomenko, by the way, is also a quality member of this team.]] The cancellation of the gas-supply benefits, the removal of a whole range of benefits, the ban on housing for military personnel and the directing of living budget to build this apartment, which has been felt by the real increase in the number of square meters of housing protected by the homeowners. All of these measures have made it possible to add to the State budget, and I'm stressing again, without increasing the tax pressure on the economy of almost four billion dollars, that's the difference in the base that we put in the State budget, and at the expense of which we expected social programs to be implemented. Did the government believe that? Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the quote by the newly appointed Prime Minister, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, on our proposals at that time. “The budget now adopted” meant the budget voted by this Supreme Council in the first reading - “will not be adopted by either the Government or the President, which has already been vetoed. We'll look each other in the eye honestly, and I hope we stop deceiving each other and the people. Now it is not the cheeks that need to be blown, but the income part of the budget. And that's why everyone's gonna have to smell good." And a project with a figure of just under 50 billion bracelets was introduced. Today, the government is proud to report on the 55th. Your honor, this is not your fault. This is due to the concerted work of the Supreme Council team, the Budget Committee team when most of us didn't stop working, and when we had a real professional conversation. Regrettably, the 2004 budget and the 2003 budget process are still running out of blood after we have adopted this unprofessional and inefficient budget. You have just heard the report of First Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Janovich Azarov. It's like we're having a great time. Respectful, and related to such serious budgetary imbalances, in macroeconomic indicators, when both the government and the authorities in Ukraine are making budgetary plans for the bulwarks of the sea because neither in government nor in parliament nor in the budget committee has real objective information about the indicators on which we are to make budgetary planning. Just to say that an indicator such as the amount of taxes collected by self - government entities, a management entity that actually gives us a picture of a real tax overpayment, a real estate, is now a secret behind the family of locks held by the State Tax Administration. Today, in his speech, Mikola Janovich Azarov did not say, yes, we have actually done a serious overhaul of the gross domestic product, but where does the budget's income from this gross domestic product? Where were the four billion coins that were poured into the shadow economy? I'm absolutely convinced that if we start to analyze the amount of the total revenue of the State budget to the gross domestic product referred to by the honourable Mikola Janovich, and we're going to analyze the situation in 2002 and 2003, I don't know if there's a possibility to show a slide right now, but you'll see on this slide that if you take the terms and conditions, you'll see that the gross domestic product revenue of the State budget was actually reduced in 2003 if we take the common base. And it's not 20, it's only 18.6 percent. And from what she's been reduced to, I'm going to stop at that in my speech. Mikola Janović claimed that the government had great achievements in public debt management. On this I think it's worth a break. Dear colleagues, in order for you all to understand what happens to government debt, let me give you an example: Imagine that when you calculate your own family budget for a year, you've calculated that you're getting $200 in salary, and you have to borrow 200 in order to live this year. Suddenly, your boss raises your salary, that is, increases your budget’s income, and you start to get 400 dollars. But you're still going to your neighbor and borrowing money that you think is growing in the economy, you wouldn't need it at all. This loan is called "deficit," it's a loan cover, it's a lack of money in the State Budget. So the budget was overrun, and the government went to market and made loans that would have to be returned to other governments in 2005-2006-2007. Without any direction of purpose, these costs are used. This money they were going to just eat, and eventually after the end of the year, this money just stayed in Treasury accounts, and from the taxpayer's pocket, people pay interest on these loans. This is an effective management of government finances and government debt in the style of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. I can really confirm that the President of Ukraine, in his letter, made this very clear when he says that the trend in budget deficits due to an increase in direct external debt should motivate the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council to carefully predict the consequences of the overwhelming development of external borrowings over internal ones. Dear colleagues, in 2002, the structure of external and domestic borrowings was 38 percent borrowed from external markets and the rest from domestic markets. The government dramatically changed this structure, and in 2003 only went to foreign markets for money. Thus, all our debt obligations today are formed in foreign currency, and if external economic conditions change, if exports fall and we do not have a metallurgical and chemical industry as an ingredient, we today will have a huge problem in servicing the debt owed by the government of Yanukovic. And we need to finally figure out, and somehow we have a good situation with external debt, when we're told that we have only 25 percent of the government debt ratio to GDP, that means that the government is just closing its eyes on the huge problems that are today in the economy of the country, as the debt ratio for people's savings. How is an unrepentant debt owed at the added value? How did the 57 - article debt form for students who do not recognize or acknowledge? How did the debt to the Chernobyl community, in front of international institutions, come about? If you add another government debt here, you're going to go 90 percent, which is critical to any economy in the world. Next problem. We should have clearly described the privatisation situation in the current year. We were drawing diagrams that privatization was extremely successful. Dear colleagues, and the situation that we had on Chrysalis yesterday when we discussed the issue, it was exactly the same in 2003, when we sold state property at no cost. I'll give you just two examples: the sale of the ferro-floating Nikopolski factory, which was sold for the sum of the annual income! And for today, the manipulations that this government is making with this State Property Fund from every Ukrainian pocket have been pulled out of each of you by dozens of dollars of your property by untransparent privatization. [[I'm addressing you, reverend radios!]] An example of the sale of a Ukrainian mobile stock package when two packages are sold on one day: one belongs to the State of Ukraine, the other belongs to a Dutch company. A package sold by a Dutch company costs twice the stock that the government sells. The direct irresponsibility, impunity, and confidence that no one will ever be responsible for this! That's how we have the 2003 budget, that's how we have privatization. And even the funds that came from the sale of the UMC stock in the face of the Budget Act weren't budgeted for there, so they're going to go where do you think? - to the Ukrainian Security Service, to create a system of confidential communication, or specifically, a system of political monitoring of you, honorable national MPs, including. And the main thing is the question of income. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs has decided at its meeting to report to the head of the State Tax Administration, along with the Budget Committee, today. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I don't understand why the committee's decision has not been implemented and why the apparatus has not invited the head of the State Tax Administration, because the Budget Code clearly states that we're honourable colleagues on the subject of a budget implementation report that we can listen to the chief budget administrators. It's like him. We have a lot of supervisors today. Yesterday I was told, "So let's listen to the Supreme Council and the other supervisors." Dear colleagues, we have finally experienced that the State Tax Administration has turned from a contracting authority when it provides revenue to the State Budget into an administrator when they are also in December months, and, by the way, in May, this year they pay more from the State Budget, paying the added cost tax than they will provide for the coming to the State Budget. So if you eliminate this organ, the state budget will only win. That's what we've been up to. And I would also like to define another outstanding problem that the State Tax Administration and the government have to deal with. This is a lack of political will to eliminate free economic zones, high-priority areas that are designed only for money laundering and tax evasion. Why? Because the vast majority of these zones are located in the Donetsk region and have a direct and direct relation to the active government and the acting Prime Minister. So as long as there's this government, while there's this Prime Minister, they'll never pay taxes and they won't collect. And try to compete with the other regions today with those who do not pay the taxes. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask with the permission of the Supreme Council, considering that the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, has been continued, I would ask for another five minutes. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u50	Is there no objection? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u51	I thank you very much. Dear colleagues, let's go back to the tax-added cost situation. Earlier in all times, in all the economies where this tax works, the most important contribution to the State budget was the value added tax. If you look at the situation today as the situation has changed in 2002-2003, you'll see that in the revenue of the State budget, the value added tax in 2002 was 29 percent, in the plans of 2003 it was 25 percent, the actual tax execution was only 22 percent. And in the red tape, you see this ratio in terms of GDP. If this was 7.3 percent in 2002, in 2003 the government agreed that this tax was 4.8 percent. What accounted for this? Because the State Tax Administration, which administers this tax, has actually become a tool for stealing funds from the State Budget. And in February 2004, the President issued an Order on Measures to Eliminate Corruption in Public Authorities, where he made clear the need to investigate macroindicators' inadequacy with the coming of the State Budget. The situation immediately rectified, but no one was going to follow the President's orders. Today, the tax situation on added value has become critical. And I am absolutely convinced that coming here by representatives of the State Tax Administration is a powerful testimony to what they have nothing to say to you people's advocates about what happened to the value added tax situation. Today, we will be offered to form this debt as a sovereign debt. Once again, this will be done by the following governments to pay from the State Budget the consequences of the management when the pockets are being charged by representatives of a separate political power. As another experience, how tax is manipulating tax debt data, I'd like you to look at another slide. See how the State Treasury today has been dynamic in the middle of the day. 19 numbers is the term of payment of the added value tax. All these days, between 30 and 50 percent of the budget always came. Today you can see that the budget is provided in a completely manual administration. The left-hand side of the budget comes up with 29 numbers when there is no time limit for paying taxes, when they just force today's operators to pay on this very day, so that 30 numbers all of the leftovers will be paid for the corresponding bribe in the form of 20-30, sometimes 40 percent. Next slide. I'd like you to look at how tax manipulates data. Well, look at the three digits. By all three figures, the Budget Committee has the corresponding documents signed by the Government, the State Tax Administration, on the state of the outstanding tax debt on the added value. You can see that there is a figure of 1.01.2003 that the state is to blame for the ownership of 7,500, 7,200, and 6,600. The same situation as on January 1, 2004, when the same State Tax Administration returns three digits: 7,430, 7,380, and 6,400. The last figure was named at a meeting with the President of Ukraine when they had to demonstrate that some debt had been reduced. The IMF had a figure of 7 billion 430 million when we had to demonstrate that our debt had increased. In fact, it means only one thing — the real information in the country is not available, the government is deprived of it. The government today is tied with hands. I am absolutely convinced that unless immediately a decision is taken to merge the State Tax Administration, this monster, which today is used exclusively for the pressure of the national MPs. And the example of the transition of today’s Dobkin is the best witness. Otherwise, dear fellows, the state budget is not going to be collected. And I can't, unfortunately, describe the cost situation. But today, when agricultural spending has been increased, on the fuel-energy field, our government today did not physically know what to do with this money. Because the government doesn't have a real budget program. In conclusion, answering Andrew School’s question: Does it have to do with two sad decrees - 509 and 510.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u52	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u53	Does the 509 and 510 rulings relate to the government's report on the implementation of this budget? Andrew, I'm telling you, it does. You can see here a map of regions: white and pink regions that are shown today are almost out of money. You can see that today it's almost all Galician, that it's the Vinnitsk district. I'm sorry, Viennese, but this government doesn't love you, you're suffering for choosing deputies from the opposition, Zaporezka, the Hersonian region. And that was, uh, respectable colleagues, bribes. You, the people's deputies, are being bribed to vote on the 2004 budget and to approve this report immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u54	Questions, please log in. Please give the name of the national MPs who have been enrolled for questions. Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Vladimir Pehota will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u55	Peter Alexiyovich, you haven't touched the force, I understand, lack of time, problems of spending. And I think our citizens find the most plausible question and how they spend their people's money. I'd like you to brief me on how it happens and how the government works, what we've come up with, how the spending on the government's authorities, primarily the President's administration, the ministries, has grown radically over the course of the year. For example, in support of the President's administration, funding has been increased by one and a half times, and it has led to nearly 75 million. The same is true in virtually every ministry. Moreover, each ministry or agency was largely given money in the last days of the last months of the year. Is there any argument here that this was done specifically to make use of the funds?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for asking. I would really like to point out that this government was the first in the history of statehood in all, who dared to lower the minimum wage. You remember that in December of this year, using the argument that we do not have the funds, that the budget will not be executed, that we do not have the funds to restore the ratio that you, the national deputies, have to vote to take away the wages and take those coins, even though Ukraine today, even in the only economic space to which this government has brought us, takes the last place on the income and on the average wage and on the minimum wage. And we all pretend to be going to Europe. I would like to remind you that the minimum wage criteria to consider joining the European Union are $300 -- minimum wage and at least $100 -- pension. I'm reminding you that we have 100 dollars is the average wage. I'm not talking about the pensions that this government's decided to reduce, I'm not talking about. A key figure, I would like to think, dear friends, in 2003 the population of Ukraine was reduced by almost 400,000. At the same time, the number of budgeters was increased by 13.5,000, including under the authority of the government, despite a direct ban on the State Budget Act, additional posts were introduced in the central authorities and local self - government bodies, which measure more than four thousand persons. I'm absolutely convinced that by lowering the minimum wage from 237 dollars to 205, they usually didn't think about people, they thought about themselves. Because I can give you an interesting enough figure that the salary in the government's apparatus, including the Ministry of Finance, including the State Tax Administration. Today, it is significantly higher than the cost of living. And think about it, your esteemed radio audience, that today the average official, the head of the department, gets a salary, not a salary, but a premium of 2.5-3 grand. That's right. Of course, with such a salary, we may not worry about how a rural teacher, librarian, doctor, or colporteur will live. And that's how the government reports on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u57	Vladimir Pehota, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u58	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, of course I would like to be pleased that you are raising the authority of the Committee on Budgets. But the Council's objectivity is to say what we have to say about the people who did it, the people who raised the economy, and the people who made it possible for this budget to happen, and you to count with us, the members of the Committee on Budgets. So today you forgot to name positively the same Janukovich, the same Burjak, the same Teryochina and others, and for some reason you attributed glory to yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u59	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u60	And the budget always reflects the economy, not the other way around. The accountant has never done everything before, and he's done the math.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u61	Absolutely right, absolutely right Vladimir Yuliyovich. I forgot to thank you and I apologize and correct this mistake. Respectable entrepreneurs, respected business executives, respected manufacturers who earn this GDP, are your own people. And the government of Yanukovich has nothing to do with this. They didn't do it. [[Applause]] You did this, not because of them, but because they prevented you from earning money in the instability of tax legislation. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u62	Oleg Grachev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u63	Petr Aleksevich, Petr Aleksevich! I have two questions for you. But before I ask you a question, I would like to remind you that this is a budget that has been falsified by the budgetary committee, as you remember. So I have two questions. First, do you not remember who voted in favour of this budget and, in particular, how the faction represented you voted? And the second issue that I have submitted the amendment bill has been considered by the budgetary committee in my absence without warning me. Why is there such a practice? Indeed, the justification there, by the way, was stated in my draft, how the budget articles, the income articles, were being completed. You're there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u64	I got it. We invite the drafters. Since your bill has not yet been considered in the session room, if you insist as an author, we welcome you to the next meeting of the budget committee. We can go back to this question if there is the will of the members of the budget committee to listen to your argument and make appropriate adjustments to the decision. I thank you very much, my dear colleague, for reminding me that I forgot to say this in the speech, a huge soap opera that was prepared in Banking and which was repulsed without having any reason, because the budget was executed, the budget scandal was conceived, and so today in the report we have seen this one more time. And once again, who voted in favour of this budget? Including 55 billion members of the budget committee and a "some" head, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, who is proud of what has to do with the Ukrainian State Budget 2003 Act and has nothing to do with its implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u65	Istvan Geidosh, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u67	Gregory Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to remind and make it clear that we voted on the 2003 budget as proposed and prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and introduced to the Supreme Council, because this is its mandate. You were brilliant in speaking as the leader of a party fighting for power. But as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to say that today's discussion is taking place in the 2003 budget report, not on a professional basis, but on a political basis. And that's why I'd like to ask you a question. In today's session, the question is, "Report on the Implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act", a report by the Minister of Finance and a co-report by the Head of the Budget Committee. When Possible
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u69	Thank you, Georgi Mikolaiovich, for reminding you that the budget was actually introduced by the government. This is in line with the budgetary code procedure. Unfortunately, Georgi Mikolaiovich, you did not visit very often during the budget process of the Budget Committee, and you do not know that the budget submitted by the Government has been thoroughly worked out. As a matter of fact, I gave the numbers. The budget was given at 50 billion, it was finally accepted. First by Kinakh, then by 49, then by 50. After all, it was accepted and implemented at 55 billion. This is the difference. And indeed, the members of the Budget Committee -- and I emphasize and emphasize -- and the government, because then a bold decision was made. Then, when there was no majority, there was a compromise, a courageous decision was made when the arguments of the Budget Committee were taken and when a compromise, coordinated work reached those figures that were voted on in the Supreme Council. And then, as it's done, I've already stressed that we were calculating the GDP growth budget at 4.8 percent, the GDP went up by 9.4 percent, the budget went up and 4 billion dollars were stolen from the budget. were merged by the VAT compensation mechanism and other mechanisms to which a certain political power relates, including the one that asks questions. I don't call her not to give you the right to gossip.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u70	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u71	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, last September you attended an agrarian committee meeting where you agreed together to compensate for the death of 300 million gravel in the winter. Under the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers, these funds were directed to fertilizer companies. We have information that no one has ever suffered from the death of an osmium has received any kilograms, not tons of fertilizer. Please tell me if you have any data on where these funds were shared from those factories that produced fertilizers and were supposed to supply them to peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u72	I thank you very much for this extremely painful question, which describes the crisis that has arisen in the agricultural field. You know very clearly, your colleagues, that in this year, 16 million people living in the village today, after this government's activities, have become much poorer. The average wage in the village is average! - below the minimum guaranteed by law. Instead of actually taking steps to support, including funding for the directions you've raised in your question, we've put the peasant into the following conditions for today's day. Seeds have grown nearly 3-4 times, plant protection products ranging from 40 to 70 percent. The fuel cost 1,600, and today the diesel fuel costs 2700-2,800 dollars. New technology has gone from 20 percent to 100 percent. And in these conditions, farmers are forced to sow, having to harvest crops in conditions where the price for agricultural production does not rise even in iodine. We have thus simply brought the village into absolute bankruptcy, and the government has found itself in a situation where even when we offered it after the agrarian crisis, the Supreme Council has agreed with the government: but please, 1 billion dollars; identify the most painful points that we can overcome those crises that have arisen as a result of weather conditions, I can argue that the efficiency of using these funds not only on the winter program, but also on other programs has been under great doubt. And today the village is forced to take a beggarly position. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u73	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u74	Dear head! We are very happy with your civic courage and high qualifications. Not often do we listen to such reports or reports, but questions arise. You're right to say that four billion, at least, the government was kidnapped and sunk in the shadows, 800 million social investment subsidies that the Supreme Council was supposed to be controlling to gasify the village, committed to building administrative palaces, castles, stadiums and other disadvantages. Privatization is robbery, wages are down to 205 dollars minimum. All of this together, why do you not demand the resignation and mistrust of the government and the punishment of those who have passed the decree of secret 909 and 910?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budgets reviewed Regulations 509 and 510, prepared and made appropriate decisions for consideration by the Supreme Council, which provide for the suspension of funding under Regulations 509 and 510, amending the State Budget Act, which provides for mandatory agreement with the Supreme Council on the financing of investment funds. It's not the competence of the budgetary committee to resign the government, it's the competence of the Supreme Council. And each of you, as a national MP on the basis of the information that was given today, can do so. But it's the last digit. This is a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers, which came at the request of the Head to the Supreme Council, where it says to blacks in white that the main gain that the government has -- GDP growth -- is written, I quote literally, "The branches that show high rates of economic growth are export-oriented, they create different trends. And that's why they're contributing to GDP growth, and on the other hand, they're contributing to government budget deficits. That is, what the government is proud of, that it has achieved a record increase in GDP is actually damaging to the state budget, it's reducing. That's what we've been up to. And they're writing it to the Supreme Council. That's why political evaluations are not a matter for the Budget Committee. We responded to the report. The Committee on Budgets decided at its meeting where it was recommended that the report be approved. [[15 votes out of 30 present]] But can we confirm it in terms that I've given you all of these arguments -- to be determined by you, honourable national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u76	Thank you. Time's up. Peter Alexiovich, sit down. I invite you to report to the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonek Valentino Kostinović. Please, in 10 minutes, Valentin Costinovich. Dear colleagues, let us consult. In the discussion, the heads of MPs and factions may first speak. How long? Maybe in five minutes? Is there any objection to the performance? And then committees and deputies in writing. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected members of the Government! The Court of Auditors carried out an evaluation of the implementation of Ukraine's State budget for 2003, and examined in detail the impact of the country's economic and social development indicators. The findings of the Court of Auditors are presented in the Supreme Council, the Government and distributed to the deputies. That is why allow me to address the question of implementation of the State budget in the past year. First. Systematic failures in forecasting key macroeconomic indicators for economic development, monetary indicators, lack of interaction, conflicting debt policies that lack a clear legal framework did not ensure transparency in the implementation of the State budget. Provide for the manual management of public finances, in violation of budgetary legislation. Here, the esteemed Poroshenko spoke of the projections made by the budget committee. But, distinguished people's deputies, remember our expertise on the 2003 draft budget, where we said in detail, on all incomes, that the budget needed to increase the 48 billion gross earnings by at least 9 billion dollars. In order to avoid the humiliatingly debilitating income figure that was planned for 2003. Second. The budget is not carried out in itself. He organizes and executes his Government, and especially Minfin. According to the audit, the Government's legislative and regulatory action to enforce the State Budget Act last year was unsatisfactory. The requirements of the five articles of the Act remained unfulfilled. The budget implementation was adversely affected by the timely development and approval by the Government of the necessary documents and provisions under individual articles of the Act. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers has taken a number of decisions, over twenty, to implement the budget in violation of existing legislation, and has made changes to the order and purpose of the use of funds. We are asked why there is an illegal tendency to increase payments to government officials. Third. On economic growth and budgeting. Almost all nationals know about the progress made in economic development. This is widely, I would say, good news to all the media, especially about record GDP growth. The numbers are really impressive. But the growth in GDP has resulted in four, five sectors of the economy, which mainly export to the majority through raw materials and semi-manufacturing. Much of the output of industrial products is achieved through increased debt for raw materials and materials. I'd like you to pay attention to that figure. The cost of a national product worth 264 billion grevens represents the debt of enterprises for the raw materials and materials used. I will stress that the debt for spent energy resources at the end of last year was 16 billion grevens. Nearly nine billion grevens of planned profits have been lost by enterprises. This resulted in a loss of budget income of 2.7 billion. Regrettably, the budget losses of $2 billion,400 million in revenue as a result of the use of donor systems in external economic activities. And this system continues to increase the muscles, the muscles to disembowel the budget from the State budget. Businesses and entire industries work for the intermediary, remaining wasteful and not producing almost any income to the State budget. This is primarily a light, nutritious, tobacco industry and a number of others. As in previous years, the concession tax system has significantly hampered the increase in the financial resources of the budget. Direct budget losses amounted to more than 40 billion grevens, representing 54 per cent of the income of the consolidated budget. A number of tax benefits are not economically justified and are presented in addition to the expenditure portion of the budget. Only through Titanic efforts do I ask this question in pencils, write-offs and deferrals has it been possible to reduce indiscretion to the original size of 14 billion bracelets. Last year, however, about three billion fines were written off by the tax authorities, 3.4 times higher than in 2002. In summary, it can be argued that the income part of the budget has been realized, not by economic growth, but by economic growth. Compared to the previous year, the real income of the State budget fell by almost three per cent and the underprivilegedness increased by almost three per cent. And I'm here, frankly, with respect to Nikolai Janovich, I can't understand your saying that's not true. Mr. Jaroshenko and Mr. Mirkovsky have looked closely at both the methodology and the system of calculations. I'm going to take this calculation that all or almost all of Minfin's employees have checked, and I'm going to put it on the table so that you can get to know each other personally. Yes, the real income of the budget fell by almost three per cent in 2003 compared to 2002. Fourth. The social quality of the economy remains low. In 2003, inflation was 108.2 per cent against the provision of 106. But food prices rose by almost 11 per cent. The standard of living in Ukraine remains the lowest in Europe. In 2003, the minimum wage was, as you know, only 51.2 per cent of the subsistence minimum. Fifth. Public finance management, despite the Government's continued completion of the automatic execution of the budget spending, is actually the manual execution package. Nothing else can be explained by the constant changes in the budget schedule and the reduction in expenditure of nine months in the amount of more than one billion bracelets. And one billion more. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. Expenditures were simply reduced when the funds were made available. This is on the condition that the money in the State budget accounts was sufficient. Treasury reports were made monthly on the existence of a surplus. The balances in the accounts amounted to between two and seven billion bracelets. For nine months, the average monthly budget was 3 billion, and in December it was 9 billion. At the end of the year, 2 billion 300 million bracelets remained unutilized at all, with no serious social problems, including an increase in the minimum wage, being resolved throughout the year. And we were told there was no money in the budget. The unwarranted establishment at the end of the year of the free balances of the State budget is essentially a reserve for the 2004 budget, as this amount is not included in the income portion. You will consider now or after that hearing a change in the 2004 budget. Almost 60 projects, but no project sees and proposes that these billions be added to the income portion of the budget, although they must be part of the budget. Another consequence of this budgetary management is the increase in receivables, which reached 1 billion dollars per year on 1 January. Inefficient use of public debt funds. Consider, first of all, the need for 1 billion gruels is greater, second of all, rather than early repayment of the debt from these funds, the resources remain unutilized. Finally, I would like to emphasize that the facts and figures that the Court of Auditors has produced in carrying out the 2003 State budget have been verified by both the Ministry of Finance and the Committee of Budgets and no constructive proposals. There was no constructive objection. I strongly hope that the Government's budget implementation activities will be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u78	Please, how much time does it take to finish your speech? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u79	In the end, those peer-to-peer budgetary policy issues will be resolved, otherwise it will be repeated again, and we will live with you with the poverty budget for 2005, without solving any mature social programmes on the development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. There are no questions for the head of the Court of Auditors. As we agreed, heads of MPs and factions will speak first. We have 60 minutes to discuss. But if there's any insistence, we're going to continue to consider this issue a little bit. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Get ready, Pehoti. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you in five minutes to allow faction leaders to express their position, the faction's position, more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. The 2003 budget analysis shows the real price paid by the people of Ukraine for the so - called reforms. With all the growth, growth, and performance that we are trying to convince, the lives of most Ukrainians have simply deteriorated and worsened, including in 2003. Every seventh citizen of Ukraine receives a minimum wage, 87 percent of pensioners receive pensions below the minimum wage, and over 10 million are below the poverty line. In addition, seven million working people are seeking a better share abroad, filling other countries’ budgets. In the 2003 budget, only 13 billion dollars were spent on social protection and social security — $50 per capita, including babies. I'd like to compare that in 1990, these revenues were $1.2,000, 24 times more than the citizens of Ukraine today. At the same time, 9.6 billion dollars, or more than 17 percent of the income, are allocated to public debt repayment and servicing. Then the question is not rhetorical: It is the budget of either Ukraine or of the Pacific benefactors. It's not uncommon for me to think that the United States is so persistent in terms of monitoring the process of preparing and conducting the electoral campaign. They know which last scroll must be torn from the people of Ukraine. Cynical references to increased assimilation to education and health care seem to be useful. Students and patients with empty wallets paid 4.3 billion dollars for education and treatment last year, and the government considers these funds to be government funding. Everyone also remembers that the budget is not a budget for the people of Ukraine, but a budget used by the oligarchs to personally meet the needs and protect their own capital and sources of their fulfillment. In terms of stimulating technological production, energy-efficient technologies, increasing domestic competitiveness, this is practically useless in the 2003 budget. Traditionally underfunded fuel-energy complex, rural, forest, fish farming, defense, industry. In our view, these are the main reasons. First of all, the current state of the economy is that in all the loud statements of economic growth, it is really determined by its criminal privatization, the destruction of the agri-industrial complex and so-called reforms in all directions. In view of the depth of the gap that radical market reforms have plunged into, the average citizen will soon experience some improvement in his standard of living. It's different. During 13 years of reform, the foundation for addressing acute social problems has virtually been destroyed. And the private sector of the economy is criminally self-sustaining. The implementation of the Yushchenka government in 2001 was also an interesting form -- the abolition of the social guarantees of individual categories of citizens -- which led to 17 billion dollars being stolen from citizens in the budget last year. The wage in the structure of production today is 13 percent as in developed market countries up to 70 percent, the low wage rate in 2003 was 87 dollars in Ukraine, while in Russia it was 196, Belarus it was 115 and much more could be cited. The Communist faction believes that the minimum wage should be raised to 340-420 dollars this year, so we can solve specific issues. Unjustified tax benefits continued in 2003. And look, if the budget went up what we talked about here, one and a half times, then the number of sector benefits is 2.6 times. These benefits are for the oligarchs, not for the people of Ukraine. Again and again, I want to address all of us national deputies present in this room. We have to answer, "Who voted in favour of this budget? Who speaks most loudly today about the impact of this budget, its implementation, and what they did to get this budget approved?" Thus, the 2003 budget is based on poverty and social falsification. Communist MPs can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u82	The word is Pehota Vladimir Juliusovich, a faction of the "Regions of Ukraine". Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u83	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The question that is being considered today at our session was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets. Of the 30 registered and 26 present at the time of the vote, 15 members of the committee voted in favour of the 2003 State Budget Report. I also voted in favour, based on an objective evaluation of the implementation of the overall fund’s planned indicators, both by income and by expenditure. I came out that I always have to take into account what's desirable and what's possible. In addition, it should be borne in mind that this is the only budget for all the years of independence that has actually been implemented, and that is why it has the right to approve. All previous reports were not approved for the very reason that the budget itself had not been implemented. One more thing to say is that today he had objectivity in his report, but there was more politics. Unfortunately, politics now prevails not only in the budget but also in the economy as a whole. And we can have the effects that we had during the great economic collapse that happened to our Ukraine, and it's only today that we're starting some kind of uplift from the momentum that's been going on. Today, objectively speaking, however, it should be said to the positive budget of 2003 that the liquidation of arrears on the budget, the payment of scholarships, the financial support of military personnel, the liquidation of debts on payments to families with newborn children, many children and children with disabilities. Is that a lot or a lot? This is certainly not enough, for the budget itself is poor. Because today the economy is unable to provide the budget that would be needed for our entire social sphere. In 2003, there was an increase in local budget expenditure, which is positive, and in all articles, compared with 2002. However, there is no elimination of debt to the Chernobyl population, which has been strongly discussed today, even though it has declined twice in the reporting year. And individual principals did not get the budget loans that went away in the fourth quarter. In my opinion, these and other shortcomings can be taken into account in the development of fiscal policy for 2005. I propose to approve the report on the implementation of Ukraine's 2003 State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u84	Thank you. The word from the Hard Ukraine faction has a national MP, Noshchenko, to prepare Pinzenika.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u85	Dear Chief, Honourable People's Deputies, Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, Hard Ukraine faction. Repeatedly in this room, the government has informed us, the national MPs, the public, about the work in 2003, and we always hear criticism from the government about the understatement of the 2003 budget. Yet, let us keep in mind how the budget was drawn up at the end of 2002. Decreasing economic growth, deflationary trends, non-implementation of fiscal parameters on income and expenditure, other gaps. Of course, such conditions would lead to social tensions. In addition, you and I, the high-ranking electorate, have added to the problem by increasing the subsistence minimum immediately after the adoption of the budget, which is definitely unacceptable in terms of legislation. Almost no one today mentions that it was this government, the Janukovic government, that insisted on withdrawing the 2003 State Budget project, that it was reworked with us, with the MP Corps, and that it increased by almost 9 billion. That's right. We have the result. Again, quickly, constructively, we worked to refine the budget figures in May 2003, when it came to supporting agriculture, to increase the cost of wages. For the first time in years of independence, the planned overall fund performance is ensured, both by income and by expenditure. This is particularly true of the general fund financed by social programs. Liquidated current debt from salaries, scholarships and maintenance of military personnel, prior-year debts to families with newborn children, multi-child families, disabled children, disabled children. During 2003, the total debt of Chernobyl programmes was halved. Yeah, that's good. But the government and the Ministry of Finance need to increase the efficiency of budget use. We've talked about this a number of times. Billion dollars go to support individual sectors. The faction will insist on budget support, for example, in the village of the Ukrainian farmer rather than on the purchase of Ukrainian products. By doing so, we support, not the manufacturer, but the traders who buy in cash at the expense of those who are involved in the price hikes discussed today. In 2003, there was little room for farmers, new farms, personal agriculture, and this to be remembered. The faction supports the beginnings that in 2004, when a government grant goes to a unit of production. And that's the right thing to do. Another example. Almost undetected saw an increase in coal prices in June of last year for household needs of almost 20-30 percent, I asked that question. I will point out that this has taken place from the initiative of the chief fund manager since the bidding and the filing of contracts. This has worsened the budgets of thousands of Ukrainian families. And the question is, why did this happen by 20 percent? These are the additional costs of the State budget for subsidies and benefits to the population in fact last year. And finally, what do we have this year? Taking into account the budgetary constraints of the State budget, we went to a reduction in the fuel standard for the population. There were two tons, one and a half tons, and so we can get to the absurdity that we will carry fuel buckets into the Ukrainian family. The question is: where are our control bodies, the control audit office, which scares the scarecrows every time, the accounting, specialized department of economic, law enforcement, the principle of district government administrations, the representatives on the left today in bed. Please respond and do your utmost to ensure that the prices for products that make up the family’s budget for life do not rise. In general, the faction believes that the 2003 budget implementation report of the government needs to be supported and approved. As for the projects, I propose to put to the vote a project that the government has put to the vote and to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose that we do not fall short of the good rhythm we have taken and work without interruption. Is there no objection? Then please have the floor of the People's Deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, faction of "Our Ukraine". Prepare the Voisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u87	Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Honorable MPs, distinguished members of the government! I have often had to talk from this rostrum about serious government manipulations with the budget and the fact that the government is hiding budget funds. We state that this year, in the budget this year, the amount of hidden revenue in the budget is not less than 10 billion dollars. Money and at least five billion hidden incomes under the Pension Fund. We argue that this is not a coincidence, that this is the norm of the policy of an active government. And this is a beautiful illustration of the Budget, which is what we're looking at right now. Please note this diagram: the government has submitted a draft budget of 47.1 billion to us for approval. Despite the statements made by the faction of our Ukraine, the budget committee on underincome and the need to channel them to social spheres, we have heard from the government that this is unacceptable, that we can't raise wages or pensions. The Supreme Council approved the budget - 50 billion. That's right. The budget implemented is 55 billion. Five billion more than was approved in the original version. We could talk about this if the deviation were 1-2 billion. Now, please tell me that these are the calculations where the deviation from the government's project is 20 percent. It's a lovely pardon. To find out what was going on, what was the government's policy, I want you to pay attention to the next diagram, the next graph. This compares two columns. First, what we originally approved was a budget of 50 billion and where, in fact, the cost of the budget was directed. These materials clearly show the antisocial, antinational nature of the budget, and where additional funds were allocated. Don’t think about looking for an increase in social costs. As the budget increased by 7.8 percent, payments to doctors, teachers, and military personnel increased by only 5.5 percent. But the capital cost is 32.2. The nation’s stocks have increased by 2.3 times. Do not expect to find social orientation at other costs. On average, subsidies increased by 10.8 percent. Please turn back. Please return the schedule. . Grants have been increased by 35 percent to the population (this is about pensions, assistance, scholarships, up to 3.6 percent). With an average increase in capital expenditure of 32 percent, housing has been increased by 19.5 percent, but building administrative buildings has increased by 8.5 times. Note that the construction of administrative buildings was estimated at 73.6 million, and 625 million dollars were spent. The cost of repairing administrative buildings is increased by 67.3. In the direction of the budget, it is perfectly clear that there is no money for wages and pensions in today’s government, the whole increase in money has gone where the money is divided by the law, and the idea of where their garbage can be. How are such things possible? The technology will deceive you, the national MPs, and all the Ukrainian citizens: the budget is understated, and this is not the first year. In the following, it is specified for actual execution. I would like to remind you that last year's budget refinement took place on November 18th, when expenditure per year has already been made. And in these circumstances, talking about having socially protected articles of expense is a lie to people and a lie to themselves. In view of the faction "Our Ukraine" presented, it is necessary to reject the government's report and accept its work in the execution of the budget as unsatisfactory. The faction insists on the inadmissibility of repeating this year’s budget situation and hiding at least 15 billion dollars from citizens, and on the immediate consideration of the bill that we have passed on the use of these funds to raise wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u88	Vojsz, faction of SDPU (o). Prepare Nicholas from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, when assessing the implementation by the Government of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003 of the SDPI(o) faction comes first of all from the undeniable fact that for the first time in years of independence the implementation of the State Budget has been achieved by both income and expenditure. This has become possible in terms of a fundamental improvement in the macroeconomic situation, an accelerated increase in GDP by 9.4 percent and industrial production by 15.8 percent, an increase in real wages by 15.2 percent. We cannot agree with those who view these indicators solely as an expression of a favorable economic situation. Of course, this is largely the credit of an active government, the result of its deliberate policy. The faction of SDPU(o) also does not share the views of those who link the successful implementation of the 2003 budget to the fact that it has a reduced GDP growth forecast. I would like to remind you that the budgets of 2000 and 2001 also contained forecasts of an increase in GDP, which were several times lower than its actual growth. But then no one asked the question that the government was hiding budget revenues or trying to make budget implementation easier. It is clear to each expert that there is no direct link between increasing GDP and increasing fiscal income, such as tax taxes, debt cancellation in the event of bankruptcy, and many others. What's fundamental is that the budget was implemented in moderate inflation, that is, not because of the undervaluation of social benefits and citizens' incomes, as was the case in 2000, for example. The strengthening of the social orientation of the implementation of the 2003 budget is particularly important for the SDR. 100 percent of social spending funding was provided. In some areas, however, it has been possible to provide a real, high - quality breakthrough. Yes, the General Fund of the State Health Budget has allocated 8.5 billion dollars, more than the previous year’s 31 percent. For education, 11.8 billion dollars is allocated or more than 27 percent in the previous year. Local budget transfers are provided by 100 percent. And they got 4.2 billion dollars of revenue. At the same time, the faction of SDPI(o) notes that the system of payment of work in the budgetary field is still quite imperfect. Nor can we, of course, be set up by a situation that occurred in 2003 with the repayment of VAT debts. A tax malnourishment situation. Nor can it be disturbed that in 2003 the problem of indebtedness to schoolchildren was never resolved under article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. This problem has to be solved and a bill on the restructuring of the debt from these payments has been prepared and submitted to the Supreme Council a year ago for consideration by the members of the People's Deputies. However, in general, the faction of the SDPI(s) considers the implementation of the 2003 State Budget to be a success of the government and proposes to approve the government's report. I would like to say a few more words about the ruling given today to the deputies in the room under which there are the signatures of the members of the Committee on Budgets. Mr. Poshenko's speech is indeed a political position, but not a position of head of the budget committee, because, as head of the budget committee, he had to express those issues that were discussed on the budget committee and those assessments that he recognized as a budget committee. So on the budget committee, it was decided to approve the government's report in the form of the government's decision. Today we have a completely different solution. Deputy Kaletnik withdrew his signature from this version of the ruling. I didn't sign this solution, but we have an option in the hall today. This is the manipulation of the head of the budget committee by the signatures of the members of the budget committee. That is why I propose to accept today's vote in favour of the government's report and to accept that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u90	Thank you. Stanislaw Nikolainko of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Bandurca.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u91	Nikolainka, the Socialist faction of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would like to say that when I listened carefully to the reports and the reports, there was an expression of the Orthodox pillar of Philareth that said long ago that the deep misery was the time when all talked about the flaws but did nothing to improve the situation could not. We certainly had to live in that miserable time. Let's make sure that we move on to a happy future. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is very critical of the situation in our country today. And this is a very interesting situation. Look. We're the best in Europe today, and certainly in the world, even with China here at the forefront. But if you look very carefully at what's going on, it's already been happening -- more than two thirds of our production in the inner gross product -- is the raw material of the ingredient. And high-tech scientific output is 0.3 percent. Every 20 companies today only use innovative technologies. This is because we have an innovative direction that is actually being turned into a state. I would like to say how all of these growths and budget executions, which were done three times in our time, were not implemented, and then, by the end of January, it was overturned. To do that, all you have to do is look at our ruined villages, our dusty fields, thousands of beggar children who walk through the train stations, their tired faces of pensioners who don't know where to spend that miserable penny, either on medicine or on bread or whatever. I'd like to say that budget execution actually didn't do anything for people. We think that the budget is actually done on the basis of digital manipulations. Because if you look very realistically, the budget could not be implemented, just call it 7 billion bracelets today -- it's a lack of VAT. If it had been paid, 10 percent of the budget would not have been implemented. A superliberal model of economics is being implemented in Ukraine. [[is very concerned about socialists.]] In the past year, 28 percent of the domestic gross product was redistributed through the budget. While in developed countries, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, France, and so forth, almost 40 percent are redistributed through the budget. The level of social pay in the same Poland is several times higher than in Ukraine. One Ukrainian spends $320 today, one Russian spends more than 800, on Polish 2000 and so on. We're implementing a superliberal rigid capitalist model. You see, that's what you and I are leading to. For the first time in the last year, the tax on income from physical citizens was higher than the corporate tax, which is that we transferred the tax burden to a person today, and we say that we are doing well. I'd like to say, and that's what my colleague Alexander Baranowski was talking about. We've increased the amount of taxation into the legislative base by 9 billion, and we've got and re-enacted the budget by just about 7 billion. You look at the cost of what we do: we have half of it in the shadow of the economy. And I guess so. Education. We're not ashamed, we're sitting here in the hall and in the government when we canceled the 1-3 classes. What health of the nation will we talk about, and of what success? But during the war, children were fed. Article 57. God is righteous, where children will be smart if we do not reach the teacher today and the teacher comes to school and gets less living. Article 57, which allows at least a little pay raise, is ignored! Miserably, Mikola Janović did not mention the solution to the problem. 108 thousand lawsuits in the teachers ’ courts because they want their wages paid legally. Why the laws are made by four, including mine. The first law was introduced more than a year ago on compensation for article 57, a defined order and a mechanism, and so far no consideration has been given. The socialists are deeply concerned about this situation. We are also concerned that article 24 of the Constitution is not being fulfilled that all people should be equal in their political rights. Why majors who have been chosen by opposition forces have no funds directed to their districts. What, I have in my district today, in Lower Sirogosa, or in Halantzak, or in Gornostiev, people without water have to sit or in Genichensk because of what I am, not another MP. Mikolo Janovich, I beg of you, convincingly! And you say vote for the budget. It's my right to vote for the budget or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u92	Alexander Bandurka from the Democratic Initiative Group. People's power." Please. Get ready, Bunny. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u93	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The government of Yanukovich can be treated differently. The state budget is always, above all, a political document. But the positive dynamics in the implementation of the State Budget over the past few years are obvious. And this is one of the merits of today’s government, even though it deserves a number of criticisms. That's why we're talking about the same flaws. Yes, despite the overall overturning of the plan, both from income and budget expenditure, since the state budget expenditure is 100.1 per cent, the State budget has left underfunded spending extremely important for the country. For example, economic activity is funded by 93 percent; scientific research is 95 percent of the approved volume; spiritual and physical development is 98 percent; vocational and technical education, which is in decline, needs literally recovery, and is also underfunded. The implementation of the State Budget is provided largely by the own revenue of the budgetary institutions. What we call a "choice", a business of the economy. As a result, funds from the general fund are much lower. If we are to accelerate the development of our nation, the structural reconstruction of our country's economy, we must first reconsider our attitude toward financing education and science. Democratic Group faction, Democratic Initiatives. The people's government consistently advocates the need to increase spending on these areas. And our view is that such an increase must be reflected in the 2005 State Budget. There is also a problem with the implementation of the budget, which shows that local budgets are not enough to fill. For example, the total expenditure of the budget has been incurred by only 95 percent and virtually all expenditures have remained underfunded. Yes. Basic research is funded by 93 percent, defense 94 percent, health 98 percent, education 96 percent, law enforcement 95 percent. Thus, the poorer implementation of local budgets is obviously evidenced by the imperfections of regional financial policies, and this is further confirmation of the need to change budgetary legislation in order to redistribute budgetary resources to the benefit of the regions. And here he has to speak his word to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in legislation. We can talk about the fact that the percentage of deviation from the planned amount by law is not significant, but everything is compared and recognized in comparison. If you are in 2001 the cost of fundamental research was much lower, it was about 79 percent, culture 64, health 80. Compared, you can talk about improvement, but there are no boundaries for improvement, and so the MP group I represent thinks that direct spending is extremely important, and the cost of education, science, medicine should be greatly increased in the future budget, because they determine the future of our nation. An increase in the proportion of local budgets in the budgeted budget should be our strategic goal, and we will insist on this when we approve the main thrusts of budgetary policy for next year. Overall, budget implementation in 2003 is much better than in previous years. I say again that Yanukovich can be treated differently. It's everyone's right. But what the government did was better, of course. That's why the Democratic Initiatives MP group. People's government thinks we can support the government and approve the execution report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u94	Yes, thank you, Alexander Markovich. Zaszczo is invited to the floor by the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Get Gabrieluk ready from the Centre.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u95	Victor Rabbit, 225th District, town of Sevastopol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The budget issue is discussed again. And I draw the conclusion to myself of the words that, at the end of my statement, the President of the Court of Auditors said: "It will be repeated again." Why do I have to say this? Indeed, because the budget is indeed not just a financial and economic State document, it is our common desire today, through this document, to realize the problems that we are taking at this time. More than eight to twelve years old, 35 per cent of those sitting in this room say what they said eight to ten years ago. He's never done any of the sittings in this room. I ask the question of how much pain we can talk about, the love of the people from this rostrum, and the beating of ourselves that we are righteous without seeing what our main strategic goals and goals are. The third budget of the third year, it was characterized by what? In that, indeed, the Government, and I sincerely wish to say, Nikolay Janović Azarov and the Chairman of the Committee, Poroshenko, for the first time, sat down to look not at a political document, but to work carefully, determined those parameters that might not have been intended to be realized in the third year. He certainly could not please us, nor our electorate as a whole, but nevertheless that we were able to realize together, because not the State was responsible to the people, but the two branches of government were responsible for the supreme legislative and executive body entrusted with the legislative body. In my view and in the view of those regional politicians working in local self-government, the third-year budget was characterized by the fact that for the first time the State had turned to regional policies, to local budgets. Not only were we able to implement 100 per cent of the budget's public, transparent commitment to local authorities, but we were able to resolve the issues that had been adopted in terms of remuneration for budget workers, and not only the minimum wage, but we have addressed for the first time the imbalance that has been the destruction in the budget area among workers for many years. We were able to address the critical issue of relaunching investment programmes for regional policy. And most of the people sitting in this room have been able to carry out their actual orders over the years, both in the gasification of villages and in the rehabilitation of many budgetary institutions. That's a positive. And speaking of the 2003 budget, I would like to say that, when we look at the faction of the People's Democratic Party and look at the factions of industrialists and entrepreneurs, we have indeed concluded that this is a common approach of the State: to take this path and to go abroad. However, I would like to point out that the Government has not been able to resolve certain issues. This is primarily the payment of taxes at the place where the payers are located; this is a matter of today of the lack of financial benefits that continue to occur in our State. This has made it possible to further aggravate the situation of transport, housing and utilities enterprises due to the underfunding of these benefits. We should be working on this issue this year, and today we are addressing policy issues in 2005. In closing, I would like to say how the question of “reporting on the budget completed” and our discussion on future budgeting issues should differ. This discussion will be held for three hours, considering the budget policy for 2005 and giving some powers and tasks to the Government today to formulate the 2005 budget. And speaking of the 2003 budget, we can say frankly and honestly: we have done what we planned, and in this regard there is a proposal for our faction to approve the budget, very much so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u96	Yes, Basil Gavriluk of the Deputy Group "Centre". Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Today we are considering a serious issue with you, and there is something to say to our group, because in fact the Cabinet of Ministers has worked both flaws and positive. But regardless of our will today, the executive power has created such a situation when, at the same time, while inviting close cooperation, on the other hand, they are trying, without exception, to many of the people's deputies and to say more specifically, the members of our group have a strong impact on the people's deputies. When the executive, looking at us honestly in the face, tries to invite us to a constructive position, assures us that the executive power needs the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, at the same time, the control forces have gone around the country, what do they call it? What is it? Cynicism? Hypocrisy? Disregarding the rule of law? A bet on brute force? I emphasize that the Centre Group is ready for constructive work, it is neither on the right nor on the left, it is at the centre, and that is why we are working with everyone. But how can you understand when, in all enterprises and organizations where Ukrainian people's deputies from the “Centre” group have ever worked, when close relatives, relatives or relatives who have something to do with these enterprises have been subjected to mass checks and “distorting” their hands with one another. The aim is to compromise the people's deputies of Ukraine openly, harshly, without embarrassment. A financial institution came to check for 160 days. What are they going to be looking for? Once the check has been completed by the second round of elections. What will they report to the President? And the most important thing is to what president? And when it comes to the fact that the enterprise is working honestly, paying taxes, I believe that our group believes that this is a subversion to the economy of Ukraine. And in Stalin's day, they shot for it. You can't do that today. You cannot repeat the lessons of history that say that everything that is built on brute force ends sooner or later in the ruins of the Reichstag. These checks are literally organized by very many professional auditors. What do we have to do, colleagues? What, all financial withdrawal schemes for offshore financial instruments have ended? What, we're blocked from trying to buy Ukrainian strategic enterprises for nothing? We know with you that two or three strategic enterprises, selling them or privatizing them by law, can solve a number of social problems, including payment of contributions. No, we're trying to find even people. There are serious public figures in the government today. And the “Centre” MP, stressing that we are ready for constructive cooperation, will work and work with such colleagues and actors. But we state: First, stop the divide, and then let us talk about equal cooperation. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Centre of Deputies actively supports all the healthy and serious efforts that we have, but we cannot help but say that, given the economic growth figures that the Cabinet of Ministers is today trying to emphasize and say that it is their merit, our task to show that there are still enormous problems in local budgets, in social affairs and other critical areas, I would say, in the areas of activity, in the life of our State. However, respectable colleagues, because above all, our joint responsibility for these growth figures is not to lose sight of the importance that every Ukrainian on his/her own skin feel these supplements in his/her salary, in his/her pension, in order to ensure that every Ukrainian feels stable and confident on tomorrow, so that people are socially protected and protected from all kinds of indeterminates. Therefore, I would like to say that only joint, close, constructive work on the principles of morality, respect for one another, but that there is no force of influence, artificial influence on the people's deputies of Ukraine. The future, therefore, is only with such cooperation, for such joint work. Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, the “Centre” MP, requests this statement and this statement is considered an official request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u98	Basil Nadrag of the MP's "Soyuz." Prepare Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we are discussing, in my view, sometimes two topics. One topic, as we lived in 2003, and the second topic, how we implemented the 2003 budget. I think if there are people who can say that in 2003 we had no problems and life was amazing and beautiful, then at best it would be evil. But if we are talking about how we have implemented the 2003 budget, I must say that we are in the group discussing this subject, we believe that, in all the problems that exist today, we should generally recognize that the 2003 budget has been a qualitative, good, qualitative step towards all the budgets of previous years in fulfilling our obligations to the population. [[I'll stop at them later.]] I'll take literally two subjects. The first is social protection and social security. Yeah, there's been a lot of trouble. However, in 2003, for the first time in recent years, debt was paid to families with children and poor families, children with disabilities, children with disabilities, which amounted to 225 million as at 1 January 2003. I must tell you that, in all these matters, there was no such debt in the course of the year. I can tell for myself. I thought it was a good thing. Next moment. I must tell you that for the first time, they were fully listed in the local budgets, the money that was budgeted for the current year in the form of subsidies for the granting of benefits to war and labour veterans, the military service, the internal affairs bodies, the citizens who had suffered the Chernobyl disaster. I have to tell you, with a total of $3 billion,144 million. There is another figure, in my view, that is a sign that, in 2003, the debt of black people was reduced by EUR 117 million. Who has faced this category, who communicates with them, knows what such steps should be done. And maybe by distracting from the subject, I just want to say one thing, I would like to say that under the 2004 budget, the commitments made and the Supreme Council, the executive powers have closed in the final repayment of debts to the Chernobyl people. Believe me, colleagues, if we do this, we can say that half of the time that people trust us to sit in this room, we'll work. Therefore, debt repayment is a sacred duty. On the other hand, the problem is, with your permission, thorough. Yes, I have spoken of local self-government, and I must tell you that the public organization of local self-government, such as the congresses of regional authorities, the association of villages and villages in Ukraine, in their estimates, is saying that the 2003 budget was one of the best that has ever existed in the past 12 years in the area of local self-government. But, here are the questions, I'd like your permission to address these issues. First of all, this figure was called, last year, 392.9 million, which were received as an overrun of national income, were sent to the Territory. That's great, that's great, but there's a question. Why the Kiev area received 121.3 million, the first three names, the Czech Republic 67.7 million, and Zacarpatier 49.5 million.? As a result, three areas received more than 50 per cent of these funds. I would not like to insist that everything in these areas is excellent. But I have a question about why, the first one, the three gave more than half. A total of 13 regions were divided. Are the other fourteen regions out of our sight or are they great? I represent the Luhansk region in this Parliament. And what I'm trying to say is that it's the worst situation. But I believe that if that money were shared in a fair and proportionate manner, the Lugansk region would have received its own, in a good way, budget allocation. What is more, the discussion is that it is overworked as a part of the income. The next point I would like to highlight is: Unfortunately, in returning to the social sphere, I must say that we are saying that the income and expenditure budget has been implemented by more than 100 per cent. But respected colleagues, and why the social protection and social welfare of the population have met 100 per cent, i.e. less average, and education by 98.8 per cent. This is insane. Such things need to be covered and overworked in the first place. I would like to reiterate once again that there are too many things in the 2003 budget that make sense to adopt its rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u100	Thank you. Michael Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Prepare Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u101	Thank you very much. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government, are invited. The 2003 report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the State Budget is being processed by the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. During the exchange of ideas, factions have come to the conclusion that, during the reporting period, the government has largely managed to organize work on budgetary policies. In particular, I'm going to focus on financing the agri-industrial complex, because this is the most important issue for us. Taking into account the specificity of agriculture with its high level of risk to creditors and the characteristics of the production cycle, a number of measures have been taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to support the sector. And we need to prove it truthfully. Overall, the financial support of the agrarian sector in 2003 amounted to 2 billion dollars, a third more than in 2002 than the financial provision of targeted programmes in the APC increased 2.6 times. For the first time, I would like to point out that for the first time, the cost of the Agriculture Budget has been funded by a hundred percent. With understanding, the government supported our initiative to allocate additional funds from the budget to cope with the disaster, and we all remember well what happened in the winter and spring of 2003. This has greatly stabilized the situation, both in production and in the market for grain and food. In addition, last year the financial support of farmers was preserved through the tax system. First of all, it is the continuation of a fixed agricultural tax, which our peasants remember gratefully. But especially the tax-added tax regime. All of this allowed something in difficult weather conditions to stabilize the economy in the agri-industrial complex. Yet, respectable friends, colleagues, and the real need for help in the village were only 30 percent satisfied. Specially small for these purposes, apart from the State budget, were expenditures from local budgets, today there are heads of district councils present, 50 times less than from the State Budget. We should also talk about this. By no means did the gap between the city and the village continue to grow. The countryside is becoming increasingly unattractive. Social infrastructure is declining. And we have to say that today the government is responsible for 700 million dollars. a bracelet for built social objects in the village. We need to get this back on the spot. Labour outflows, and especially young people, are steadily increasing. This has a negative impact on farmers’ economic performance, the agricultural sector’s food security, and the peasant’s life in general. The only way to remedy such a situation is through serious State support. We believe that the amount of budget expenditure for these purposes, and we believe that in the next year, 2005, where we hope that the village will finally be declared a year, we need to allocate at least 7.5 billion dollars. That's right. In doing so, the situation can be substantially rectified this year by taking decisive steps to implement the newly adopted decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on these issues. The faction made appropriate proposals to the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, and we recently met with the first vice - prime minister of finance, and we hope that they will be taken into account when considering the second issue of the 2004 budget change, the second half of the year. At the same time, we believe that government support for the village should be built on a completely new basis -- direct subsidies and subsidies. Those deficient benefits that are being distributed to the village today are of no use. The faction recently announced this from the Supreme Council’s rostrum and would insist on the implementation of the proposals made. But what I'm saying is that the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party is proposing a government report on the implementation of the 2003 State Budget to be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u102	Alexander Turchinov from the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! It won't be a big exaggeration to say that all the government's achievements in fiscal policy were due to the monopoly of power on the media. Under the victorious government response to the budgetary achievements of last year, there were very serious shortcomings, and in most cases financial crimes. I will not repeat what my colleagues said by criticizing government policy last year. I'm just going to emphasize the main flaws that we can't ignore today. First of all, dear colleagues, it's a zero level of economic forecasting. This very vividly describes all government fiscal policies. The methodology that government officials used to predict the budget in 2003 can be called the "Sportlot method," in fact, did not guess any macroeconomic position. As an example, agricultural production declined by 10.2 percent. Agricultural enterprises accounted for 25.5 percent of the decline. At the same time, the government predicted a very serious increase in agricultural production. And other indicators: where it went down, it was predicted that it would go up, where it increased, it was projected that it would go down. Next. The increase in gross domestic product, which we've been told so many times, has been accompanied by a decrease in the profitability of the Ukrainian economy, an increase in the cost-effectiveness of enterprises. Consider: 47 percent of Ukraine’s businesses were bankrupt in 2003. The 35 billion dollars in debt increased by 9 billion in 2003, and the profitability of production decreased by 9 billion. At the same time, when you and I are experiencing problems today, let's say, in the fuel-energy market, when you and I feel an increase in the value of diesel, on gasoline, it's not the effect of some shooters who want to put this problem in motion today, it's the consequences of low-cost government economic policy, it's the lack of economic reserves, it's the damage of Ukrainian producers. Next: inflation. 40 percent of inflation in 2003 was higher than the government predicted. Compare this to an increase in our citizens' income, an increase in pensions -- and figure out how much better our citizens' lives have been. The lowest standard of living in Europe today is in Ukraine. At the same time, only 51 percent of the minimum wage is this beggarly standard of living. GDP, which has increased by 9.4 percent, has only increased by 2.9 percent of the budget's income. Where's the money, Mr. Azarov, where's the state's resources? Our conclusion, our faction: they're in the pocket of the criminal oligarchs who are now planning to convert him around the President into a third term. Next, dear colleagues: value added tax, famous VAT. He's lost his budgeting function, he's become a center of abuse, a center of corruption. 7.4 billion did not reimburse the State budget for the value added tax. If the State had fulfilled its obligations to manufacturers, we would be talking today about the complete collapse of fiscal policy. About the complete destruction of budgetary proportions. We've just decided traditionally not to give up money that actually does not belong to the government. At the same time, money was being returned to butterfly firms, money was being returned to specially designed enterprises to get this resource out of the budget, and government officials couldn't help but know. Next. Tax debt amounted to 3.5 billion dollars. He was reduced solely on the basis of the cancellation of that debt, not on the repayment of debts. There's still a lot to talk about, but the time, you see, is passing. I want to address the national MPs who are planning to vote in favour of the government report. You know, you're going to demonstrate an example of corruption and compare, I'm going to the media who's going to vote for this report. Those who got bribes for their own major districts. It is they who will demonstrate today that corruption has become our national program and it will be a public demonstration of the corruption of part of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u104	Yes, the statement by the factions and the MPs has been completed. He's a executioner. Turn on the microphone. A word for replication. One of the performances was called the Kaletnika. Please. Two performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. A Catholic, 15 constituency, a faction of Social Democrats. [[United]] I was reminded of the withdrawal of the signature. What I'm trying to say is that there's no perspective on the budget committee. The point is that the committee has no work regulations when there are meetings, which questions will be considered, how many questions will be considered, which question will be considered first and which is unknown at 2 p.m. All of this is known to only one person. She is the only one who knows what decision the committee has taken because the protocols are not being drawn up at the right time. The National MP can only read the protocols by permission of the person. The budget committee should therefore be brought together with the Crevice Combined into objects prohibited for privatization. Among other things, this object gives more income to the budget than the “Criminal”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, let us consult. We have reached the end of the time proposed by the Committee and the Rules for the Consideration of the matter. Then let's get to the bottom of this. Is there no objection? Then let's continue the discussion for 15 minutes if there's no objection. Please state on board the name of the national deputies who are registered. Mikola Tomenko, please, from the committee. Yuri Solomatin prepare for the performance. 15 minutes, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u107	Mikola Tomenko, head of the Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to three aspects of our discussion. One aspect of the world’s view. It seems that those who, on behalf of the government, report on the use of the budget think in terms of budget money as their money. They gave people, they paid people, they did for people. The tragedy of these people is that the budget is the money of the Ukrainian people, and everyone here, including. And when I, for example, see officials drive and donate from the budget on the computer or on the machine, and all the channels tell us what kind of wise officials we have, I want to ask: "Why don't ministers, vice-premiers, and we have no vice-premier and prime minister for two years in the government courier publish a statement on income, although he's obliged to do so. And if you look at these incomes and you see how poor these people are, because they get between 25 and 30,000 dollars a year. Well, they're poor in terms of serious evaluation. And I'm like, "How much did they pay in their pocket for cars, computers, for the patronage of concerts that go through every day?" I'm even suggesting, let's ban this shame. Well, what is the patronage of the President, the Prime Minister, or the governor of a concert financed by the State Budget and by the Ukrainian people? Let's do if anyone likes the word "patronate," let's write at all the concerts: "Under the patronage of the Ukrainian people." And then this is going to stop being cynical, I would say, Ham's use of the national money of the political interests of specific people. I would like to say to the parliamentary majority that you are for parliamentaryism, I am also for parliamentaryism; you have created a government, and the government, you know, a budget for it is the most important issue. There's no Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister, there's no minister in the cabinet but Azarov, and your quotas, which they were chosen for, on one issue, haven't been able to come here to tell people what they've done with this budget. It's a meaningful ingredient, but it's not a problem, it's not a problem, it's not a problem, it's an area, it's a problem, it's how it's used. You look at every position, I went to the Ministry of Defense, we got 80 percent of the money from the Ministry of Defense for the maintenance of sanatoriums, for the treatment, for the construction, and so on. We've got six percent to provide operational and physical training for the troops, for weapons, for everything else, we've got the Ministry of Defense of 5.6 million grand. To dispose of ammunition, they used these funds, and then they come to us and say we don't have ammunition. But you steal money through sanatoriums, because of everything else, you don't give money to the army. So the position is clear, let's talk about the budget as the national cost and the government's responsibility for using these national funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u108	Yes, Yuri Solomatin. Prepare Sichu.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u109	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to stress that today the bourgeois government is reporting to the bourgeois parliament for the implementation of the 2003 budget. But the average Ukrainian, the radio listener might ask her, "What are they fighting about? ’ Because in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, more than 300 million people and some have already captured what they wanted and others have not yet arrived. And there's a conflict, and that's what they're talking about. The budget is always a barrier, a leap in height. You can lift your leg and get over it because of the disease on your knees. And the government that's reporting today wanted to do that kind of figure. The bourgeois opposition offered to set a height of five feet [2.5 m], which was a world record or an Olympic record, but that was not enough. It demanded that the height of 6 to 7 meters be exceeded using a sports six and that might be appropriate. But I want to talk about the point of view of our faction, the faction of the Communists. In this budget, which we're discussing the income part, it's really been hidden. I'm going back to the Court of Auditors' report, which says on page 35, it says: "The State Tax Administration's tax debt is 14 billion bracelets on January 1, 2004, and most of it is owed to Naftogaz Ukraine and NAK Energoat. So, your honor, what are we talking about? We have privileged areas of industrial activity that have a separate order of management and reporting to the state. And if we look at page 31 of the Court of Auditors' report, it says again that the dividends have been paid in the same way again by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and NAK Energoat. So what I'm saying is, you don't have to cheat people who listen. Therefore, the national deputies of Ukraine cannot be deceived. There's money that was hidden in the shadows that wasn't foreseen in the income part of the budget. And that's why they didn't get a decent salary, social protection for those people who were begging and waiting for that kind of protection. So I want to say this to the end. May we, as honourable national deputies, feel responsible for the disadvantaged people of Ukraine. Not in front of each other, not in front of the government and not in front of the government in front of the parliament, but in order for all of us, together, to feel accountable to the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u110	Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u111	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable fellow MPs, has already been told about problems in agriculture in general in the Ukrainian village, hundreds of times on different levels. From shepherd talks on the pasture to government days in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's clear that the higher the level, the more the issues are being considered. But it seems that at a higher level of authority, they are already a little accustomed to being listened to, criticized, and all that remains to be done before the harvest, the harvest. And things are getting worse and worse in the village. Let me just give you a few figures on how the agricultural sector of our economy works. In 2003, crude agricultural production in Ukraine decreased by 10 percent compared to the previous year. Plant production declined by a third. Nearly 70 percent of the businesses are insolvent. The definition of this state of the agrarian complex is only one systemic crisis. The question is, What does the government do to help the villagers? On the one hand, there is talk of a large amount of financial assistance being provided to the village last year. In fact, 2.8 billion dollars were allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture in 2003. Of these, some 700 million dollars are spent on various targeted programs to help farmers. But how did the Ministry use them? Let me give you just one example. According to the government budget, 40 million dollars have been allocated to the chemical industry in the state budget’s special fund. According to the House of Auditors, which we have in our hands, the order of repayment of debts by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy for the work done on the production of mineral fertilizers in the chemical sector for the implementation of Article 72 of the Budget Act was approved by the government only on December 30, 2003. And it was virtually impossible to carry out the calculations provided for that year. And as a result, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy have spent nearly 40 million dollars of budget to pay off VAT. And so it wasn't received by the peasants. Next. We all know about rural technology, and we all know more about the lack of agricultural technology in the country. And it seemed logical that even those small sums, and last year 20 million dollars were allocated, the government had to go to machinery companies to partially compensate for the value of modern domestic technology. What, though, really? In fact, last year he stopped his business at the Lan concert, and last year he produced only one grain harvester. And to the end. Prime Minister Janukovic and his officials were pianising themselves for about a month, telling the population what they had achieved last year. I also want to remind you of the success of the Yanukovic government: in 2000, inflation reached 108 percent, food prices rose by 10 percent, and the standard of living in Ukraine remains one of the highest in Europe. And to the conclusion of the sad 509, 510 government decrees. Mr. Azarov, you ordered the opposition deputies by these decrees. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u112	Mikhailo Melniczuk. Is there a Mikhailo Melniczuk? Please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u113	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Looking at those figures for the implementation of the State Budget, the eye rejoices, as they say. I don't have a tooth. 100 percent. What did our village get out of this? What did the villagers get? As always, what's left. And there's too little left. We'll talk about the underfunded very many articles from the State Budget for Rural Programmes. In other words, today I would like to highlight the issue of supporting the production of animal production. Not done. There's practically half a million dollars left. Selection in vegetation, financial support to the APC through the loan-pending mechanism is not done. The organization of regulation of institutions in the APC system is virtually a million. The five - million - dollar - funded biodiesel program was not funded at all. Aid to farmers affected by weather conditions in winter is 10 million dollars [10 million]. Well, let's get to the bottom of this: do we need a village? Do we need bread? No, it's not. Is there a need for grain this year? No, it's not. Why? Who will answer to the villagers today, what happened in the fuel country today? Does the government have any plans to influence the situation in any way? No, it's not. Hundreds of appeals by peasants to the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Do something in Parliament, people good! What's going on? Bread must be gathered! The government cannot answer these questions; the government failed to meet its obligations in the past year to agriculture, to peasants. He's not going to do it this year either. We can see this from the articles that were planned, and from those programs. Dear Mikolo Janovich, I have spoken to you several times from this high rostrum. You can give me the answer, is there 600 bracelets today -- that's the price for the grain that you have to pay to the peasants? We insisted, the faction, that it should be at least 1,000 dollars. We made a mistake because today fuel prices say that the minimum purchase price should already be 1200 or 1400 dollars, because we're already buying 1,600 or 1,700 dollars abroad. We have to go face to face. We'll buy bread. We'll do other things, dear friends. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u114	Yes, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u115	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. The faction of communists at all stages of the budget process had been most active in its development, but the Government of Ukraine had ignored all proposals, drafting and conclusions of Communist deputies and had preferred to impose on Parliament and, together with it, a 2003 budget that was only in the interests of clan monopolies. For example, one of the country's priority sectors was coal, where the coal programme was intended to allocate at least five billion dollars a year and only 2.8 billion dollars a year for that sector were budgeted in 2003 to sustain the lives of the dying mines. We'll take agriculture, we've offered to send 5 to 6 billion grevens there, and the budget, adopted in an agronomist way, has placed only 1 billion 120 million grivens. The country's agro-industry complex produces 20 billion bracelets, with 40 per cent of the budget. But instead of really taking up the village as an example of all civilized countries, the government throws him not even a pitiful meal, but some crumbs. Unfortunately, this budget has deprived teachers and health professionals living in rural areas, housing and utility benefits, as well as all professionals of education, culture, museum, military. Take the resources for science and science. Indeed, only for the needs of the National Academy of Sciences needs 100 million bracelets and has allocated a budget of seven times less. What innovation policy development can be considered if the State support for higher scientific institutions has begun to decline since 2003. From the foregoing, it can be concluded that the State budget has now definitively lost its role as an instrument of public policy. Rather, we are dealing with the state's crisis estimates. That's where the conclusions come from. The supreme executive power of the Government does not govern the State or reflect the interests of the people, nor does it show the slightest desire through the budget to contain the crisis in the country. The 2003 budget contributed to the further criminalization of power and the situation of the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the matter. The closing word is given by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u117	Dear People's Deputies, do the Government enjoy the implementation of the 2003 budget? Now, I've heard some critical speeches here, and I'm going to say frankly, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yes, and the Government also considers that the minimum wage is insufficient. And no less of you, because there's some directions to be increased, some more, some more. No less than you, believe me. But neither today nor yesterday have we ever made or made promises that we cannot keep. Therefore, the 2003 budget, which we have adopted here and adjusted twice, has been a real budget, balanced and only therefore implemented, and that is why the economy has received additional incentives. Mr. Pinzenik spoke here. He stood up and left. That's why I'm wrong to talk to him like he's in a tight spot. However, I must say that under what conditions was the Government developing the 2003 budget. Let us remember a few figures and recall that situation. Unfortunately, there has been a decline in the economy. Against 2001, there were 5.1 per cent. The economy had a deflation of 2.8 per cent. The punishment was when we came and took care of the situation, empty. As a result, the 2002 budget was adopted in an unbalanced manner. On 28 November, there was a cash gap of 8,8 billion bracelets. Ukraine was expected to pay 1.6 billion in March. Did he have the right to submit to any provocations here? Yes, we stood firm and said that the 51 billion budget for November-December was the only possible budget. Who could, we that the arches were and saw that the economy would recover. The crop forecast was very low. Come on, peasants, remember what you told me in December, January and February. We knew where we were going. Therefore, our main task was to balance and make budget implementation real. And we made it. Indeed, for the first time, the 100 per cent budget has been implemented by income and expenditure. Let us note this and decide that the Government has budgeted and implemented it. There's no politics here. There's an economy here. Now, a few words from your statement. Very purely demagogic comments were made in the Government that there was a balance of 2.3 billion, which the Government allegedly wanted some children. The leftovers are always there and there will be. At least while I'm working as Minister of Finance. Yeah, I got the rest now. Why? Because in September, I'm going to pay top dollar payments on an external debt of 1.7 billion, and I don't want to cancel those payments. I want the current payments to be made in time, kopeck to kopeck. Second. I thought for a minute about spending enough days and meeting investors with financial investors who are willing to believe in Ukraine. What they're going to do when they listen to this. These are the grades. The government is a thief, the government is hiding, the government is deceiving. Think about it! Think about it! You're working against Ukraine. I'm responsible for my words. And when the Government implements a 100 per cent budget and has real resources, it is a strong government, it is a strong financial policy, and we will implement it. Now, Dusty came out and talked about the structure of the external debt. I'd be willing to forgive someone, but not the powder, because Dusty knows the structures. [[He's not in the hall either, by the way.]] [[N o M e s s a ……]] Oh, you're here. Then listen. Then listen. So, according to the structure of Ukraine's external debt, it is now in a shining situation. We have virtually no external debts, we have all restructured them and restructured them into favourable conditions for us. For the first time, we went on an external loan of 6,875. We have opened the road and the entry into Ukraine of foreign investment, foreign direct investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u118	Microphone, please. One minute, please. Dear colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u119	And when we replace expensive external borrowings that have been borrowed over the years for cheaper and more profitable deficits, Ukraine is doing the right thing. Now the second question, many spoke and said “non-funding”. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no underfunding, we've voted for 100 percent of all expenses. However, there is such a concept as cash execution of the budget. So the money is listed to the manager, but as at 31 December, 100 percent is not used. This is the so-called cash “surpractice” that passes over and leaves the balances for the next financial year. But that means we'll have to fund them all. Now, it was just an insult to me that we allegedly cancelled the feeding of the children with Nikolaenko, find out, all the feeding of the children in 1-3 classes has been preserved except for the care of the families, please find out, we will come to fix this situation. And I'm telling you, Nikolaenko, you won't understand, you're criticizing that we're all over budgeting and very large government consumption, listen to our Ukraine, and you're saying that it's too small. There were 43 percent of the reallocations through the GDP budget, now 28. We are creating conditions for an accelerated exit of the economy. Gabrieluk, the government has nothing to do with the attacks on you and your deputies, and it's not the government's fault. And in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I find what I have, namely, that the budget has been implemented and we must approve it. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I would ask both the government and the national MPs not to speak out of hostile positions, let me tell you, and then you can reply, because we're all working for Ukraine. Let us not judge who works against Ukraine but who works for Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. The turmoil that is taking place today between the government and the Committee on Budgets shows a low level of government interaction, its economic bloc with the relevant units of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, may I at least take a moment to generalize the judgements and assessments that have been made today in the Government's 2003 Implementation Report on Ukraine's State Budget. Emotionally, according to our political estimates, we should see what is done, what is not done, and what needs to be done. The main sum of last year and apparently this year. The presence of economic growth is an impressive figure. Both in Ukraine and beyond, there is great interest in this fact. So there's a need to take a closer look at how this affects the economy in general, and the main thing about the social self-esteem of people and of every individual. So people can understand what we're talking about here. Some key factors of economic growth, they seem to me to be. Adapting people and business to the conditions that have arisen today, I mean for economic processes, economic management. The other one. This is a favourable economic environment in the world’s markets for Ukrainian goods and services. Consider this figure: 90, 59 percent of GDP was generated by income from exportation of Ukrainian products. And if the price and demand for exports fell, what would be the economic increase? Third. This is an increase in citizens' income and the volume of retail supply. Four. Increasing the amount of GDP created in the service sector. And the fifth is financial stability. And these are the factors that I think are working in this year, ensuring economic growth. Regarding the income that is hidden or stolen by the government in the State. That was the charge. Obviously, the language should not be used in such an issue, but rather in the case of the country’s key macroindicators. While the rate of growth of the economy, I recall, was 9.3 percent last year, there was no adequate increase in the revenue of the State and local budgets, as well as the standard of living of the average, we say, average people, small Ukrainians, most of whom live on a meager salary and on the basis of pensions that we know the level of pensions. This fact, i.e. the fact that there is a discrepancy between the key indicators, is also a low-income draft of the State Budget Act 2003. You know him. How many times have we looked with the government until we've come up with a more or less acceptable figure? Economists believe that the potential financial resources of the State budget in 2003 amounted to some 106.7 billion. That's right. The figures are: the payments to the budget in 2003 are more than 55 billion. Money, and payments that may or may not be in the Treasury, have not come to it for various reasons. These are the tax benefits and the existing tax debt, taking into account the budgetary debt for VAT compensation. Together, it's almost 52 billion. That's right. Problems that we need to focus on. The first, both in Parliament and in the government, is to avoid euphoria. That's just what the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine said. It is not useful because it removes responsibility both from the government and from parliament for making systemic changes. Today’s growth is against the backdrop of a major economic downturn. We need to talk about it, we need to see it. At the same time, in order to reach 1990 levels, the Ukrainian economy needs to increase at least 10 percent by 2010. In 2003, the country reached only 54.3 percent of GDP in 1991. And let's talk about that. The country’s significant costs as a result of economic growth are not being met by the State. And they go, you have to think, into the shadow sector of the economy, deepening society's assets and increasing social instability. The Ukrainian economy is a transitional economy today, we talk about it a lot. And for the transition economy, the most important thing is, not the number of economic growth, but the formulation of a new economic system, a new economic relationship. It's going to be -- it's going to be growth, but it's not deformed that we have today, it's real, it's balanced and it's proportional. Another problem. This is the absence of a strategic average long-term vision of economic development. Even in defining the key parameter of the economic growth rate for 2003 we have made a mistake more than twice. We, I mean both the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we predicted four percent first, and then we went 9.3 percent. More than twice. Third. Substantial economic growth is not adequately affected by the growth of Ukraine's budget. With real GDP growth, I'll remind you again, in 2003, by 9.3 percent, the real income of the budget went up by 2.9 percent, and the government budget's income even went down by 3.2 percent. These are also realities. Four. The income distribution of society continues to deepen. And we haven't really talked about that today. We talked about tons, squares, kilometers, everything else, not talking about this basic problem. We didn't talk about the high level of poverty and the over-priced middle class. Although in recent years it has been necessary to give due consideration to the government’s activities. The income of the population grew at a high rate, but the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens is one of the lowest in Europe. According to various calculations and surveys, almost 30 percent of the population live below the poverty line and about 60 percent live below the poverty line. There you go. generalizing, I think, an indicator. In the past year, every seventh employee in the field of economics received a salary lower than the minimum level set. At the same time, the monthly wage, lower than the subsistence minimum, was estimated at almost half of the workers -- 49.8 percent. The average pension -- 137 bracelets -- was only 51 percent of the living minimum set for those who lost their jobs, you know that figure -- 268 dollars. Next, domestic demand for goods and services is weaker than external demand. In addition, the latter is increasing at a much higher rate, and this is clearly a dangerous trend. While the internal market accounted for 44.9 percent of GDP in 2002, only 41.4 percent of GDP in 2003. The growth in commodity exports -- 28.5 percent in 2003 -- has been one and a half times ahead of the increase in the volume of retail trade, i.e. the internal market is developing at a lower rate, while the main orientation for producers is the external market, and we are still almost entirely dependent on the outside world. Finally, the sixth, the share of labour in GDP structure is not increasing. In 2002, it was 13.6 percent, in 2003 it was 13.5 percent, that is, average citizens cannot get their share of economic growth, which, in the light of discussions about economic growth, can cause and provoke only social annoyance. Seventh, this is the need for a fundamental reform of the tax and payment system that is given to taxpayers. The developed tax system and the protectionist policy of the state on individual sectors of the economy have led to a total amount of tax aid in 2003, a total of 71.3 billion dollars, which is essentially 95 percent of the budget's income. income from Ukraine’s budgets. We need to set ourselves up here, in the Supreme Council, along with the government, what to do with taxes on added value. The value added tax has lost the primary role of the source of the budget and is actually used as a tool for regulating the implementation of the State budget. I would like to remind you that the remainder of the outstanding amounts for this tax on January 1, 2004, amounted to 6.4 billion dollars, an extended budget debt of 1.8 billion dollars. In 2003, only 6.2 billion dollars, or 2.6 percent of the gross added value of 20 percent, were set aside by law. The value added tax is the most criminalized tax type under which, according to the same State Tax Administration, more than 50 percent of tax crimes are committed, mainly in export-import operations of tax payers. Obviously, the best way to do this would be to introduce another, clear and simple, tax administration. This could be, for example, a sales tax. Considering that the volume of retail sales for 2004 is projected at $55.5 billion, the introduction of this tax of 10 per cent of the price would provide an income of almost 6 billion dollars, which is equal to the value added tax. Moreover, this would result in a positive social impact due to a 10 percent drop in prices and a reduction in the level of fiscal criminalization. And finally, the ninth. The State Budget Project, the draft budget resolution that we will now consider, should be real, not under-income. So, respectable colleagues, dry leftovers. We need to be objective about assessing government activity, moving away from criticism, I want to say again: approach objectively, see what we have done, talk about our debt, about the debt of the Supreme Council to the economy, as long as we have not passed laws because of the thoughtless, deaf blocking of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; and move away from the shared responsibility of the government and the Supreme Council for the economic state of affairs in the state and society. And we also need to support the government in its activities, because otherwise we will become even more engrossed in uncertainty. And ensuring the proper - I emphasize, proper - parliamentary control over the government's activities. Proper and objective. With this in mind, I propose that we go over the draft regulations on the government's 2004 budget implementation report. Dear colleagues, a number of decrees have been made. Let's do the lines in the end. After consideration of the matter at the end. Let's finish. Everyone will be given a word for it. Dear colleagues, calm down. Please. Just for once, just calm down. Honorary colleagues, the first registered decree proposed by the government as the subject of the legislative initiative number 5456, which is proposed to approve a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003. The second recorded decree, number 5456-p, proposing a report on the implementation of Ukraine's State Budget Act for 2003 to be rejected. This project was introduced by the national deputy Victor Pinzenic. The third recorded decree, number 5456-1, was made by the National Deputies: Timoshenko, Turkinov, Cloud, Kirilczuk, which is proposed not to approve the report. You have these documents. And finally, there's the 4th project number 5456-2. This is a draft budget committee whose main content is to approve the 2003 report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the budget, the Ukrainian State Budget Act of Ukraine. In the coming order, I'll put the drafts to the vote. May I have your attention, please? I am betting on a government draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003. [[Registration number 5456]] Please vote. For -237. Decision taken. The replica. The factions, please. I'll read it with your permission. Our Ukraine - 0, Ukrainian regions - 62, Communist - 0, Ukrainian Labour - 29, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party -39, SPI-3, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Center -17, Union - 17, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 28, Agrarian Party - 16, NDP and Industrial and Business Party - 15, Postfraction - 11. [[united]] Microphone for the powder, please. Then another person asked for a reply, Nicolainka, that is, the name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u121	I wanted to welcome Mikola Yanovich with a similar vote. Dear colleagues! I'd like you to understand clearly why you voted. At the end of 2002, the government set itself a task of overcoming poverty. This task was failed because the minimum wage was twice a year and was not finally introduced. 70 percent of the population live below the poverty line. And for today's budget approval means one thing: if you were to accept the budget of one bracelet and approve it, it's just an accounting estimate. Political evaluation means that you have a similar standard of living for people who have chosen you. Don't forget, unlike you, they're poor and they're paid, not 2-3 grand, but 200 dollars. And this evaluation today means that you're okay with it and you're okay with it. This is at a time when the privatisation of one "Cruvoristal" would solve the issue of providing minimum wage for years. Thank you for that decision. I welcome you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u122	Stanislaw Nikolainko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u123	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. I'd like to see Mikola Yanovich. Dear Mikolo Janovich! You called for professionalism. I have known you for more than a year, and I believe that you have always been a professional about your duties, so you are a professional. You said we were feeding 1-3 kids today. According to the Law on the Fundamentals of State Youth Policy, we have to feed all the children of the 1-3 classes without exception, and you said that only from the underprivileged. The other one. The Education Act provides for the feeding of all the students in the schools, all to one, without exception. Today, we only eat 1 out of every 4 or 5 meals. So when I said that they don't eat, I meant strict compliance with legislation and a hundred percent of the diet of all the students. And the next. Socialists have always advocated that at least 45-50 percent of GDP be redistributed through GDP, and today we have 28 percent. It's a liberal model and we don't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u124	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u125	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to draw your attention, first of all, to the speech of Vice Prime Minister, you know. You must not be allowed as chairman to run from the rostrum of the Supreme Council to indicate the place for every national MP. We respect each other and I would like anyone not to speak, even when Azarov is speaking from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, so that he respects every national MP. Because none of the national MPs he tried to insult here deserve it. I just want you to pay attention to this first vice prime minister. Because, in principle, that's demeaning, I'm not saying his rating, I'm saying his entire government and the higher legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u126	Dear colleague, dear colleagues! When I started speaking on behalf of all of you, I said that we were all working on the same thing and no one was working against Ukraine. I ask everyone: both national MPs and government representatives to be polite and tolerant. Dear colleagues, as agreed, we should now go to over a hundred bills to make changes to the budget. But since we didn't take a break, and at 3:00, we're going to start hearings on the budget resolution, there's this proposal, but I'd like you to back it up right now. Put the budget committee together with the government on June 16th to prepare and raise the issue of amending the 2004 budget. I would like to make this clear by decision of the Supreme Council, so that there are no permanent transfers and that we will make the appropriate decision, taking into account the needs of society and budget implementation. There's no need for a vote here, Your Honor, if you agree, you don't need a vote, please. Assadchev's gonna give us the right position. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, Honourable Chairman, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the issue is that the government is responsible for the implementation of the budget. Today, there are actually about 50 bills, the majority being introduced by the so-called majority who voted in favour of the bill. The committee cannot now consider this, because every bill changes the base, that is, the basis of the budget. This government must take these bills, process and introduce a single, coherent bill, as he sees. And then we're going to make some changes, just in this procedure, so I would very much ask the committee to work, but the initiative has to be the government, because it's responsible for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u128	I completely agree with you. But, dear colleagues, there is such a situation that we agree on the Conciliation Council, we agree with the government that we will consider this bill. And then the government and the Budget Committee will support this government, they say we're not ready to address this issue. I'd like you and I to set a date for June 16th. Is there a need to vote? We'll assume that this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What should be voted on? This is an order, not a vote. Nikolainka Stanislav, please. We've set up, your honors, we're going to be looking at either all 106 bills, or one draft bill to make changes to the budget is consistent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u129	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I just wanted to say there are three bills that I signed for the changes and the committee on science and education that I lead. What I'd like to ask is, if I support date 16, let's say that we're going to consider up to 16 with the government and we're going to approve the Debt Restructuring Act of 57 of the Education Act. Remember?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u130	I remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u131	Let's put this one there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u132	Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u133	Moreover, the Budget Committee approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u134	It's a deal. I ask you to prepare an appropriate written commission so that no trace can be lost. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we'd like a morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Assadchev, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u135	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have no objection, I have one request for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u137	You know, we cut our session down for two weeks and Adam Ivanovich explained to us, who then presided that this was done because the Supreme Council Hall would be reconstructed and there would be renovations. A big request to you, please inform the national MPs what the hall will look like, because then we're going to have to sit on those new chairs and how comfortable they are to work, whether there's going to be food on the table personally, that's our job. It is a big request to choose a little time and inform the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-02-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we have worked in detail with the Committee on the Organization and Activities of the Supreme Council. A chair was placed here. We invited the deputies to take a look at this chair. It is suggested that as far as possible, as far as it can be calculated, make more room for MPs. Make passageways and other work, colossal work. So we're going to prepare written information for every national MP if you don't deny what we're going to do, what terms we're going to give you. It's up to you. If you don't do anything, it'll be easier. As for the fact that we've cut the decision short, your honorary colleagues, we've increased it to one plenary week, thus reducing the work in the districts and committees accordingly, in view of the fact that after July two, the deputies will be working on committees, working on the necessary bills before the next session, and directly in the districts with the deadlines set by law, then going on summer vacation. So we don't have, we just have wasted time and inefficient work in a number of cases. But this is explained by the fact that the political component of our activities is beginning to dominate with regard to events that take place in the country and in the context of the nearness of presidential elections. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At fifteen o’clock, parliamentary hearings on the budget resolution But these are parliamentary hearings in the form of a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would ask all of you, dear colleagues, to be in the session room at fifteen o’clock. The question is very important. The committees of the sixteenth hour, there were agreed, respected colleagues. All the more so, the evening is great. Thanks for the job.
