ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:04:16]] Registered -425 There are 425 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, Moses is ready, isn't he? Let's talk for a few minutes about this. On the Conciliation Board, we agreed that the committee would consider these issues. And on the part of the initiators of the legislative initiative, or let's put it this way, on the part of "Our Ukraine" there was information and a message that a decision would be given instead of a given decision, instead of a previous decision. Now, as I've seen, that promise has not been fulfilled. I repeat, there was an agreement that a different decision would be given in lieu of the decree of 5575. That the decision did not answer the question that we are considering. Now we've done something different, we've done it and we've done it and we've come up with a new draft decision. So I'm going to the hall, how do we do it? Although I emphasize once again, the first decision has nothing to do with the question that we are listening to. Please sign in. Yeah, let's see. Once again, dear colleagues, I'm telling you, we've had a discussion with you about the ruling made at number 5575. Then, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that the decision would be replaced. Now we have a situation, not in exchange for the given, but in addition to the given situation. So you and I have two draft rulings to discuss. Here's what I want us to say. Five minutes. Please, Bespali, follow him, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u2	Incorruptible, Our Ukraine. Please hand over Anatoly to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u3	Please, it's Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u4	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Adam Ivanovich, well, once again, please don't twist it like you think. My right as a national deputy, in accordance with the order of the day, to propose a draft decision for one of the ministries or the Attorney General's Office. It's my right. And you have no right to take that away from me. So do not treat it as you think. I made the decision perfectly clear in accordance with the order of the day. And no one but me can force me to call off and offer in exchange. And so I'm asking you, give me a chance to reason, and the sessions to make a decision and not to show your interest, because you don't have that right as a speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u5	Please, thank you for reminding me of my rights, I remind you of your rights. Read the order of the day’s session and write the decree as it is written in the order of the day. You're a literate man. As many letters as you know, then I'd believe you're right. Please, Coloniari, follow him, Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u6	Colony, "Regions of Ukraine", 56th District, Mariupol. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are an experienced man and are conducting the session as required by the Rules. But in order not to be accused of the Rules, I propose that we give the floor to Matthew, the governing committee, to comment on the situation and to explain once again to those deputies who do not know the Rules how to behave in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u7	Thank you. We're not loading the committee yet. Sinchenko. Get ready for Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u8	Adam Ivanovich, please give Solomon your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u9	Solomon’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u10	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, however, the matter, according to the national definition, was understood that it was not worth the eggs that had been eaten. Follow the Rules closely. The rule is known that you have repeatedly stressed its requirements, these Rules. We have our fellow Ukrainian national deputies who demand something special of their own. The way to vote should be defined. So keep the driving that Parliament has given you firmly in hand and resolve matters properly under the Constitution, before the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u11	Please, Frost Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, so it happened that I was gone for two hours. And I want to get in trouble, and I can't understand what we're arguing about. There are draft regulations. Let's vote and make a decision. All of us are well aware that the Torturer’s method of campaigning was to be held. Who's surprised? But everyone knows it will be as long as it takes power. Some of us don't want to change power, some of us don't want to change power, and they want justice to be established in some way. Let's vote on this project. The cook suggested that we vote for the cook. Matvienko suggests - Matvienka votes. We need to make a decision so that there is at least a sense of power that it is controlled by Parliament. And then let's look at the issues that also have the same weight. Because today, while we're arguing about political things, they're robbing the state, taking away the most expensive things it has today - property, the most important objects of industry. Let's go back to the question of "Bloodystone." Well, you can't leave it out of Parliament's attention like that, especially since it's our constitutional duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u13	Please, Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u14	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u15	Please, the Turk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I think we've begun to study too deeply the procedure that, let's say, there is no such thing as the treatise today in the Supreme Council. Therefore, the honourable Chief is an offer to give the opportunity to vote on all the decisions that are proposed on this matter. And after voting on these decrees, let's really move on to the problematic things that our entire Ukrainian society expects of the Supreme Council. It means, of course, firstly, to stop the robbery in the form of the privatisation of the Croatstally and other strategic objects that want to be sprayed in the pockets of President Kuchma in the presidential elections. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u17	Thank you. Thus, you and I have exchanged thoughts that have revealed that most of those who have participated in the discussion insist that both decisions be discussed. I'll point it out again, and now I'm going to put it on the table. Order number 5575 has nothing to do with or has half to do with the matter that we have heard today. The Our Maker’s decree has a direct bearing, for it is called yes, corresponding to the question that we have heard today. And so, dear colleagues, we made a deal with you and you made a promise that instead of this decision, it would be made in exchange. So I'm betting on the session hall. Who wants to consider both draft regulations, please make up your mind? [[16:13:01]] For 148 That's how. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 98, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, “Deminitiates” - 0, “Deminiciates” and “The People’s Government” - 1, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Centre” - 0, “Soyuz” - 0, NDP and industrialists - 2, Agrarian Party - 0, “Factional” - 8 Please, Simonenko with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u18	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am with the representatives of "Our Ukraine" who have approached our faction in agreement with the draft decree on voting on this issue. We agreed that we were voting, and there's a joint project that we're voting on. What's the problem then is that we're once again putting two projects together with only one goal in order to fail these issues at all. We agreed on the Conciliation Council, and you approached us, the Communist faction, we agreed on this project, and we were ready to vote for the second project. Now you insist that two different projects vote. Then you deliberately fail to make a decision on this important issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u19	Yes, dear colleagues, we will now do as the session room has decided. You and I have decided that we will consider one draft decision, and it will be represented accordingly by the national deputy Zvaric. So the draft regulation, registration number 5575-1, cooker, 3 minutes. Prepare the committee head, report. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected Peter Mikolaiovich and respected colleagues! I would actually like to introduce some clarification in the position of "Our Ukraine," which was given at the Conciliation Council meeting. Yes, we've talked about that we're ready to bring one coherent draft decision to the session room, but in the event that we come back from the Conciliation Council and vote without the committee's conclusions, we're about to come to a solution. This condition of ours was not fulfilled, and yet we felt that any commitment was not in force. Instead, we have fulfilled our obligation to make a compromise version of the draft decision that is now being proposed for your attention. I emphasize that this is the most extreme limit on which we were willing to agree. You are now offered a practical assessment of the actions of the Attorney General's Office to investigate the obvious facts that bear clearly bear the composition of the crime. The decree lists specific articles of the Criminal Code that would require specific action by the Attorney General. There is a reference to article 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which very clearly and without any doubt requires that the Attorney-General, on a case-by-case basis, which testifies to a possible pattern of crime, violates a criminal case. Today we've heard about the case from the Deputy Attorney General, that it's only a case of hooliganism, and the falsification of the election results, the beating of Ukrainian national deputies, the kidnapping of electoral documents -- that's what the Attorney General's Office is silent about. The question was whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine was able to assess the work of the Attorney General. I would like to point out that, in addition to the fact that the Attorney General's Office, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court, is not the accountable Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have the right to make such an assessment. This is proposed in the operative part of the decree itself. I would also like to agree with the conclusion of the profiling committee and replace one word that appears in the second paragraph of this decree. Instead of "unsatisfying," the word "unsatisfying" is proposed. That's what I'm saying for the transcript. And it's also suggested that we set up a two-week deadline for the prosecution to make amends.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u21	Yes, is there a question? Please sign in. Three minutes. Please, enlighten me. Please, Sobolev, follow him, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u22	Sobolev, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter, please tell me if you believe that the Attorney-General of Ukraine, who, even in the final part of your decision, did all he could to hide the investigation specific to the case in order to cover up those bandits who accompanied the DAI interior ministry's vehicles, went around the town of Mukacheve, beat the polls, beat the militias who were doing their duty honestly, who at this time remain effectively betrayed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs; those bandits who are still trying to run this area through the head of the district government. Mukachev’s chief bandit, the city’s U.V.I., does not deserve the resignation of the General.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u23	Thank you for asking. Actually, I would like to emphasize that I will now give my own personal assessment, which is not contained in either the motivating or the operative part of this draft regulation. In my opinion, if you go back to article 4 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, where it is very clear that it is a direct task for the Public Prosecutor's Office to provide a social and state system in Ukraine. The Attorney General was already obliged to return the situation to a certain legal field. Instead, because of its inaction, we can talk today about the fact that Carpage has been transformed into a whole whole criminal area, and that's why I'm more likely to point out again, that's my personal evaluation. It would be necessary to assess the actions or omissions of the Attorney General of Ukraine in the context of 365 articles of the Criminal Code, namely, criminal inaction, which in itself would require a separate criminal offence, but against the Attorney General of Ukraine. But that's not in this draft decision. Here's a compromise: two weeks to get the Attorney General's Office to fix the situation and come back here again, this time the Attorney General is in this session room and he says he's doing the Attorney General's Office to ensure that there's still a rule of law in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u24	Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u25	Fucking Communist faction. For 13 years, our country has violated all the laws that are and have been with the Soviet Ukraine. Today, there is capitalization, criminalization, and we are not surprised by the events that took place in Macachev. I was with my friends in the 61st district of Donetsk and there I saw, perhaps, even more greedy than in Mukachev. Now the elections have taken place in Odessa, then they'll be in Poltava region, and it'll be endless until we change this criminal oligaric power. Since one person's replacement, nothing will change, we'll have to change the social and political system, not the people. That's why I have a question. How long is this going to take?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u26	Thank you for asking. In the context of your question, however, I hope that the Communist faction will vote in favour of the statement of mistrust of the Attorney General of Ukraine two weeks later in the event of a failure to correct this situation. Because I would like to state on behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine," that in the event that this situation is not corrected, we will still insist that the ruling regarding the mistrust of the Attorney General of Ukraine be considered in this sessionary room. And in order to fix the situation, Your Honor, we need to not change the political system, not change the Constitution of Ukraine, because that is exactly the answer you're drawing me to. First of all, to change the political system, we need to change the power that does not allow it to do so. And you were just proposing to transfer the President's authority to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And that's why, in fact, we wouldn't be able to change the political system of the state in that way. So let us not mix sin with the righteous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u27	Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u28	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, from the Hall of Deputies and Radio Listeners, it's all very well seen today that virtually powerful structures boycott any investigation into Mukachevo. But let's say they're only boycotting Mukachev? What about the Gongadze case? What about the beating of Deputy Semenyuk? And other resonating things: the same Jeliaškević and everything else? The government sabotages by giving instructions to its ministers. Please tell me, if both "Our Ukraine," and the other MPs were, supported political reform, and we voted in 300 votes, would the Minister of the Ministry of the Interior behave today as he does when he boycotts the investigation, doesn't appear in the Supreme Council, knowing that he depends on the Supreme Council, on the deputies who sit in the Hall? He would not boycott the investigation, he would serve the law, not an official who sits very high and follows its instructions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u29	Only partial agreement can be made with you, distinguished MP Baraniowski. Because I'd like to remind you, if this is about the 4105 bill, it's the initiators of the so-called political reform, in fact the coup d'état, that they want to leave the general supervision of the Attorney General's Office in this project. We still demanded that this issue be removed, which was not done. So let's not move the arrow again. Now it's not about political reform, it's now about a particular situation, about the inaction of the Attorney General's Office, about inaction, which in itself is criminal. And we will be able to remedy this situation if, indeed, we show our firm political will today and declare that the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot accept such impunity on the part of the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u30	Thank you. Sit down, Roman Mikhailovich. Yes, please, head of the profile committee. Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection, commissioned by the Conciliation Board, reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation No. 5575, authored by the National Deputies Ivancho and Matvienko, a report by the heads of law enforcement authorities on the course of the investigation of the situation that took place during the elections of the city’s head, Mukachevo Zakarpatsky. At 15 hours, when the committee began its meeting, another project of the Cooking Party, number 5575, marked one, arrived. After considering both projects, the committee notes the following. The position of chairman at today's session on refusing to put the bill to a vote without the conclusion of the committee of profile is at least surprising, because in April of this year Parliament considered 6, in May - 5 draft rulings on the events in Mukachev, without the conclusion of our committee, which in these matters is a profile. With regard to the voting procedure, the committee determines that the constitutional norm, article 89, provides for such powers to be conferred on the committee as a preliminary consideration of matters referred to the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but does not define them as mandatory for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Supreme Council was legally entitled to consider Bill 5575, and the chairman was obliged to put it to the vote. With regard to the properness of the name of the project and the substance of the matter under consideration, the committee does not see the reason for this. The committee defines another procedural matter on which the chairman concluded that since the Attorney General of Ukraine did not report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the sessional room, there is no legal basis for a decision on his mistrust. Article 122 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to express its mistrust to the Attorney General of Ukraine, but they do not link this right in any way with a report or with any other matter relating to the activity of the Attorney General. Since Parliament has taken an interesting position today to confirm the right of legislative initiative through Parliament's decision, Bill 5575, I understand, is not being considered. Then our committee, while there were two bills, still supported the bill proposed by National MP Roman Zvaric. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u32	Please sign in. As long as the recording goes, Vladimir Romanovich, you'll be in the rostrum, you'll have questions. In the meantime, you have served as another committee to which this decree was sent, the Rules Committee. We can go back to the Rules Committee. That's one thing. The other one. The Supreme Council decided, not the chairman, that 148 votes were cast only for the purpose of considering two bills. Please, three minutes. Skomarowski, behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u33	Thank you. Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u34	Vladimir Romanovich, you are asked questions. Please, Karmazin. Prepare Frosty Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u35	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Romanovich, you may have heard a letter today from a militiaman who has completely exposed the ingenuity of police leadership, which has fully demonstrated that it was organized by the authority to steal ballot papers. And at the same time, we were told that the minister couldn't come because he was on a dissipation. What steps will the committee and you personally take to report to the first persons: both the Attorney General and the head of the Security Service and the minister of the interior? What steps will you take to avoid the sound of the lies revealed here by Karpachov? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u36	Honorable Yuri Anatoliyovich, in making his decision, decided that the committee should not intervene in the investigation of a particular case. But if it is decided to report by June 15 to the Attorney General of Ukraine, I would like to give the floor to a fellow committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u37	Please, Frost. After him, Proskuratova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u38	Anatoly Moroz, No. 83 constituency, Zaporez. The Communist faction. Dear reporter, I have a question like this, in April, the Supreme Council was looking at six draft regulations that were not dealt with on the profile committee. I have a question for you. Please tell me, who, then, was the reason on which those decrees were being considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u39	There are six decrees that were in April and five that were not sent to the committee in May, so there is no conclusion of the committee. The authors of the legislative initiative. To the Chairman's question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u40	Please, Proscuratova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Vladimir the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u42	Volodymyr Hare's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u43	Vladimir Hare. The United Social Democrats faction. Dear reporter, I have a question about the text of the ruling, more specifically the project. Paragraph 1 contains the evaluation of the Attorney General's Office directly before the court's investigation and this assessment at the "unsatisfactory" level. Please tell me if there was an evaluation vote on this issue, just as the committee did, how the vote took place, what result was it, and what was the basis for this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u44	Dear colleague, 13 of the 16 members of the committee were present at the committee meeting. Everyone unanimously suggested that the author of the legislative initiative replace the word "unsatisfactory" with the word "not enough," and the author did so today during the report. He sounded it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u45	Yes, please have a seat. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? Yes. Then, please, 10 minutes. We've got Carmazin on file, get Solomon ready. Please. Carmazine, are you ready to go? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u46	Yuri Carmazin. I ask you to pass the word to Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u47	Please, Anatoly Mavienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! You are given Bill 5575, one of the authors of which I am. I don't understand today why the chairman forbids draft decrees and introduces them. I declare that I will be forced to appeal to the regulatory committee to protest the behavior of today's presiding officer. But what I want to stress is that everything that is being done today on Mukachev's side is quite clear that the Attorney General's Office is not doing enough. The reason for this assessment is in the results that the Attorney General's Office has already announced to us on more than one occasion. I would like to point out that my bill provided for a serious question from the Attorney-General, since the Attorney-General himself, and I claim with all responsibility, demonstrates the unwillingness to ensure that the case is investigated in fact, demonstrates today's contempt for the laws and shows contempt for the Supreme Council. How many times have I been asked three times in the Attorney General's Office, "Do you have the originals you're willing to transfer to the Attorney General's Office?" I say three times, "I have the originals, I'm ready to transfer them to the Attorney General's Office." And now again from this rostrum is a lie that says that someone is not passing the documents. This speaks of willful counterfeiting. Five thousand people were questioned. The population in Mukachevi is 80,000. It takes 13 years to reach a decision if it is to move at a pace similar to that of the Attorney General’s Office today. Here's the delay, the fact that there's no answer. I ask you: please tell me, Mr. Attorney General, why today, without any legal document confirming Nuser's election, do you not object to this decision? There is no answer. I'm asking the Attorney General today: Why don't you make any decisions about the opposition in these areas when you have witnesses with the facts with video documents on 12 of them? I ask the Attorney General: Why do you not respond to the testimony of the Djumela? You've had this witness for more than two weeks. We don't have an answer. I'm asking the Attorney General: why isn't the decision of the session where Nusser is sworn in? There is no answer. Like the last session, which is also illegal. We have every reason to express mistrust to the Attorney General today. And I'm proposing, by adopting the bill as a basis, to vote on my proposal, and I'm filing it officially, according to the Attorney General, "unsatisfactory." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u49	Please, Solomon. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u50	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this draft ruling, which was made by our colleague Roman Zvaric, has led to some reflection, as my colleague Cherniak says, and these reflections touch on the front page of such a definition that the Attorney General of Ukraine does not provide for a pretrial investigation into the numerous facts of the crimes that took place during the city's election. Well, I have this idea, but according to the distribution of branches of power, to determine whether it's a crime report or whether it's a fact that has a trial, it's finally going to be determined by the court, so I'm asking my colleague, with the request of his great legal experience, to make proper adjustments to this one. That's the definition in the document. And if this applies to the entire draft decree, of course, given that the work of the Attorney General is not considered sufficient, we can agree with that. But I want to stress the following. Here, when our colleagues from "Our Ukraine" blocked the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we had a little talk like that, they explained to me that they were different from the Presidential Bolsheviks because they were honest bourgeoisies. I'm sorry, I was crying. I'm so excited. Honest bourgeoisies never happen. Even the bad guys in Mukachev took over, and the good guys in our Ukraine came in and wanted to take away the bad guys from these treats and taste these treats themselves. It's a typical American version of the old American town! Ladies and gentlemen! On more than one occasion, it sounded from this rostrum that the system of power needed to be changed. It's not about the bad guys, it's not about the good guys who want to understand the bad guys, it's about the fact that we have the bourgeois power, it's about the fatherhood becoming capitalist. So let's say to our people, "Both of them are slaves.".. In those who fought for power in Mukacheva, let's say once and for all: "Burjoys and capitalist relations in Ukraine -- no!".. And we have to solve this in the next election of the President of Ukraine. If the people of Ukraine vote in favour of the Communist Party of Ukraine, this issue will be resolved once and for all. I call on all radio listeners and you, colleagues. With an understanding of how to respond to this offer. Ours will take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u51	The word has the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u52	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina. Dear colleagues! Dear democratic bourgeois! To be honest, it seems that every normal, thinking person in Ukraine feels that after Torcasian Ukraine has been lowered to the very bottom, there seems to be no place below. When I returned after this night of Bartholomew from Mukachev, I felt as if the worst had happened in Ukraine. Not at all. The scariest part is how they're investigating everything that's going on. In general, I think, and I would like to invite our law enforcement officers to build a monument in the Martyr’s Monument, a monument to an unknown bandit. That would be wonderful, and we would truly be glorified worldwide that we have such a monument. When this rostrum comes up with respectable people, the people in charge of the power structures today, believe me, I'm afraid. Guys, you're great guys, but you're liars, and you're all down when you're standing here, and when you say it all. It's really scary in a country like this to live in today where you and I live. You look at one of the sergeants picked up here today by Nina Karpachov, and she opened Ukraine's eyes completely for everything. And hundreds of investigators can't set up basic things. That's why I'm absolutely convinced that what we're asking today is the question of the resignation of the Attorney General, on which we've locked ourselves, in fact, all of these things, is very fair. And the last thing I wanted to say. Dear colleagues from most of them! You're talking about what you want from the Parliamentary Republic. So, when we voted in favour of the governor's resignation, after the chief of police's resignation, a few hours later, the Attorney General said, "Who are they? What do they accept? It's all anti-constitutional." And in the evening, the President confirmed the same thing. So you believe that someone will count with the parliamentary republic today? Because of this, I'm convinced that the version proposed by Roman Zvaric is very normal, it's reasonable. Indeed, we need to give this time, give them one last chance, one last chance. Suddenly, someone’s conscience will wake up? And all of a sudden they'll find something that they haven't been able to find to this day? And as for the monument to an unknown bandit, I ask you to think about it and put it in place. Let's roll.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u53	Yes, please, Rabbit. You don't? Ivan Alexandrovich, you have one minute left if you want. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u54	Dear friends, I urge you to support this Order. The question is not about any easy matters. The issue is a constitutional breach in Ukraine. All of you are well aware that Nuser went to avoid responsibility and to water down, as the people say. Everyone understands that this process is driven from the top, from the bank. And no one wants to answer down there. If we're going to take this Order with you, we're really going to take the responsibility of a lot of people down. They won't be pushed, they won't require illegal signatures. So we're going to give people the opportunity to act like humans. If we keep our heads in the sand and we don't take this decision, we're going to create a situation where these guys are going to keep pushing, when they're not going to do any follow-up, when they're going to keep these things and do things on the bottom of God's punishment. So I urge you not to bury your head in the sand, to act as Ukrainian citizens, to make a decision and to bring this matter to an end. The law must be equal for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u55	Honorary colleagues, discussion of the issue, information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the outcome of the investigation of the situation during the election of the city head of Mukachevo Zakarpatski district, as well as information from the head of the working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Sinchenk on the results of its work has been completed. You and I have a decision to make on the draft ruling. I remind you once again for the transcript and for you, for those who will vote, in the course of the presentation of the draft decree, National MP Zvaric proposed in the first paragraph of this decree instead of the word "unsatisfying", "unsatisfying" "unsatisfying" "unsatisfying". In view of this situation, I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the outcome of the investigation of the situation during the election of the city head of Mukachevo Zakarpatsk, as well as information by the head of the working group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of its work. The decree is the basis. [[16:46:02]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 97; "Regions of Ukraine" - 0; Communists - 57; Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine", "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government" - 0; Socialist Party - 19; Block Timoshenko - 17, "Centre" - 4; "Union - 0; NDP and Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2; Agrarian Party - 0; non-fractional - 10. Thus, the question is closed. For reasons of vote, please sign in. Please point it on the board. Three minutes. Drach, follow him, Nadjajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u56	Please give the word to Rabbit Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u57	Please, it's the Rabbit's microphone. John the Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u58	Dear national deputies, as you can see, we have heard reports from our law enforcement agencies and have made no decisions. What does that mean in practice? In practice, it means that we tolerate the inaction of the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the SBA. So I don't think that's a better decision. We must make a decision, at least now, to hear with clear intermediate results. It's the Attorney General's Office, it's the Bureau of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Without setting such a hearing date, all of this will be on the brakes. But that's not why we're gathered in this room to pursue the lawlessness and violation of the Constitution. So I invite you to vote in favour of setting up another hearing date for this information with the interim results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u59	Please prepare yourself instead of Gruzyev Moroz. Symphony microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u60	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, a faction of Communists who insists on urgent consideration and decision to ban the privatization of the Crevice Metallurgical Combined, based on the fact that it is indeed the pearl of the Soviet economy of the Soviet Ukraine. This is the pearl that still gives us every fifth ton of steel in Ukraine and nearly $400 million in revenue this year. So I insist that we actually vote now, Adam Ivanovich, in favour of including this issue in the agenda, and that we urgently vote on those projects that envision a suspension of the privatization process, because by June 7, the deadline for the participation of those or other organizations in the so-called competition is virtually up. But it's a fictitious action, and we Communists insist on banning the privatization of the Crevice Metallurgical Combined. As well as to consider the matter again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u61	So please, instead of Dirty Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. Two moments from the questions we just voted. We can fully vote on the finding and vote on the resulting part on the second paragraph so that we do not lose control over the development of this situation, the development of the investigation, for this is our duty. The other one. I fully support Peter Mikolaiovich's proposal and make a similar proposal in the morning, let's vote at least to put the question of "Criminal" into order. There are two documents, two draft decrees. In general, let's vote for the inclusion of the issue of the privatization of the Crimsonstals and the report on the information of the Cabinet of Ministers on the management of state-owned property in order to do our constitutional duty. And I think that members of the majority are also interested in the order in which the law stipulates.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, let us sum up the reasons for the vote. We got 206 votes. That is, the decision was not taken even on a basis, so no other additions to this decree can be voted on. That's one thing. Second, my colleagues Simonenko and Frost had just offered to bring the matter up. I'm now answering them with the same answer that I gave to my colleagues in the case of "Our Ukraine." At the same time, if the profile committees consider the proposed draft regulations, if they come to a conclusion, then we will consider them for consideration. I repeat, please, Peter Alexiyovich has nothing to do with this; it has been written by entirely other committees of profile. You don't have to, you don't have to! I repeat, I want to repeat what I said at the Conciliation Council today when the representatives of our Ukraine and others said that you should ignore the Constitution and do what we want. I said that this is what you're demanding right now, and in a day or two, others will demand it, and then others will say that you can't do it. I repeat, when they are submitted in accordance with the Constitution, the 89th article, we will consider them. They'll pass. We'll look into it. Please don't raise your hands. I suggest. Please sign up for the lines again. Yes, please, Assadchev, three minutes. Get ready for Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u64	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, you give nothing at all, three minutes. Thank you very much. First of all, I don't quite understand why you're deliberately delaying the consideration of issues that are of state importance, which are violent, and you need to take them immediately. Moreover, it requires more than one faction. As for, say, the Committee on Budgets, we discussed the issue on the basis of the "Criminals" during the break. We believe that it is ready to be heard and voted. I believe that it should now be considered, considered, and voted on. And I think we should go back to the question of Mukachev because the Supreme Council can't accept anything, given what we've just heard in the Supreme Council Hall. The Supreme Council is obliged to respond to such things when witnesses tell us what the Attorney General did not want to hear. So I ask you again to return to the question of Mukachev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u65	Please, Nosenko, get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u66	Mikola Nosenko, Ukrainian Communist faction. Please give the floor to the leader of the Simonek faction Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u67	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This is a very serious issue, and we understand that the metallurgical complex in general gives up to 60 percent of export revenue, including this very serious coming to the State Budget. It's funding all the same social programs supporting pensioners, women, young people. Therefore, it is not possible to ignore such a very serious process when privatization takes place illegally. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, you will not violate the Rules if you now put to the vote the question of putting the matter in order of the day. And even then, if you have doubts as to whether there is a committee conclusion or not when we consider the content, then, indeed, your question is correct. So I propose that we now put a question to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u68	Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u69	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, the point is that I support the previous speaker, Peter Mikolaiovich, is that we are now considering inclusion. And there's no committee decision to make. That's the first one. The second question. At 2 p.m., I met with the Budget Committee. It's a profile committee that's been looking at this issue because the cost of privatization goes right into the State Budget. And the Committee on Budgets decided by a majority, just to approve these decisions and to consider them recommended at the meeting of the Supreme Council. So we would ask, and there are appropriate decisions, and we would also consider that. And, esteemed colleagues, an enterprise that provides 45 percent of the profitability, where 55,000 workers, where the wages of one and a half thousand and three thousand dollars in the steel industry, an enterprise that depends on Ukraine's national security, if we release this enterprise now, there's going to be a metal crisis in Ukraine tomorrow, because our businesses today can't take metals for their production programs, it's going somewhere. So let's think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I also reaffirm the importance and necessity of this issue. But the committee responsible for this decision is the appointed committee of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenk and the Special Committee on Privatisation, headed by Valentin Semenyuk. They did not resolve these questions. Now, when my profile committee offers me a solution here, we're going to look at it with you. Once again, the First and Main Committees are written by the Gurenko and Semenyuk Committee, because it's a profile committee. So, dear fellows, let's turn to each other. Give me the papers. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Dear colleagues, please don't argue. I'm gonna say it again. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Give me a decision, I don't have to take Vala, Vera and Natal. I need the decision of the profile committees to be officially signed, not phoned. You're in charge of telephone law. I repeat, shall we work or not? Make the committee decisions. Yes, dear fellows, I've given my word to the committee's head. No, I'm not. Right, but once again, look who the Head of the Supreme Council wrote the resolution. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Don't scream! There's the distribution of committees that are responsible, and the issue of privatization on the committee of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, and the issue of privatization on a special committee led by Semenyuk. Dear colleagues! Sign up, trade up, but I'll say it again. I don't need phone calls, reports of anyone looking around. I need an official decision from the professional committees, which, I repeat, are responsible for this by the Head of the Supreme Council for the administration of the national economy and so on and so forth. And I remind you, we have a special privatisation commission set up by Valentina Seminouk. And there's a draft decision by Valentina Seminouk, who made a contribution to hear this question. So I think she's the head of a commission where six or seven people's deputies alone can organize meetings and do it under the Rules or constantly have to rape the chairman that you do it because we want to. Please show me five minutes. Please, Gunner. Follow him, Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u71	Please give the floor to Deputies Prašenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u72	Please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u73	Reverend Adam Ivanovich! The Committees' distribution really means that privatization issues are fixed by the Special Committee on Privatization, led by Valentina Seminyuk. But the ruling applies to revenue from the state budget, which according to the distribution of committees refers to the competence of our committee. As a result of the privatisation of the Kriboristal combination, there is a risk that the state budget will lose more than 3-4 billion dollars. The Committee on Budgets considered this at its meeting, and the adoption of this Order was supported by an absolute majority of votes. I would ask that we not misuse the interpretation of committee competence. Because the question of revenue coming from the State budget relates specifically to the competence of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which considered the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u74	Please, Mishur. Get ready, Spydarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u75	I give the floor to the leader of our faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u76	Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u77	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We need to solve one of the two issues that we, the Communists, ask. First of all, the Supreme Council has the full right to vote and to acknowledge whether it has a question of privatising "Criminal" the relevance of the state. The committee, when considering draft regulations made by individual people’s deputies, as subjects of the initiative, considers the content of the provisions in relation to the conformity of the Constitution, programs, and much more. So, Adam Ivanovich, we are now faced with a question about the relevance of dealing with this issue in the Supreme Council. So I insist, let's vote on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of our fourth session of the issue of the prohibition of the privatization of "Cruvoristal" and then the committee will continue to consider the content of how this or another project meets the requirements of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u78	Please don't have a date. Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u79	A Turk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u80	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u81	Alexander Turchinov, block of Yulia Timoshenko Dear colleagues, when our citizens were robbed in Mukachevo, depriving them of their right to choose the one they want to support in the elections, they want to rob all of Ukraine now, taking away valuable property that has not yet been taken into the pockets of the oligarchs around President Kuchma who have dug. Therefore, dear fellows and distinguished Adam Ivanovich, I address you directly. They're robbing a country that you're still interested in stopping. We need to make this proposal and vote for it, and then we will find out what rules have been broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are, including Alexander Valentinovich, today and your faction's representatives have tried to teach me not to break the rules. Now you call, you break, and then we'll see if it's worth it or not. I remind you once again, all the questions that relate to privatization, that is, I answer to Poroshenko, all the questions about privatization, everything from privatization goes to the state budget of Krivoriža, Zaporozhye, Mukachevo, Vinitsa, Lutsk. Whoever's being privatized goes to the State Budget. But according to the distribution, we are responsible, and you and I have created a special commission on privatization. And in this case, it's the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, because once again, I'm stressing, it's all about budget issues. First. The other one. Dear colleagues, I remind you all, you have already considered this question. This issue was considered in this session hall. Alexander Alexiyovich can confirm that when he presided at the meeting, you came back to that question, it did not receive the required number of votes in the session room. So this is another motive that we don't have at all on a large scale the right to consider at this session. So I'm asking you not to raise your hands, and I ask you again, there will be decisions by the committees, and then you and I can come back to that. They became involved in the daytime routine and did not receive support. Dear colleagues, we've made another deal with you. We turned on the daily message, didn't get support on the 18th. I'll say it again, let's say it's ten. When they ask. The conflict will be when 226 votes are asked. Questions were included in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u83	We're not voting until the committee's in place. And they're in your hands, they're in your hands. The 18th number was voted for. You could have ten, but not in this case. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right, dear fellows. You know, I know better than you that unlike you, there's no more scandalous in this room. [[B in m in s a l in]] So what?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u84	Because you had no right to get it. When you have one, you get one. Who are you? There's a committee head, not a board member. The head may take the floor. The head may take the floor. And an MP can when. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, yes, dear fellows, I'm asking you to give us some time. If you don't mind, let's talk about ratifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u85	They won't. Well, there will be committee decisions, then there will be. [[B in m in s a l in]] I emphasize once again, Your Honor, the Frost will get the word if you release the rostrum. I repeat, Alexander Alexandrovich will be given the word when the rostrum is unlocked. Please unlock the rostrum, all of you. Please tell me, Alexander Alexander, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u86	Deputies! There are a few important points here. First of all, you don't need a committee decision to put the issue in order of day. We form the order of the day session without having any decision at all, especially at the time of the creation of the Supreme Council. During consideration of the matter, the committee’s opinion should be essentially positive or negative, regardless of whether it is positive or negative. This is the first moment. Second, the issue voted in the Supreme Council, 288 deputies voted in favour of the decision we are proposing now, only in the form of a ruling. But there is the President's veto, which is also included in the order of the day. We need to consider the question. Finally, there is a constitutional rule that obliges Parliament, not some parliamentary committee, to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the management of parts of state property. All the reasons for putting this question to a vote are. I don't understand, Adam Ivanovich, why you don't want this issue to be put to the vote. Once again, regulatory rules allow this to happen, and more than that, they oblige us to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, put your hands down. We'll be clear. Once again, when we form the order of the session, it's formed by the submission of the profile committees, and it's no different, or then the Conciliation Council, taking into account the faction groups, is voted in the session room. The second moment, the question is, we voted with you in the session room, it didn't get any support. And the third moment, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. Heads of factions and groups please rise on the third floor. Break until 17.43.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I will inform you of the meeting of the Conciliation Council. But they'll hear, they'll come in while I tell. It was about how to get out of the college that we got into, because we went out on a really, really, April 18th question was being considered in the session room. True, not all questions were raised in the session room. So we immediately invited the documents, part of the documents, to check what and how. And they came together to, well, at least there's almost a need for a number of votes -- 216 -- to go back to the previously unsupported question. We don't have another option, dear fellows. Unfortunately, the practice is not very predictable by the Rules, but the practice has been such that sometimes we have decided whether or not to return to previously unsupported issues. And so, so that we don't have any other curves, I'm going to say, who's in charge of getting back to the accepted question, please vote. [[17:50:08]] For-198 The decision is not taken. So, respectable colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry! For that there are faction leaders, there are political groups interested. Look at the Communists, sitting in the hall, sitting and voting. Look at the socialists: they're sick about it, it's burning them -- they're sitting in the hall, and they're voting. The factions, please. I'm not going to be a fractional shepherd. There are faction leaders. "Our Ukraine" is 91. How much is in the room now? 91, right? There you go. So keep your mouth shut. The regions of Ukraine are 0, communists are 58, Social Democrats, Hard Ukraine, Deminiciates, People's Government are 0, Socialists are 20, Block Timoshenko is 19, Center is 3, Union, People's Democrats, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs are 0, Agrarian Party is 2, non-fractional is 5. Question completed. Yes, Your Honor, let's maybe work on the ratification laws for 15 minutes. Let's support some of the ratification laws, they're so sealing us. Especially if it is a faulty plane that we have crashed where we need to, we need to meet international obligations, and so do others. So I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention. The questions you have about ratification that will raise objections, questions, and so forth, we will be sure to listen to them. Okay? Then please, I will look at the hall and react. Please, Gabrieluk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u89	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Today, we have finally begun to return to the rule of law, and this is a big deal. But let's just remember how long it's been. Not today, but earlier, different decisions of the Supreme Council were taken that did not comply with the Rules. And also, Adam Ivanovich, today we have an agenda where the country's most important bills are once again put in place in honour of changing the structure and size of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with their reform of the social and state guarantees of the military. Aren't they more important to KMK? Today, soldiers meet again, sit with radio receivers and want to understand what position the Supreme Council will take. For some reason, we put ratification at the top again. I would like to put in place drafts specifically related to military reform and that social protection must be adopted for today primarily by the military. The planes can hurt. We're running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I fully support what Vassil Vasilovich said. And he sees, as they say, God, and you can see that these bills are constantly standing, if not the first, almost the first. Unfortunately, it's not up to the chairman, it's up to the session room that we don't come to the attention of these very important issues. And I asked you before the break, remember, I asked you before the break: let's do it while the profile committee is preparing its decision for us to consider these questions. To the farthest, the session hall or part of the session hall did not let us do this. This is one moment. One second. Again, those interested in the issue, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Defense, you see, sat here almost all day, he had important advice about what was shooting and exploding, he apologized and said that he could not continue to bear the meeting and asked not to consider these issues today. So please, come on, dear colleagues, don't blame me. Once ratified, this will be the procedure. There will be objections; we will consider and consider whether or not to consider. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Settlement of Claims arising from the Air Disaster, which took place on 4 October 2001. [[0181]] There's a question. Do you have any powder? The powder will report. There's no one from the Ministry either, is there? Then we will not consider. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters. [[0184]] Any questions? Yes. Now we find out if there's anyone to talk to. There's no Justice Department. And the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Anyone ready? Players ready? I can't see Staszewski. Staszewski, please. Stanislav Telisforovich. 0184. Korea and Ukraine for legal aid in civil and criminal matters, answers to questions. Please. Korea and Ukraine, ratification. Do you have it? Please, School. Now. No, it's the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u91	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I literally want to say for two seconds that the issue of ratification is the same issues of order of day as everyone else who needs the same fundamental approach to discussion as everyone else. Because there are a lot of things that can be ratified that we will then blush in front of the electorate. Next. I'm interested in the content of the Korean Democratic People's Republic Treaty, and I looked at it. How many cases have we had, civil and criminal cases between the People's Democratic Republic of Korea and Ukraine? Was there at least one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u92	Please, Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u93	The honourable Chief, honourable colleagues were to report to the Ministry in accordance with the Rules, but I am informing what should be the function of the Committee, in accordance with the Rules. The committee at its meeting reviewed and supported the instruments submitted for ratification. Before that, we invited the opinion of our Scientific and Expert Office, invited the opinion of the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Protection, the Committee on Legal Policy. They came to a positive conclusion and believe that these documents should be ratified. The purpose of this treaty is to settle the issue of providing mutual legal assistance to the contracting parties in the investigation, prosecution, prevention of crime, criminal and civil proceedings, confiscation of income, criminally determined and judicial decisions, and so on, which will contribute to the relations of our nations. The committee supports you, please support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-01-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today will be the day when no article of the Rules will be violated. The question is not ready for consideration; we will not consider it. So, dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise that tomorrow we will be working with you in a rather interesting mode. On the first half of the morning, we will probably be listening to the question: First, the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the State Budget Act 2003. After hearing this report, we, given that quite often the budget committee was unable to meet its obligations, were not to blame, for sometimes we did not give the quorum the opportunity to gather. More than a hundred bills have been focused on making changes to the State Budget. Tomorrow at the second part of the first plenary session, we will hear about each of these bills. So let's go like this, what I've looked at by the committee, there's no problem. What he hasn't considered, and it's been more than 15 days now, we'll put it in the agenda if we include it and look at it. The request will be for authors who insist on presenting their draft law after a minute. And then we'll probably accept, we'll go through these bills in the first reading. What was supported in the first reading will go to the second reading so that the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the profile committee, will prepare for the second reading. After that, you and I are in line with the Budget Resolution, although the profile committee is proposing a different approach. But this is the law, the law we can change, and it will only take effect when the President signs. So from 15 or 16 o'clock tomorrow, we're going to be holding parliamentary hearings on budgetary resolution issues. The rules of these parliamentary hearings will offer us a profile committee. Who will report how much they report, how much they share in the discussion? It offers about 90 minutes, if I am not mistaken, for discussion in parliamentary hearings. Once again, the Budget Code provides for, not a plenary session, but a plenary hearing, and this is how we will act, Peter Alexiyovich. What happened last year, I'm sorry, I'm not interested. It will be what the law provides. And so tomorrow we are obliged to consider the range of issues related to the budget, the budget and the budget and the budget resolution again. We're not discussing any other questions tomorrow. This evening’s session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
