ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u1	Yes, I'd like the National Deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. There were 435 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of matters according to the schedule. Let's move on to the section "Abbreviated procedure." It is announced for consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the List of Property Complexes of State Enterprises, Organizations, Their Structural Units of Main Production, Privatization or Renting. [[on the protection of civilian defence]] Registration number 5662. Reporter - First Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations Chuchkovsky Vyacheslav Mikolayovich. The focal point will be the head of the Committee's subcommittee on economic policy, governance of the national economy, ownership and investment. And we also have a project on the inadmissibility of this law. The author is Andrew Schlell. We'll figure it out later. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A bill amending the List of Property Complexes of State Enterprises, Organizations, Their Structural Units of Main Production, Privatization or Renting is not allowed for the purpose of preserving the existing Civil Defence Protection Facility and improving financial security for the maintenance of these facilities. The essence of the change is to allow the civil defence security contractor to rent them in an off-site lease -- I emphasize, with the exception of civil defence protection facilities designed to place control stations located in high-risk areas and a 30-kilometre zone of possible radioactive pollution, that is, around nuclear stations. I'll briefly point out that the existing fund of such buildings has only one counter-radiation shelter of about 1 million units. Their condition may not be at all necessary, you all know what the building is about. And their condition is terrible on the exclusion of those who are located, located in high - risk areas. With the adoption of the Act, the renter will be able to obtain income from the rent of civilian defence facilities to have the purpose of maintaining them. The implementation of the bill does not require additional budget spending. The draft law was agreed with interested central executives, and he conducted an expert study in the Ministry, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. According to the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill can be taken as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u3	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. From the committee. Who will report from the committee? I can't see, but the committee's decision is to take it as a basis. Please, Andrew School for Inadmissibility. None. Is there a need to discuss this project? We've got two to go, two to go. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u4	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I will vote in favour of this bill. Indeed, it is necessary to accept it, but it will help to preserve to some extent what is left, what is left. Well, I propose second reading to support the proposals of the Scientific and Expert Office and also to amend the Law on the Legal Frameworks of Civil Protection as part of the lease mechanism. But the distinguished people's deputies, the respected Vladimir Mihajlovich, the respected compatriots we have are very much in the sad picture. We're adopting drafts that, I don't know, they say we can call holes. These bills do not solve problems, and we all adopt them, accept them, and do not think about the root reason: why is this happening? Why is it so beneficial not to think about it? And when they tell me, let's just say, "You're not on the subject right now." But I'm trying to figure out why this is happening. Why the socialist authorities had enough money for everything: agriculture, scientific and technological progress, youth, the elderly and, in particular, the facilities that we are currently considering. Now it's not enough, why? The root cause is universal privatization. Hence, no, we see that the private will not keep these objects, if even now the private will have this facility, it will only be used for the purpose, again, of profit to gain, and the problem of public scale will not be solved. And that's understandable. Why, then, should we not give up privatization, it has been 13 years. They say that practice is a criterion of truth. Well, this practice has proved us - 13 years of reform, privatization and 13 years of economic decline, in culture, in science, in education, in all spheres. And we need to apologize for the moral impoverishment to claim that we're making some progress. Decline, therefore, I no longer call on the people's deputies because they will vote in favour of the bill. They were chosen, but they don't think about the people, I mean big capitalists. I'm calling on my countrymen, and we need to ask those MPs who are sitting to some extent, at least a little bit of attention to you. Secondly, there will be no good going to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the Presidents of the Capitalists in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u5	Volodymyr Yavorowski's microphone, get ready for Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u6	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Zovkwa, Yavorov, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss this issue, just to remind you that in that old country of ours, of course, virtually every lech, every race was already a bomb shelter, we remember these times. And of course something in this situation in this system needs to be changed. I have the impression that much has changed, for in Kiev, for example, even all the funerals that were, they were all handed over to restaurants, coffee shops, and so forth. As a result, this law is very short and seems to have no problem here, and it seems to have to be voted for. But let's read it again, it's very short. Civil defense protection: designed to position control posts. So it's not just about the bomb shelter, it's about the control points. But further, they are located in high - risk areas. Why is it not deciphered that these are objects of increased danger? You can imagine what this is, what this bill is, which you can treat, how you want and how you want to turn these doves both to the right and to the left, and so on. Because I'm absolutely convinced that's not true, it gives a big lift to the clerk, for the briber, including something to sell, give or hide for tomorrow and in a 30-mile radius of possible radioactive pollution around atomic stations. I also think that you can't write about possible radioactive pollution, just in a 30-mile radius around nuclear stations. This suggests that this law, forgive me, it's really very short, a few phrases, but they're almost all legal, they're legally incorrect, and if I say even more accurately, they're not literate. In general, this question would really have to be sorted out, because let's say I just got a call from Lugansk and they say that there's already rumors that Yushchenko, he wants to turn all the shafts that he sent into a nuclear waste dump. But whoever could come up with this completely idiotic idea, I think it's just existing power. Thank you. I'm not voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u7	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please. Turn on Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u8	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we at the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster have carefully considered and supported the bill. And we suggest we vote for him. So the faction, our faction of Communists supports the bill, because it's aimed at resolving some of the issues, they're defined in the reports, which are the crippling ones that are in time. And settling these issues is also beneficial for the very objects that have been inactive and for the very institutions of our state that run these objects. So the bill is one that can and should be supported. In this connection, however, he wanted to say a few sentences in connection with the speech of his previous colleague, who complained that the bill did not define what objects of increased danger were. This is defined in other bills. And if our esteemed writer not only addressed all the authorities of the State with a dozen letters, but he carefully studied the laws he was trying to comment on, he would certainly not be allowed to do so. But he seems to have it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, let us be more patient with one another. Please. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u10	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow radio listeners! Inventory of these objects is essential. Again, we stumble in Parliament when we do not know at all: What is left of these objects? The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has decided not to support this bill. We have a lot of arguments about that. I would like to draw the attention of parliamentarians and radio audiences to this question: Where was the property of civil defense? We know there were millions, hundreds of millions of assets! Who will answer where in these years of independence, reconstruction, reforms at Leonidas Danilovich Kuchmi and other generals, where did this property go? Today, there are thousands of civilian defence objects in the lease. Although this is not provided for by law and is prohibited, it is still leased. The following question. There are thousands of acres of land under these objects. What is the fate of these lands? Who in the State Budget pay for the rental of these lands? If they are objects of national importance, there is one approach to this matter. And if these objects are already leased to entrepreneurs or businesses. Let's say, in those commercial structures that can pay the land tax, it should be different. As long as we do not have a clear answer for today, we will not support the respected colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u11	Yes, dear fellows, one minute. Javorowski’s replica Then the Blackman Committee will have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u12	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block I'm very glad that my red colleague, Mr. knows my profession, I regrettably don't know his profession, I just want to recall the words, not my words, my reverend opponent, these are the words of the famous Pole Jerzy Lez, who said something like this: maybe the laurels take root in the head. I feel like it's happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, please, let's stop all of this and work. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Change in the List of Property Complexes of State Enterprises, Organizations, Their Structural Units of Main Production, Privatization or Renting, and supported it for adoption in the first reading. The bill proposes to significantly reduce the number of civilian defence protection facilities that are not allowed to be leased, leaving only those buildings that are designed for the location of control stations located in the area of high-risk objects and in the 30-kilometre zone of possible radioactive pollution around nuclear stations. The bill proposes to improve the financial security of civilian defence facilities by reducing the number of objects involved. Thus, on the one hand, it is suggested that the list of objects should be reduced, and on the other hand that the funding should be improved. That's the plot that's in the bill. I already said that the Economic Policy Committee supported him. There is the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which generally endorses the use of protective civil protection facilities to provide for economic and other needs, including their rental. However, the management believes that the rental conditions of these buildings should be regulated in detail at the level of the law, in particular by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Civil Protection Law. This is the kind of proposal that I think the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is making. In addition, it points out that, from the legislative point of view, the title of the bill should be changed to "the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on the List of Property Complexes, State Enterprises, Organizations, Their Structural Units, Main Production, Privatisation or Renting of which is not permitted". That's actually two of those comments. I don’t think the second point is mandatory. Well, from the point of view of legislation, it might be appropriate to do so. So here I've given you the conclusions of the committee and the conclusions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. One minute! With three minutes of motivation. Please sign in. On the board is the name of the people’s deputies who were registered for reasons. Please, Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction. Then Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u16	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Our faction supports the bill, taking into account the comments made by the relevant committees and the accompanying committees. But I just want to add one more thing to that. It has happened that every bill that we are discussing today has a violent dispute between the opposing political camps that we have today in Ukraine. And I want to end with one thing: when the ladies get together, and this is orange on the one hand, and on the other hand, white and blue on the other, the pigeons crack. Unfortunately, our people have not yet understood and chosen between these two masters. I want to finally make the right choice: throw them both away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u17	Alexander Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to what we're being offered. We are asked to exclude objects that are practically located in the forest area, near the rivers, and in areas of recreation from the list. We know where these objects are now owned by our Ministry of Emergency Situations, or it's in the center of appropriate cities and so on. If they don't need them that way and they need to be leased, let's exclude them from the list and include them in the privatization list and conduct transparent privatization. We understand what rent is. This is today’s rent, tomorrow’s rent with the right to ransom, and practically businesses will be stolen. So I am surprised to see the position of individual Communist colleagues, who are so keen to see these objects stolen today, and who are very quick to take a stand: let’s give it to the rent. You can't do that. These are objects that should be clearly accounted for and should be managed by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u19	Yes, Oleg Belarus, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u20	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will be against this bill. Please pass the word to Valentina Seminouk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u21	Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u22	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address the government in particular. After the adoption of the Constitution in 1996, the Supreme Council adopted an appropriate decision stating clearly that all amendments to the decrees were introduced as laws. And now it has been eight years since the adoption of the Constitution and by this time making appropriate changes to the decrees, let us at least listen and look at the comments of the Supreme Council. That's why I don't think you can accept a document like that. That's the first side. The other one. There's a question. We have a law on renting state and municipal property. Please make adjustments. There are lists of objects that are not allowed to be privatized. Make some changes. You know, passing a document like that, it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u23	Yes, thank you. Please, the closing word from the government. Very short. Is there a need or no need? None. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for a pro-profile committee on adoption is based on a draft law on changes to the list of property complexes of state enterprises, organizations, their structural units, main production, privatization or lease that are not allowed for civil defence protection facilities, registration number 5662. For - 192 The decision is not taken. Yes. I'm voting for re-reading the project, registration number 5662. For - 188 The bill was rejected. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 1, Ukraine - 52, Communist - 59, SDPU (o) - 5, Labour Ukraine - 21, National agrarian - 10, SPO - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 11, Ukraine - 4, Center - 12, NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 7, Democratic initiatives -3, non-fractional - 3. A draft Act amending Ukraine’s land code on particularly valuable land is being announced for consideration. Well, we have two projects here, one government and one author of which is the national MP Sklar. True, the national MP Sklar turned to the letter asking for a consideration of his bill to be transposed. Then we both have to carry on, because we can't otherwise, because. Maybe we'll look at them then, because otherwise we'll vote when we put it to the vote, we won't get the required number of votes, and we'll just burn the bill. Please report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Mr. Garbus Mikhailo Jurkovic. Prepare for the Committee of Volodymyr Alexiyevich Lechchenko. I'd like to ask you together to describe two projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's amendment bill to article 150 of the Ukrainian Land Code was designed to improve the allocation and removal of land on the southern coast of Crimea in agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Supreme Council in March of this year. The main features of the project relate to the amendment to part one of article 150 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, including the treatment of particularly valuable land within the southern Crimea coast, which has been taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to resorts, and beyond them within the coastline of the Black Sea. The adoption of the bill will help to address issues of protection and rational use of land on the southern coast of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, this bill can be taken as a basis. Dear National Deputies! Like the two bills that are to be considered in packages, they basically complement each other and can be taken as a basis and unified, I would like to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u25	Have a seat, please. There's only one thing I think here, dear colleagues, that a very fine law, perhaps you're five years late, because we're going to accept it, and the ground, we should say how many of these valuable lands are left, they're probably all sorted out, already in private property. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The first bill, sponsored by the national deputy Sklar, in addition to what was stated in the government bill, adds that in addition to the land within the Crimea population, there are also those in the coastal protection strip along the Azov Sea, as well as the land within the city of Kiev occupied by coastal protection strips along the Dnipro, Right, Right, and around large lakes, reservoirs and waters. In addition, the second sentence of this paragraph adds that the removal of particularly valuable land adds an agricultural assignment for non-agricultural purposes. And it adds: delete and change the purpose of other particularly valuable lands and what is not allowed in the text, except in cases defined in part two of this article. So that's the difference. So the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has considered both projects carefully and believes that the bill tabled by Ukrainian National Deputy Sklar, registration number 5197, is more comprehensive than the government's registration number 5197-1. Since the Black Sea also includes the coastlines of the Azova Sea and the great rivers of Dnieper, Right, and large lakes and reservoirs. At the same time, both bills need to be finalized in preparation for the second reading, both in the technical part and in bringing them into conformity with the Water Code. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proposed to adopt both bills and to prepare one bill for the second reading. In addition, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine sent a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to expedite the adoption of a bill on the settlement of issues related to the use of coastal and large rivers. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, proposes the adoption of a bill by the national deputy Sklar, number 5197. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations proposes to the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 5197 as a basis and to take into account the positions of the Government when working on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u27	Thank you. We're going to have a short discussion: two for, two for against. I'd like to make it clear that we're speaking. Vladimir Yavorowski, get ready for Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka Block, Yavorov, Zovkla Dear colleagues, our speaker, Vladimir Mikhailovich, has made it very clear that the Head of the Supreme Council has made it very clear that we can now vote for this bill. I'm sure he'll be voted for by both Havrish and others. Everything's been taken, everything's taken. Now we can really impose a ban. It's perfectly normal of us, Ukrainian logic in our Ukrainian or non-Ukrainian, our state with you. From my point of view, I think it's perfectly calm to reject a government bill, because the Sklar bill has actually absorbed what the government is proposing. Our government has decided to impose, as it were, certain prohibitions on the Black Sea. There's really nothing left. Leonid Danilovich, Victor Fedorovich, everything is long gone, everything, everything, everything, the shooting's over, everything's calmed down, everything's fine. And they decided, the government decided there to close it. The glazier went on, and he usually added the shores of Dnieper and the shores of Right. That's very good. But on the other hand, the question may be: Why just Dnieper, and why only Right? What about the lands around Kiev? I also understand what some realists can say, and what can they do in those lands? By the time Leonidas Danielovich’s family had captured everything that could be captured. The last and the shores are already falling asleep, and the writing village in Conchi-Ozerni, which has also been completely captured. Because of that, I think all we can do now is spread our hands and say, well, we've lost. However, I am absolutely convinced that with normal Ukrainian power and patriotic authority and honest authority, and we will probably have it after 21 numbers, many of these issues will have to be examined simply. So let's vote for this version of Glass. Let's just say I'm convinced that we should support her right now. Let us save some of the little pieces that remain today, something that does not suit Gavrish. Because, you see, Gavrish took six hectares. And I explain why. He loves the earth, the forest, and the horse. The only person who is in Ukraine who loves the forest very much and loves horses very much, took six acres [6 ha], and there they cut up the boys. Because of this, you see, it's marauders! They do not believe in their victory, for if they did, our Havrish would have to hurry six acres [6 ha] today. If Yanukovic wins, you can take 60. No, he wants it now. Because of the fact that the boys are running away, they're grabbing now like sailors. Let's vote for the Sklar Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u29	Yes, Mironenko. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u30	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear people's deputies, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished compatriots! I would like to propose to support both the bill and the bill. Why? Because we may not be able to accept one that is made by certain forces. Meanwhile, the very topic raised by the authors -- both Sklar and Kabmin in the bill -- deserves a lot of attention and support. This will ensure a reduction in abuse, corruption, this will ensure that the local budget and the State budget are large enough, but it will also somehow reduce those very difficult events, at least the severity of those events that are in the Crimea, and may not allow what might happen. Even in the pro-American weekly Mirror of Weeks, which was amazingly given the truth here, because I think it's often a very crooked mirror, in my opinion. Thus, even the weekly report says that some coordinating council insists on national autonomy, that bloody events are taking place in the Crimea. And you know, it wasn't just a controversy, it was a fierce fight over and plots on the South Bank of Crimea. And this fight is still being used to push inter-national relations for the sake of someone else's interests. And let's answer so that we all know for the future what a threat Ukraine is facing. When I was right, why don't you respond to this sick national issue that gets worse and worse, and I'm told that we're more so-called nationalists, we're more Russian afraid than those who set it up in Crimea. In the meantime, you know that in Yugoslavia, according to the plan of the United States of America, instability has been organized, the Kosovo office under the pretext of protecting Muslims. Now everyone understands that the “distant hand” from the United States of America has extended to Ukraine and is trying to manage the processes, is trying to place its Presidents, deputies and so on, and in this case, a national map is being drawn up, once again, for the purpose of withdrawing Crimea from Ukraine. I asked the first deputy force agencies and so on, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is indeed the information. B.O.S. and so on. It is confirmed. And I'd like everyone to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u31	Solomon’s word is to be prepared for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u32	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. It seems that all words are needed to guide and determine whether to vote in favour of these bills or against them already being said. And I just want to emphasize and confirm once again that the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster has approved and approved the bill of our colleague of the Ukrainian National MP, Sklar, and suggested that we take it as a basis for the first reading. Similarly, our faction treated both of these bills. And we've decided that we're going to be supporting a parliamentary bill in the first reading, well, clearly, in furthering the work, we're going to take into account all the useful things and proposals that are in the government bill. That would be the end of my speech. But I just have to say a few more sentences. My yellow, orange colleague was bitterly sorry to hear from this rostrum that all these valuable lands had already been captured. And I realized that he was sorry because there was nothing left for the oranges for the last bite. And that's why I understand why they're so angry. Now they're getting ready for a partition of what's already been captured. Well, that's your business. But no pores and no pollinators will help you in this matter. And it's not because the authorities are going to turn on the plumbers or any other means of self-preservation. But the main thing is that you won't let this repeat bite make our people, who's already figured it out, who's running it around a few fingers. This is the kind of patriotism that we're offered by those who are yelling for poor Ukraine. [[in quotes]] But both political camps are two sides of the medal, one of which is engraved: "It's infused with capital." Let us keep this in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u33	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u34	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. Our colleague Sklar's bill is more attractive to us. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine today decided to support the bill. And yet it's more wide enough to save what's left, to speak and speak to my colleagues. Still, what about the bill, what about this article in the Codex earth? Did it not work when the land was distributed? It's nothing like that. Let's take Article 150 and quote it: "The removal of particularly valuable land for non-agricultural needs shall not be permitted, except in the cases defined in Part 2 of this article." Part 2 of this article gives no exception. And the earth was given away. I mean, your honorary colleagues, Your Honorable colleague Yavorowski, when we introduce, we vote today, even if this authority remains, it will continue to allow what it allows. Well, I get it, we're not going to talk about the colors of today's hall, we're going to talk about who can stop this, which candidate will stop it. Yesterday, television debates showed that there was a candidate who could stop it. It's a candidate from the people. I, my dear friends, would never allow myself to engage in advocacy here in favor of one candidate or another, but sometimes takes for granted that someone in their own time did everything they could to stabilize the economy, did everything to make the farmer feel relieved, gave credit. This was done in a clean, honest and honest way. So let's do that. If we're talking today about the government introducing Bill 5197-1, then there's something that we've noticed, Deputy Sklar, that's more, let's say, that's more widespread. We think this bill, which we vote for, will work after November 21st. We will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u35	Yes, dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. I put it in order to submit the bills as we have considered. It is based on the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code, the registration number of Bill 5197. [[on especially valuable land]] It's an MP. Please vote. For - 132 I'm voting on a bill amending Ukraine's Land Code on especially valuable land, it's a government bill. [[Registration number 5197-1]] For - 143 Dear colleagues! I understand what you're saying. You have the impression that we voted in the first draft. Look at yourself in the daytime. The first bill we have is the Bill of the People's Chamber of Sklar. The second is a government bill. I'm re-emphasizing what the committee and representatives have said here, in fact, the government and all the speakers, that the Bill of the People's MP of Sklar is expanding and clarifying the Bill of the Cabinet of Ministers. Do you understand? I'll put it again with your permission to vote. Be careful. The first vote is the draft of the national deputy of Sklar. [[Registration number 5197]] Please vote. To - 214 I'm betting on a bill number 5197-1, government. I'd like to make a statement. For-146 Honorable colleagues, honourable colleagues, the bill of the national deputy Sklar won 214 votes. Once again, I am particularly referring to factions that form part of the governing coalition, please see the same school bill, which only adds Kiev to Crimea. The glass. Let me support you in the first reading. In the second, bring both Dnipro and Dnistro and Danube, whatever you want, what rivers and lakes you want. So I would like you to mobilize for first reading support on the basis of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian land code, regarding particularly valuable land, registration number 5197. Please vote. For -218 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 75, Ukraine - 0, Communist - 59, Social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, Socialist - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16. The Union and the only Ukraine is zero. The center is 14, the NDP is a party of industrialists, the entrepreneurs are 7, the democratic initiatives are 0, the non-fractional is 7. Please write it down for 3 minutes. Yes, please, on the board: Manchulenko, behind him is Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u36	Gregory Manchulenko, 203rd District Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. I'm sorry to see that the factions of the parliamentary-government coalition do not vote, most factions do not vote in favour of a colleague of Sklar's project, who wants to put an end to the obscene things that are now taking place in the Ukrainian state regarding the embezzlement of our basic wealth, the land. It seems to me that this approach of some factions of the parliamentary-government coalition is about their real face, about whom they care and care, is about people who have huge financial opportunities, and the interests of those who make a living, barely making ends meet, they don't care. So we have to go back to the Sklar project again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u37	Please, Colonyari and follow him, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give the floor to Mr. Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u39	Please, the Sulkov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. There's a proposal that actually, because these projects, you're right, Adam Ivanovich you're saying, there's virtually no difference in them, the more they've been put to the vote several times, and so we see that they won't pass, there's a request to get them back to work. The committee should work with the authors and, indeed, take it back to the first reading. And we're really going to adopt it, a more beautiful draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u41	Please, Mironenko, follow him, Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u42	Please pass the word to Masenk Aleksandr Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u43	Masenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u44	Thank you. I don't think there's any need to bring this bill back to work. Well, what else is there to work on? And it's so clear that for those issues that are affected by the government project and the second project, the area around Kiev is added. I think that's a reasonable offer. And, indeed, these lands are especially valuable. And those who do not vote may well understand this, but let people know what they do not vote on. You've had enough, I think. How old are you? Do you also need Desert Water and other conservation zones? Let's get some rest. Yet, 40 million may still be left without you. Are you the only one who has such lands? I think we can put it to another vote and try to vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u45	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u46	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would ask once again to put to the vote taking into account the large number of appeals that have come both to the Special Supervisory Commission and to the Head of the Supreme Council and to all deputies regarding the preservation of particularly valuable lands. And I think we're going to be understood by our voters because they hear in the media the problems of especially building illegals on lands that are recreational, on especially valuable lands that are around Kiev today. These are actually our lungs of the city of Kiev. Those trees that are illegally cut. I would like once again, Adam Ivanovich, to take a balanced approach to the question that such lands, especially those of value, should be preserved for all Ukrainians. And people come to us to look at our beautiful land, seeing and proud of our beautiful greens, beautiful lands. I'd like to put it again. Colleagues, let's vote, let's do our patriotic duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u47	Please let Calinchuk say his word from the agrarians.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u48	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have considered these bills very carefully at the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. And we came to the conclusion that they must be accepted in the first reading. Then, while we are working on second reading, we will work to get other lands along the Black Sea coast to be included. This is our national wealth. And we must here as the Supreme Council, as representatives of the people of our nation, support these bills. I ask you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the bill amending the Ukrainian Land Code for Special Valuable Lands. Registration number 5197. Please vote. For - 243 Thank you, the bill was adopted in the first reading. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 94, "Regions" - 0, Communists - 58, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian and Socialists - 20, Tymoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, "Centre" - 14, "NDP, industrialists, entrepreneurs - 10, "Dem. Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 7. Thank you. He's listening. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u50	No, no, no. There's a denial. There is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility of citizens and officials in implementing the law. Bill 5311 registration number, draft government. Reported by Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Prepare Marcus from the committee. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u51	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill is drafted in accordance with the final provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct and State Executive Service, which have been incorporated into the law. There were a number of assignments to be performed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The essence of this bill, which is now being presented to you, is to amend three valid laws: this is the Criminal Code of Ukraine, this is the Economic and Procedural Code, as well as the Law of Ukraine on the State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities. The point of the problem is to encourage the voluntary execution of decisions of the court that have gained legal power in Ukraine, as well as to remove certain irregularities that have arisen in the criminal code itself because of the failure of individual circumstances to bring elements on children and on elderly parents of citizens for whom the court has passed the relevant decision. In particular, article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for criminal responsibility for the deliberate failure of a ministerial servant to execute a verdict by a court of law or by impeding their execution. But in addition, we are well aware that it is not only officials who avoid or deliberately interfere with the execution of a judicial decision. So it's suggested that the word "service person" be removed so that this rule can be applied to everyone, whether he's a service person or just a citizen doing the same thing. In addition, the project proposes to replace responsibility for the malicious evasion of alimony payments made by the court’s decision on public works. I'd like you to pay attention to that, because unfortunately, I saw that there was no understanding in the scientific-expert administration that obviously didn't fit, so to speak. It's time to get into this problem. The point is that today’s availability of the norm in the Criminal Code does not even allow it to be applied theoretically. The point is that today, in the 57th article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, punishment in the form of correctional work is placed there for a period of six months to two years and the place where the convicted person is employed. And here, at the workplace, between 10 and 20 percent of it is removed. And the point is, he's an evil underpaid because he doesn't work. Where he works, it's not his problem anymore, it's the owner's obligation, or if it's a state-owned enterprise, the administrations will collect these funds. And if they don’t get involved, it’s not the citizen who's guilty anymore, it’s the one who's obliged to pull them in. So here's a situation that's supposed to be a norm that can't be applied in principle. And punishment in this case can only be if a fine is imposed. This is one part of the norm that works today. Clearly, if this person does not have property, it is impossible to make such a court decision to make alimony for children. To avoid this, it is suggested that this measure of punishment for public works be replaced. Then it is possible to remove part of the court’s decision to retain children who have been deprived of their livelihood. The other part that is proposed for change is for us to resolve the issue of 14 and 15. In line with articles 14 and 15 of the Law on Executive Conduct regarding the Responsibility of Experts, Experts, and Translators in Executive Conduct. We have a lot of problems today when experts' findings are the cause of a violent reaction from society and this room. But the standards in force today provide for their responsibility only in the course of their judicial and judicial proceedings. What is involved in household affairs is not foreordained. Therefore, we also suggest that we foresaw responsibility at this stage. There's a part that's purely related to matching.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u52	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u53	Where it comes from, it's about the lines, especially. The procedural code, which provides for three months of presentation of the executive letter, is a three - year law on executive conduct. Clearly, it must be one term. So we're going to suggest that we bring this into line. And also what is involved in the protection of a public executioner who comes out as a coerced enforcer in accordance with this law, which is valid today, but has no reference to another law of profile. I would like to support this bill, which will serve to improve the situation with the execution of judgments in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u54	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee to the head of the Committee on Legislative Protection, Maria Andriyovna Markusz. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u55	The Communist faction, Marcus. Honorable Chairman and Honorable Fellows! A committee on law enforcement issues reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the responsibility of citizens and officials in the executive direction]] The bill proposes to introduce the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Master Code of Ukraine and the Act on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement Authorities in accordance with the laws of Ukraine on State Enforcement and Enforcement. The committee supported the proposed bill on the grounds set out in the explanatory note by the legislator and considered it possible to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading to be based on further substantive work. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is also of this opinion. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u56	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, shall we vote? I'm voting for acceptance as the basis for the first reading. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I saw that you were excited to talk on your mobile phone and thought it would pass. Yes, then, please, Mironenko. It's Karmazin. Shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u57	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable compatriots! I believe that this bill should be adopted on first reading because older, incompetent parents and children need our help and I would like to draw attention to the fact that unfortunately, article 164, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2, provides for a milder penalty for public works. In my view, it is not appropriate to reduce punishment from correctional work. It's time to think about the children in a special way right now. Second. Article 382 should most likely be brought into line with article 164. If we are taking and devoting the problem of children, the problem of the elderly is probably not to the point of mitigation, but there must be some reasonable differentiation. But let's think about the people's people, and the people's people's people, and the people's people, they're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones that're the ones who're the Yes, they often act morally, cruelly and with respect to children and the elderly, unable to work, but let us see what conditions the State has placed in those people who are evading. This is no excuse for those who avoid it, but if we do not take this into account, if we do not take into account what we leave people often without work or with poor wages, then let us not be surprised that these people are avoiding the debt owed to children and to older parents who are incompetent parents. Respectable compatriots! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I call for the bill to be supported on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u58	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. After him, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u59	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! We must vote for this law today, but what is now happening in Ukraine needs my appeal to the minister of justice. Mr. Justice Minister, now the government officials, the militia, the taxpayers are calling for their leadership and forcing them to take up strong cards and thus deprive them of their right to vote. I'm returning to you as Justice Minister, because it's absolutely useless for the Attorney General to address you. I address you, intervene in the situation, give the team a check, and report to the President as the guarantor of the Constitution, what's going on. As for the content of this law, honourable national MPs, I fully agree with the Committee's conclusion that the bill should be adopted in the first reading. What is proposed? It is suggested that the responsibility for avoiding the payment of child support items be increased. To make changes to article 164 of the Criminal Code, we immediately anticipated this at the time of our adoption. But there were some liberals. They said, "Well, what's the limit of will?" And for the children not to be provided, but for the parents to be abandoned, and for that to happen today, questions about the homeless in Ukraine are being asked, and this is where it comes from, and this is how you have to ask questions and raise them in prison. Maybe they'll be prime ministers someday if they're well-educated. In the absence of a court ruling, it is proposed to make changes to the 382nd to also add 120 to 240 hours of public work, or make corrections for up to 2 years. Another sanction remains in effect. That's also absolutely right. I can't just agree with one thing, by making changes to the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure, to article 118, with the badge 1: the responsibility for avoiding the execution of a decision, the approval, the decision. In my opinion, the same person may be attracted for, under article 382 of the Criminal Code, Ukraine for failing to execute a court decision and may, if attracted by a private enterprise, be punished and under article 118 of the Charter-Processive Code. I don't think that's necessary. What happens, as far as relativity is concerned, in fact to law enforcement agencies, to government executives, I think it's absolutely right and it needs to be changed about the state protection of the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u60	Please, Puzakov, follow him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u61	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Such understanding of the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code can be accepted in one way or another, perhaps by no means. If you compare the sanctions of articles 164, "Avoidance of payment of items for children" and 165, "Avoidance of payment of expenses for poor parents", it's not entirely clear what increased responsibility is. In the current article of the 164th Penalty, there is either correctional work or a restriction of will. The bill provides for punishment in the form of public works or restrictions of will. For example, the crime foretold in part one of the above article is intended to take the form of 120 hours of public service. If you divide it down, it's going to be 5 days for a crime, as foreseen in part two, an alternative restriction of will. Public work is also offered for up to 240 hours, or 6 days. Thus, the criminal in his worst sentence worked for him for 10 days, and the children, however they did not receive the elements, would not receive it. When analyzed, it turns out that the bill does not increase criminal responsibility but rather increases criminal responsibility. With a different understanding of the designers, what will lead to improvements in the execution of court decisions can certainly be agreed upon. Thus, it can be concluded that the need to amend certain laws of Ukraine that address issues of non-execution by citizens and other persons of the courts, farm courts, which are necessary, including the strengthening of health protection, the honour and dignity of executives, may be amended to the above-mentioned articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which will then be proven to be incorrect by practice, because hundreds of thousands of children and parents will be left without reliable legislative protection by the State. Therefore, the amendments to articles 164 and 165 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code may need to be revised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u62	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u63	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine decided to support the bill. But, Mr. Minister, I'd like to address you. To draw attention to the following points. Making changes to three laws, correcting inadequacies in laws. We've already learned all this, and we're doing it very perfectly, and work is enough for everyone -- both parliamentarians and those who are preparing this law. In principle, we would like to adopt laws in Parliament that no one would then change and work, and they were perfect at first. But it's a story. We have to do this. The deliberate failure of officials to execute court decisions or to evade execution must be strengthened by responsibility. Mr. Minister, I want to tell you that you have repeatedly responded to my requests for MPs. And I want to thank you for making some decisions and helping people on the spot, and I thank you for that. I would like to point out that until now your order and your answer, the one you gave me, have not been executed. In the Kilmenian sugar plant in the Chernivecki region, the decision to pay the workers has not been made for five years. The Mikolai district, the Ilenetsk district, the village of Vossiyewska, is failing to implement your orders regarding people who have not been paid rent for land and property. Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Novomoskovsky district, Spaszke village. Poltava district, Novosanjar district, Staré Sanjari village And there are many such examples. I know I can't control everything. But the administrations, the district administrations of justice, the district administrations of justice, who are on guard, should take control of your instructions. Next. I don't understand, hundreds and thousands. The village of Stalinovci in the Novoseltsky region of Cherniewec region. When a court decision was executed by the executive, a grain car costing about 50,000 was implemented. $300 worth of money. And so many cases. I'd like to find out in some way how the executive service that executes the court's decision is going to implement the technique or property of the peasants at a time when it costs tens of times more. And that's how the bill needs to be supported. The Socialist Party faction will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u64	Thank you. The discussion is over, dear colleagues. All those who spoke were unanimous in the fact that the bill should be adopted as a basis for the first reading. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the responsibility of citizens and officials in the executive direction]] Bill 5311 registration number. Please vote. For - 237 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is under consideration. [[on Public Procurement Responsibility]] Bill number 4347. Reporter of the People's Deputy Vernidubov. I can't see. From the committee, please, Marcus Maria Andriyevna. Please, Markusz Maria Andriyovna, deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Enforcement. No, the thing is, Verni Dubov isn't from the committee. Yeah, well, since, Maria Andriyevna, we're going to listen to him now, we're going to take him in, and then Germany quick. Please, Maria Andriyevna, please. Now, dear colleagues, we're listening to 4347 drafts. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! Draft Law 4347 of the Ukrainian National MP Vernidoubov amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is identical to the Government Bill 5513. Both bills are proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences with a new article 164. 14 with the aim of establishing responsibility for violating Ukrainian legislation on public procurement, which will contribute to the fight against corruption in this area. The committee generally supported the bill, but considered it necessary to make the necessary additions to part one of the first article of the 294 Code, namely to decide on the issue of the authorization of judges to review the administrative cases of the listed category. This bill by MP Vernidubov was submitted earlier than the government bill. I think the bill is a better draft. He's about to be reported by a government representative. And I'll make my point after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u66	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, as you can see, we were not very mistaken. Yes, then let's just give the economy time and we'll both discuss the bills, and I'll invite Bill 5513 to the government head of the German audit office, Peter Kuzmovich. Please. Peter Kuzmovich, how much? Three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u67	Thank you very much. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! During 2003 and 2004, the authorities of the State Audit Service have set up to comply with state-funded procurement legislation, and I ask you to think about the figures for more than three thousand objects of control over the amount of over 400 million dollars. Ukraine’s Law on the Purchase of Goods, Jobs and Services for State Funds provides for administrative responsibility for infringements of procurement legislation. However, the extent of such responsibility to wrongdoers is not provided, undetermined. This, of course, avoids responsibility and prevents public policy in the area of procurement at the expense of government funds. For the purpose of solving existing problems, Kabmin has drafted a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation, namely, the Code on Administrative Offences and the Law on the Purchase of Goods, Jobs, and Services at State Costs. It is proposed that the code be supplemented by an article that will provide for the responsibility of violating the established order of purchases, determine the type of offences, the size of the fine for which they are committed. It is also proposed to amend the Law on the Purchase of Goods, Jobs, and Services for State Funds. The right to file protocols on administrative offences will be conferred on the Court of Auditors and the State-monitoring, audit and specialized central authority on the coordination of purchases. Today, according to the legislation, the Ministry of Economics is establishing such an authority. I would like to point out that the imposition of administrative charges is granted exclusively to the courts. The bill is under consideration, and today you have heard the report of the committee concerned, supported by the committee. The adoption of the Act does not require additional material and financial resources, will contribute to the development of a competitive environment by purchasing at public expense, reducing offences in this area, increasing the liability of public funds managers to maintain the established order of purchases, and will ensure the effectiveness and effectiveness of State financial control, its preventive orientation, and strengthening financial discipline in the State. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u68	Thank you, Peter Kuzmovich. Dear colleagues, well, we've been told that, I think we can determine. Is there no objection? No, Carmazin wants to speak. Anyone else who signed up? Yes, please, from the committee of Marcus Maria Andriyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, as I have noted before, that the government bill is better drafted, that it is more clearly stated, that it eliminates the legal gap in the area of liability for violating the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense than Bill 4347. He's better in all respects. By a decision of the Committee of September 8, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was recommended to adopt the bill on the basis of its comments. The committee supports the bill. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus is of the same opinion. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, Carmazin. Behind him, Melniczuk. No, please, I'm watching.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u71	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials and the head of the Audit Authority are here! I fully agree with the fact that it is not wrong in the Code of Administrative Offences to have another 164, let it be already with the 14th, a violation of the legislation on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. But I want to go to the government. I want to speak to Mr. Yanukovich. There was no debate yesterday. Yesterday there were two monologues: Yushchenka and Yanukovich. I would like to invite Mr. Yanukovich to the debate as chairman of the Party of Fatherland Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u72	Yuri Anatolyovich! You can talk about 164 articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u73	That's what I'm talking about. Why? Because this law, adopted by the Code, was adopted on December 7, 1984. And what, the whole government is unable to prepare changes and a new codex? Should we put in article 164 with a badge of 14? And now we're spending time using a little article here. And using the fact that there's the head of the CRU, I'm pointing out that right before the purchase, think about the children's candy gift sets, 50 million dollars of closed auctions, where three participants took part instead of ten, as was last year. And so another 50 million dollars went into the shadows at uncompetitive prices, with the same violations. I'm addressing the head of Valentin Simonek's Auditorium. Stop this abuse of government. I address you, Mr. Hermanchuk, stop this abuse of government. As far as administrative responsibility is concerned, it must be written here: "no signs of criminal action", such as abuse of office, or excess of authority. And right here, where there's a clear violation of the purchasing laws, what you said was right, but not far from your people, I'm asking them to look at everything, regardless of who's behind it. I can assure you that Carmazin was never anywhere behind this. And if even children with gifts are now being unfairly charged with money, 50 million dollars, and they say where they're going, they're going to go to the election, it's really necessary to take action and break criminal cases. I'm addressing Attorney General Vasiliev again. Gennady Andryovich, you're in this high office, please conduct a test, I've already turned to you, I've turned to you, and no response. So you have an entire administration to oversee. Stop the lawlessness. I'm in for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u74	Please, Melniczuk. It's Pinzenic. Melniczuk from the site, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u75	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. I'll make a statement to the faction of the Socialist Party. We decided to support Bill 5513. I really liked the fact that today the Audit Service reported on this bill and that they're still taking measures to strengthen it. This was checked by more than 3,000 entities involved in the procurement of goods and services for state resources, and it is still about 500 million bracelets, and it is certainly necessary for the State to have strict control over the purchase of goods and services. What the Audit Authority has reported today I would like to say to you, Mr. Hermanczuk, next, I'm here, I'd like to thank you for having such footage in the Audit and Control Department as in the Chernobyl area. I am grateful to these people who in due course exposed the abuse of 17 heads of government in the district government, who were using government funds for purposes other than appointments. In the past leadership, past leadership, not at Roman's, that they found courage and submitted the officials to the prosecutor's office, but courage was not enough in the district attorney's office to bring them to justice, and that those responsible for spending public funds for non-deployment would be brought to justice. But history is history and today I want to tell you that I, as the national deputy of Ukraine, have no comment on the work of the audit service of the Montenegrin region. And where I'm in the field, there's no warning to my colleagues, and there's no complaint to the audit services. That's what I wanted to say to you as a thank you for not having any honest and decent people. And one more thing I want to say is that the audit office, your services don't use authority to push either the entrepreneur before the election or the other subjects of the electoral process, and that does it to the face of your service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u76	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. More on legality, more on the ministry. You can see that Peter Kuzmovich is going to ask you for something. Yes, please, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u77	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Budgets of all levels spend billions of dollars a year on government purchases. The law provides for competitive or tender terms for public procurement. There's a corresponding tender law. There is only one, there are no tenders in Ukraine. I don't think it's a secret for everyone that all government purchases are made with so-called castes, but if you speak human language, bribes. And this permeates the entire public procurement system. And we know about the stakes. The wish of the Chief Audit Authority to remedy this situation is commendable. Sadly, however, this decision does not correct the situation. Because in one of the committees you could see materials like drugs that cost two dollars in the world market are bought for seven dollars. You may have heard of the fact that the French company refused to supply medical equipment to Ukraine for one simple reason: that so many do not steal, and we are a serious company and we are not going to spoil our reputation. In this regard, note the standards of this law, which provides for this law. The law provides for fines for breaches of the law on purchases, fines up to 1,700 dollars. Whether such fines are able to resolve a situation where the amount of the deduction is estimated at hundreds of thousands of dollars or at times more. So the problem is not in fines, the problem is in the basic law, because the basic laws are written in a way that allows officials to always manipulate and choose the contractor of a government order, not to give orders to the structure that offers the lowest price. And that's why we don't solve the problem. We need to change the basic law on government procurement, where there will be the only criterion of the winner, the recognition of the winner is the minimum price of supplies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. Pay attention! I'll put it in the order we discussed. So the first is the Verni Dubov bill, and the second is the Cabinet of Ministers bill. Do you understand? I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on Public Procurement Responsibility]] Registration number 4347. The author is the national MP of Vernidubov. I'd like to make a statement. For - 170 I am betting on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for violations of the law on the purchase of goods]] Registration number 5513. It's a government bill. Please vote. For -231 Decision taken. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Thank you. Here we go to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Unification of Citizens. [[on creation and activities]] Here are the drafters of the bill: Shevchenko Alexander Alexandrovich. I can't see. Goshovsky Vladimir Sergiyovich. None. From the Sobolev Committee. From the committee, please, Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u79	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Policy has considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Unification of Citizens, No. 3263, submitted to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenk. This bill aims to improve the conditions for citizens to realize their constitutional right to freedom of union and to cope with the difficulties involved. The bill provided grounds for the refusal of State registration, responsible for the non-compliance of statutory documents with the requirements of the Founding Fathers Act, which would facilitate the release of the time of the relevant State authorities for the examination of statutory documents. The implementation of the bill should result in greater efficiency in the work of public organisations. The Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchuk, to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u80	Chewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u81	Chewchenko. Did I say that? Excuse me, excuse me. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Moreover, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has thus formulated its observations: the drafting of the second project article, namely, "The Civil Organization can acquire the status of a non-profit organization, article two of the project" should be aligned with part two of paragraph two of article seven, paragraph 11, article 12 of the Ukrainian Business Taxation Act, which states that the acquisition of the non-profit organization's status takes place in its initial registration. And the general conclusion is that it can be based on this observation. The committee therefore recommends that you accept this bill. Here, in fact, only article five of the legislation on the unification of citizens is changed, consisting of the constitution of this law, tax legislation, and other laws and regulations. Article 9 is complemented by the fifth part of this content: The public organization can acquire the status of a nonprofit organization in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and carry out activities that correspond to such status. Article 11 is complemented by part five: After the legalization of a public organization, its founders become members of such an organization. Part three of article 15 is edited: the application for registration of a local public organization is considered within ten days of the date of the arrival of the documents, and the application for registration of a local public organization is considered within one month. The decision to register or refuse the application shall be notified in writing within a ten - day period. And the founders are responsible for the validity of statutory documents submitted for registration. And part of the first article 16 states when it may be refused: if the name, statutory or other documents entered into the registration, or its purpose falls within the limits set by article four of this law, if not all the documents required are added for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u82	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u83	I refuse to speak in the discussion because.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u84	And of course, I realized, I did, Yuri Anatolyovich. I appreciated your sacrifice. Yes, please, Yavorowski, follow him Puzakov. Microphone, please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u85	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka block, 123rd Democratic Election District, Vladimir Yavorowski, participant in fighting in Kirovgrad. By the way, the Supreme Court has just confessed. Considered the question and acknowledged the preference of Yushchenk in this area, which had not been counted before, another 45,000 votes. I am very happy and grateful to the Supreme Court for its objectivity. Dear colleagues, for me personally, this is a purely technical law, which is indeed essential: to separate a nonprofit organization from, say, an income organization. And our Ukraine fully supports and will vote in favour of this bill, and we ask for the support of other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u86	Thank you. Please, Puzakov, follow him Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u87	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština To date, the two - month term is neither an excuse nor an effective exercise by citizens of their constitutional right to form a union. But at the same time, I want to point out that Ukrainian legislation is liberal to the existence of even the most dubious cults. How do we know that scientology is not recognized in any European state, because scientology is not religion. Today, Kiev is preparing to register an international sect of scientology whose work is causing great concern for law enforcement officials in many parts of the world. This organization has been repeatedly accused by the world of violating human rights, religious freedoms, and fraud. Its leaders, in disguise of their religious status, carry out illegal activities with elements of economic crime and mental terror against their members. And recruitment is done through deception and psychological manipulation. In the countries of Europe, laws have been adopted that severely restrict the functioning of this cult, and we have this to do. In Ukraine, there is a whole system of well-organized structures that often coordinate their actions and have a powerful political "breath". Most of them have their headquarters, for example, under the cover of Ukrainian nationalists, they feel free to lead the sect of the Embassy of God. And when the law enforcement authorities tried to send him outside Ukraine for violating the law, 50 "our Ukrainians" stood up for him. The question is, So whose Ukraine are they building? Unfortunately, no one but the Communists can resist the possible threat to national security. We must prevent the registration of a questionable organization. I'm making an offer: to make provision in the law for the non-registration of organizations that pose a threat to people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk's microphone. After him, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u89	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Given that time is coming, I propose to vote and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u90	Thank you. What's more, your next bill will be. Please, I can't see Baranowski. Then we'll determine. Once again, Your Honor, I'm reminding you of the decision of the committee of profile, because we're looking at two bills: number 3263 and 3263-1. The Professional Committee and, by the way, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends the adoption of Bill 3263 and Bill 3263-1 to re-read. I'm the one who reminded you of the committee's decision and the conclusion of the head of expertise, the scientific expert. I'm voting on these two bills. There is a vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens. [[on creation and activities]] Registration number 3263. Please vote. For - 270, Decision taken. It is based on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Unification of Citizens. [[Registration number 3263-1]] I'd like to make a statement. For -146. There's a proposal, I'll remind you once again, for a first-reading draft of the bill, for a first-reading review of the bill. I'll bet you a vote on re-reading the bill number 3263-1. Please vote. For -192, The bill was rejected. The factions? Please. We'll get to tuberculosis, don't worry. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Ukrainian regions - 49, Communists - 56, Social Democrats - 3, Labour Ukraine - 29, National Agrarian - 18, Socialists - 0, Block Timoshenko - 11, Union - 7, only Ukraine - 0, Center - 12, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 5, Democratic initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 2. It's a rejected bill. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. [[on the salaries of departmental executives]] Registration number 5639. The author of the initiative is National Deputy Melnichuk. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u91	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At present, in the city councils, district centres have been formed and operated for many years by departments that carry out tasks of high degree of complexity, multifunctionality of the programme and target direction, coordinating the work related to these tasks. Within the department, there are two or more offices that function as structural units of one branch or multifunctional direction. In turn, departments function as basic structural units, such as the branch office. to perform tasks in one direction of the performance of the self-governance body. To date, the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government does not provide for the office of directors, the first deputies, the deputy directors of the department, which causes problems in the formation of pensions for the employees working in these posts. Dear friends! The adoption of this law does not require spending on the State Budget, since the financing of local government executives is made at the expense of local budgets. The adoption of this law will allow for improved remuneration for the work of senior officials in the departments of the cities of district, republican, Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine supports the proposal to amend the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. I appeal to you, Your Honor, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u92	Thank you. I can't see the storm. I'm sorry, I'm looking at your comfortable place. Please, from the Vitaly Mikolayovich Olujko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u93	Dear National Deputies! Our Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on October 7, reviewed the bill on service in local self-government and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? Two people deny it: Carmazin and Bespallian. Yes, please, from place to place for a minute, you can handle it. Carmazine, then Smokeless. Carmazine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u95	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the People's Deputy Melniczuk for having correctly understood the problem that is now in the local authorities, but it needs substantial reform. That is where the reform takes place, because today, during the city council session in Odessa, it is forbidden to speak, generally speaking, to the national deputy of the village council of Selyanin. In Odessa, hunting for everything in orange, the leaves will soon be thrown, but criminals are already stopping people who tie the orange ribbons, can you imagine? And what's proposed is to complete the fourth category of positions in local self-governance bodies, the positions of directors and deputy directors of city council departments, which I think is normal. This is concern for people who clearly serve Ukraine, not for people like Bodelan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u96	Thank you, please, Smokeless, one minute, then Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u97	Yes, I thank you, just according to the regulations, even the summary, but I do have three minutes and I am a member of the State Building Committee, a local self-government that I have very carefully considered and supported the initiative of MP Melniczuk. And that's why I think we're going to support her, too. Because only a person who has a well - protected right can protect human rights. This is what Deputy Carmazin said normally, and I want to say this time from the faction of "Our Ukraine," the block of Victor Yushchenka, that we will certainly protect and restore at work all those people who, by principle, are being oppressed by power today. On the contrary, they will answer the question of who is freeing the people without a basis. At the same time, I'd like to say that this question is appropriately raised by Melniczuk, but not entirely, and we're looking at our questions and we're going to give the status of officials of local government or government officials, according to all those who hold positions in public authorities, local self-government, in particular, I'm asking you to show me how it belongs to three minutes and not to turn off, because I have the right to speak, I'm normally written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u98	Please don't argue, don't argue. Complete the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u99	Well, I think there's something unpleasant about listening to speeches to protect local government officials, and these are our colleagues, and I'm surprised. I think we need to extend the status of a civil servant, first of all, to those doctors and teachers who work in public health institutions or in public educational institutions, as well as to those teachers and doctors who work in public health institutions and educational institutions. And that's the right thing to do. By the way, it's always been that way. And especially for my colleagues on the left, I remind you that it was Vladimir Lenin's father who was just a teacher and he had a high status as a state general, a statistic advisor. And I think it's going to be, really, an effective protection for doctors and teachers so that they don't get crumbs from a bar or something. The prime minister’s table, if any, was settled in society for a worthwhile decision. And this is going to be one of the first decrees, one of the first decisions of the People's President Victor Yushchenk, who, I'm sure, will be applauded by this entire session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u100	Thank you. Only respectable colleagues, the right of reference, is now over, everything is governed by laws. Please, Semenyuk from the place and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u101	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, when we adopted the Constitution in 1996, under the chairmanship of Alexander Moroz, we preserved representative bodies in places, that is, for the sake of the national MPs. This is one of the main thesaurus and those that were then the biggest dispute in the session room. We've preserved these organs. We have ratified the European Charter on Local Self-Government, but today we need to fill in the content of the Law and local self-government and, of course, the European Charter. And the fulfillment of these laws can be only when there are government officials who can do their work clearly, honestly, and fairly. That is why the Socialist Party of Ukraine initiated the bill. And we think the representative organs are in place. Government officials who work in local self - government And I think after political reform, executive bodies will form. This will guarantee the movement of Ukraine to Europe, to the Socs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u102	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. [[on the salaries of departmental executives]] Registration number 5639. Please vote. To - 216 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine," pull yourself up, 47, "Regions of Ukraine" - 41, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 0, "Trug Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 13, "Soyuz" - 7, "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 4, "NDP and PPU - 1, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Afterfaction - 5. Dear colleagues, please mobilize. I'm going to "Our Ukraine." No, it's not. I turn to those who have been very supportive of the bill. Please re-vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (on payment for the work of departmental executives). Registration number 5639. Please vote. For -260 Maybe we'll take it as a law. No objections? I'm voting as a whole as a law. Please vote. For -254 The law was passed in general as a law. I'm continuing our session for 15 minutes. I'd like to see you quickly, fellow officers of honor. We have many interesting laws. For example, one of them is the draft Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis. [[on persons subject to compulsory prevention]] There are two bills. Please, quickly, Bachtieu Tetjana Dmitrovna. Get ready for Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In many countries of the world, including Ukraine, tuberculosis as an infectious disease has become out of control. For this reason, the World Health Organization declared this infection a global threat in April 1993. Today, the average prevalence rate in Ukraine is 75.6 per cent per 100,000 population. I would like to draw your attention to your colleagues that among the patients who have been diagnosed with tuberculosis for the first time, about 65 per cent of them are socially unprotected -- unemployed, working age, those who have returned from prison, pensioners, migrants, persons without permanent residence. Thus, the problem of tuberculosis is not only medical but also medical and social. Among the causes of the tuberculosis epidemic are the early detection of tuberculosis. Among those who have arrived from places of deprivation of liberty, tuberculosis is found 25-30 times more frequently. Today, to address this important public health problem, it is necessary, firstly, to amend existing legislation to create conditions for effective integrated public-level control of tuberculosis, secondly, stable financial and material security for timely diagnosis and treatment of patients. To this end, a draft law has been introduced to amend and supplement Ukraine's anti-Tuberculosis Act. These are persons who have been released from the penal institutions where they have served their sentences during their registration at the place of residence. In the absence of information, their compulsory preventive medical examination for tuberculosis during the last month prior to release. Those who do not work at the time of their registration in the public employment service as those who seek employment in the absence of information on their preventive medical examination for tuberculosis during the last year prior to treatment. Further, which are members of low-income families when they are approached by public structures for any social assistance in the absence of information on their preventive medical examination for tuberculosis during the last year prior to their service. In addition, it is proposed that the bill should be included in a group with an increased risk of tuberculosis of citizens dismissed from penal institutions. The adoption of this bill will provide an opportunity to improve the mechanism for the timely identification of infected and ill tuberculosis in general, and will contribute to the revitalization of prevention activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u104	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich. You'll be more operational in a minute, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Kosinov, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine My colleague paid enough attention to the statistics on tuberculosis. I'll tell you very briefly what changes are being made to the Tuberculosis Control Act. It is proposed that the article of the eighth law be amended: regarding certain categories of citizens to be examined for this disease. Compulsory preventive medical examinations should be subject to compulsory medical examinations: unemployed persons, in the absence of information regarding their entry into the public employment service during the last year, are subject to preventive medical examinations of tuberculosis; the second category is persons who have been removed from the medical dispensary in an anti-tuberculosis facility in connection with recovery each year for the first five years after removal; and the third category is persons who are in medical care in drug and psychiatric institutions each year. The proposed changes will provide a basis for timely detection of people infected with tuberculosis microbacteria and tuberculosis patients and will allow for the stabilization of basic epidemiological indicators for tuberculosis in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u106	Thank you. Please, from the committee, Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Both draft laws deal with one issue: the need for legal security to cover mandatory preventive medical examinations of a particular group of persons, mostly social ones. categories: alcoholics, drug addicts released from places of deprivation of liberty, unemployed, underprivileged, etc. You know, we have these people in our country under this leadership, and there's an enormous amount of people in this government. These individuals make up a high - risk group for tuberculosis because of the highest rates of disease and death from tuberculosis, and the disease is very often diagnosed in the run-up stages and is accompanied by massive bacterial distribution. Hence, the individuals in question need increased attention from medical personnel and periodic examinations to detect their TB at the right time, to carry out specific treatments, to reduce their epidemic danger as the most important source of tuberculosis today. According to members of the committee, the proposal of the drafters also deserves support because they propose a fairly effective mechanism for implementing the bill. Tuberculosis testing by the population groups noted is expected to be a prerequisite for them to receive appropriate forms of social assistance. Both bills are close to the content and form of a lecture, partially complement each other, so the committee recommends that both bills be adopted on a basis, that they be drafted and submitted to the Supreme Council on second reading as one bill. The adoption of drafts in the first reading is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour and Law Enforcement. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! We are now witnessing what an act is being performed in the state. I've just been informed that today the President of the Academy of Sciences has assembled the directors of the scientific research institutes and is aspiring to vote for Mr. Janukovich. Please tell me, where else could such use of administrative resources be in which country? The people of Ukraine will show their vision of this issue and, I think, they will still choose their President Victor Yushchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u108	Dear colleagues! No one insists on signing up? Katusheva, behind her, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u109	It takes time to amend and supplement the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis. It is obvious to all that the epidemic, this terrible disease by the power of one doctor, cannot be stopped. The situation worsens every day, not every day, but every day. According to experts, the forecast for tuberculosis for our country for the coming years is very unfavourable. The situation is compounded by a parallel set of social diseases: AIDS, drug abuse, alcohol. Over the past 10 years in Crimea alone, combined with tuberculosis plus AIDS, 6 patients found a combination of tuberculosis plus AIDS. Of these, 51 per cent died of tuberculosis progression, particularly the tuberculosis epidemic in prisons, where disease exceeds the average of tens of times. According to academics Tishchenko, the incidence of tuberculosis is 71.1 times higher in detention centres and 68.6 times higher in institutions of execution than in Ukraine on average. If the prevention of this disease was at the highest level during Soviet times and the country had little problem in that direction, this dangerous disease had become a national disaster over the years of independence. The disease rate reached 75.6 cases per 100,000 population. To date, the level of disease in Ukraine is so high that, unfortunately, it only exceeds that in Africa, that is, what has happened, has arrived. The project is intended to amend and supplement article 8 of the Law on the Control of Diseases for Tuberculosis, i.e. to expand the list of population groups for which the fluorographic survey will be mandatory. It is obvious that tuberculosis is also damaging to our country's economy. If the Government spends more than $200 million on preventive measures in far from India's most economically developed country and earns 70 million profits, it does not spend any extra money on the treatment of the already ill, it is regrettable that only 44 million bracelets have been allocated in our country. As it is known, for one dollar invested in the nation's health, the State and the economy earn about $3.5 in return. While appreciating the reality of the situation in our country, it is regrettable that Ukraine cannot expect the complete or significant elimination of tuberculosis in the near future. But positive achievements such as improving treatment efficiency and stabilizing the mortality rate from this disease are at least partially halted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u110	Please, Yavorowski's microphone, Solomon's behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u111	Vladimir Yavorowski, Zovkva, Yavorov, Novoyavorovsk, Rava Ruska, and others Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor to make you think, and those who listen to you, that tuberculosis is primarily social. And in order for it to arise and an epidemic to take on super heavy social conditions. And, of course, we have to say that TB only occurs during periods of major shocks and extreme poverty in society. It was both during the civil war, somewhere after it and in the years of famine, and so forth. This also led to another accusation, of course, of an active regime that once again led to the outbreak of this epidemic. I'd like to emphasize one more. Unfortunately, but most of all, it's the most common in the correctional colonies of today. And I'm just very happy and proud that when Victor Fedorovich Janukovic was in prison, it wasn't. And it really did work out very well. Now, indeed, a man is released from prison early. In order to know that he will die, he will be cut short and released. They are, in fact, those who distribute this. Because of this adoption of this law, it is perfectly normal and must be adopted. And, Adam Ivanovich, I respect you. But understand us too. We have MPs the only place we can say anything from the conduct of the electoral atrocities that are taking place in the country. Because of this, I am grateful that you are only implying, but you are not interrupting. And the last. My speech and this discussion, Adam Ivanovich, would have made no sense if Yuri Karmazin had not spoken. That's why I'll give him half a minute, but I'll give it to him anyway. Because his comment will put everything in its place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u112	Please, the microphone from the spot, the minute of Carmazin. A minute of Carmazin. Yavorovsky saved up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u113	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to thank both the National Deputies -- and the Batechs, and the Kosins, although they belong to the opposite camps, they're under blue and white flags, but they'll soon realize that they're not quite right. In my opinion, a complex approach is needed, and I ask the committee to prepare a more serious bill, and the government to think more seriously about it. Because of what? During the years of independence alone, 52 anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums were destroyed, with a reduction of 7,000 dispensaries and 10,000. Sanitary beds. Now in Odessa, once again, part of the Arcadia sanatorium was dedicated to the city's authority for private builders. The Party of Protectors of the Homeland has filed a lawsuit, and we will protect this sanatorium. The Attorney General protested this crime. And so I'm asking you to pass this law, the faction of "Our Ukraine" will vote in favour of the bill proposed by "Regions."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u114	Thank you. In Odessa, it's really Koyek, and in Ukrainian, it's "bed." Please, Solomatin, follow him Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I agree with the definition that this is a disgraceful phenomenon, as the rise in tuberculosis is completely social. And let's think with you about what the social fabric of our fellow citizens refers to risk groups and whether there were such groups of risks back in those days that we remember you and me in 1991, when Ukraine became "independent". The unemployed, have we had unemployment the way it is today, when 7 million of our fellow citizens fled an independent Ukraine and seek employment abroad or in Russia, Italy, Portugal, and so forth? Have we had enough dependent families to make these families a source of TB? Were there such pitiful targeted social assistance, and did we even have that notion of "life support"? Have we had drug addicts in both numbers, and in the way we know and see today, every day on our independent Ukrainian television? Not only is there an indication that such phenomena exist, but even some hidden means of advertising this shameful social phenomenon. So let's take a summary with you. As a result of certain socio-economic transformations, after December 1991, the population of Ukraine is reduced by 400,000 annually, by seven million Ukrainians abroad. And in addition, we have, if in 2003, 53 million people in revenue were officially declared, 853 in 2003. We already have two billion U.S. dollars in equity! Here's the back of the medal. This is the face of his paltry capital. Only the elimination of predatory capitalist relationships in society can guarantee adequate health care for the population to eliminate such shameful social phenomena as drug addiction, tuberculosis, and AIDS. That's why I'm addressing our fellow countrymen: eliminating capitalism -- eliminating AIDS, drug addiction, and tuberculosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u116	The word is given by the national deputy Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u117	Dear MPs, colleagues! Dear radio listeners, voters! The issue of tuberculosis is a very important issue, a painful issue for our society, and today that does not touch the issue, it is linked to the social consequences that we have experienced after all the reforms we have in our country. And I'm just surprised that representatives of one another are coming out today. One oligarchic group, which is torn to power and sworn to power, this regime, all the years of independence that have led to this situation. Others come out, swear them, and also say that their opponents today have led to this situation. So let's see, when did this start? And then it started when., coming out of the place, sitting and crying, or when the gas station under the Supreme Council was being chased, when the state was being demolished, when they introduced the paid medicine, when they made our lives miserable, when they made such a mass of homeless people that we were talking about today. That's when it all started. And who introduced what is being paid today to carry out medical examinations for those with tuberculosis? And what a question you don't have to ask is the problem everywhere. And the problem is that those who are sitting under blue and white today, under blue and white flags and those who are guilty, and those who are under those flags that are tumulous in color, are also probably the biggest of their faults because they have led to this situation. [[That's where I'm showing it.]] So here's what. I don't think we need to speculate about this anymore and lead. That's exactly what the law says. First of all, we need to make sure that this law works so that these changes work. What surprises me is that in today’s legislation, there is a need for a medical examination of those who have been released from places of deprivation. And it's also suggested in the changes that in the lunar period, as it was released, there was also a test. So it turns out that we don't trust the standards that we already have. They are. And no matter what they do to us, there would be no need to talk about the need to go through it again. And secondly, I'm curious about another question: how ethical is this going to be, this examination? Will it be force? Whether there will be some humiliation, as we often do with subsidies or with them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-11-16-m1.u118	Yes, thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Yeah, we're done talking about it, we'll figure it out. Dear colleagues, once again, I remind you of the profile committee's view that they are proposing to us to act wisely, as Cherniak says, and the wisdom should be that you and I are on the recommendation of a profile committee to adopt both bills on the basis of a second reading commission to prepare a harmonized version, because they complement each other and do not deny each other. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on TB, registration number 5150, author of the National Deputy of Bacheviva. Please vote. For - 270 Thank you. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 5150-1, author of National Deputy Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich. Please give me a friendly vote. For -266. Thank you. Decision taken. The rules will be applied to those replicas made by Yuri Anatolyevich. At this, my fellow officers, the evening session is closed, starting work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Tell me about it.
