ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, take your seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:22]] A total of 438 national deputies registered. Honourable People's Deputies, in the opening ceremony of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, participate: members of the government headed by Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Selovon Mikola Fedosovic, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Philipczuk Petrovovich, Chief of the Supreme Economic Court Pritika Dmitry Mikitovic, Attorney-General of Ukraine Vasilev Hennaday Andrijaovich, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Yacenuk Arsenij Petrovich, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights Karpachov Nina Ivanovich, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Yatsenuk Arsenij Petrovich, Presidential Council of Ukraine for Foreign Affairs [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is scheduled for the fourth public call.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u2	Dear National MPs, the speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Presidential nominees! Dear Prime Minister, members of the government! Honorable representatives of the judiciary! Dear journalists, the honourable ones present! Ukraine has embarked on a decisive phase in the search for its national name and face, which will, in fact, identify with Ukraine for at least the next five years. Today's presidential elections are not just that much implementation of the democratic process of a social request for a new leader of the state. For Ukraine, this is a change of power, a change in the political era, a transition to a new stage in national history. But given that Ukrainian politics is too personified, that the President is hoped for and addressed, and all frustrations and claims are addressed, it is actually about choosing our future. With the legacy, this moment of truth can be combined with August-December 1991, and with social and political tension -- with the events and processes of the late 1980s -- the beginning of the 1990s just past years. In order for a completely ruined Ukrainian day to not turn on the once-lost historical chance for the country, so that in the heat of pre-election competitions and collisions, the axis on which our lives are built is not turned off, so that we do not have to order prayer and parades again in the face of lost prospects, the overall responsibility has and must be demonstrated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And its actions during the sixth, but like all subsequent sessions, it will be possible only when it finally rises to the full outline of its constitutional purpose, when each of us will clearly realize that the Supreme Council, by its national nature and constitutional orientation today, is more than ever in the state of Ukraine's firm capital, which has been judged in this historic section of time to determine and maintain the democratic vector of Ukraine's development. To support and strengthen against those who would prefer to see and continue the tree of Ukrainian democracy as a carved pillar, on which the decorative branch of the legislative branch of power barely survives, as opposed to those who, with incomprehensible succession, put their parliament on an act in and outside Ukraine, not wanting to understand, apparently, that this is how they put their people on the stand; and against those who want the Supreme Council to bow down on the sidelines of the state-making processes, taking over mostly the contradictions and passages of the passing laws. We are now at this point of the seismic interseason, which offers positive opportunities for self-organization, self-restraint, and the strengthening of Parliament's positions. The Supreme Council will be worth something when it has a position -- a collective, consolidated, responsible position -- and it will stand up for it. To that end, we must reject the artificially imposed division of national deputies, which in many cases forces those who have been attributed or recruited to the opposite camps and who are forced to participate in opposing rites. In order to do this, we must stop issuing unscrupulousness for political professionalism, moving away from balancing on our own interests, and making a bet on the people, not being political fortifiers. Now, more than ever, we need a civilized co-existence between factions and groups, most of them, and opposition. At the same time, it is critical to understand that the opposition not only testifies to Ukraine's democratic image but also protects it from revolutionary explosions, especially the left opposition, because under the divisive conditions of Ukrainian society, by many signs and criteria, its property and spiritual moral expansion, we have little room for consideration and reasonableness. The opposition can't be pushed out of society because it has to be a citizen's field of view, under their control, which means to her to be a responsible opposition. According to the account, we should be determined to reject the insidious practice of dividing the people into our own and strangers by dividing the parliament into hostile camps. To reject the open personal position of practical action so that they do not remain the empty sound of the line of the MP’s oath of self - devotion to the service of Ukraine and its people, but to become a kind of catechism of our dignity, honor, and conscience. We're not going to do that in this most favorable period of time, we're going to continue in and out of the session room, and we're going to have the same total war of nerves, these debilitating divorces and divorces, and we're going to destroy the institution of parliamentaryism, and no matter who becomes president. Because according to the sad tradition established, he will try to build up the Supreme Council, whip up and level the legislators under his ranks. Then we're going to talk about democracy again most of the time. Dear colleagues! In my population, you can do that, and in my opinion, you have to qualify as the first and the main feature of this session. The second feature is that the moment of choice increases the social demand for truth, the truth about the present and tomorrow Ukraine, the responsible truth, which is not about finding faults or linking all problems solely with the activity of today’s President or government, because in any case of varying degrees, but most of us at certain times were or are involved in many of the state decisions and their practical implementation. And so, when we dare to say the unbreakable truth, we must first and foremost be public and objective, clearly, rather than selectively, to see the chances, challenges, risks and threats that Ukraine faces today. The main thing is to prevent the seasonal sale of Ukraine, led by the isolation of Ukraine and, as a result, the explosion of uncontrolled emotions. This is particularly the case because most of the potential threats to national security, particularly those defined by us in the National Security Fundamentals Act, from potential to real. Including the fact that national security in the pre-election struggle is being pushed into second place, it is simply a struggle for leadership. What does that mean? In the internal political sphere, this is a violation by the authorities of the State and the local self-government of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, human rights and freedoms and the citizen, the lack of effective control over compliance with the requirements of the Constitution, Ukrainian laws, the threat of secession and dissipation of Ukraine, the structural and functional imbalance of the political system of society, the inability of individual branches to respond promptly to threats to national security, the deepening gap between government and society, between government and people. All of this makes Ukrainian democracy fragile and too vulnerable. In the social and spiritual sphere, threats lie in Ukraine's survival by prescribing the extinction of the weak. That on the surface of life there is only one who becomes a watchman for himself. That thieving privatization and total corruption have blown up the rest of the work’s morals, killed the belief that just work can be enriched, not just survival. There is also speculation about patriotism. Paul Greedy sees these threats very well, saying with pain. The people are dying, and his speech and his followers are dying with him on earth. And it won't save any of the highest developments in the economy of consumer spending, because the collapse of the people's soul will not be compensated by any wealth, no power. The overriding challenge of national security is the progressive dissolution of Ukrainian society. In the economic sphere of national security, there is a debate about the reality or intent of these Ukrainian economic wonders. Instead, we talk little about the critical state of the core production funds in the leading industries, in the agrarian and industrial complex, in life-support systems. Equally dangerous, fiscal policy is a threat, starting with predictions and planning and ending with the riddles and shadow solitaires. The country needs a transparent budgetary policy, the country needs a growth budget, not a survival budget, which responds to at least the minimum social needs. Budget with a starting point of not less than 100 billion for 2005. I am pleased that this position is constantly being pursued by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Moreover, cooperation between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, which needs to be strengthened and strengthened, allows for an acceptable budget decision. What's important and fundamental is that he shouldn't be a hostage of a presidential company. Let us live by the laws, by the same budget code, and not wait for the instructions that the new president will give us. If we act on that logic, we need to stop life in the country for two or three months and continue to complete the presidential mandate. The most serious and qualified conversation needs questions about the specifics of Ukraine's economic integration and its risks to national security. Understanding economic integration primarily in the Russian direction as an imperative of time, we also have a clear political and legislative determination that the level of penetration of foreign capital and foreign owners into the country's economy is acceptable in terms of national security. Where is the limit under which economic integration passes into political domination over us, which entails the liquidation or absorption of a sovereign state? It is equally important to distinguish objective needs, deepening international cooperation, and working together against the desire of individual politicians to change the vectors of internal and external politics one by one, putting their own country before the fact. In general, in the foreign policy sphere, it is critical not to allow further apathy to Ukraine, the implementation of an isolation strategy, or its international oblivion. It's not a secret that Ukraine remains a range of technologies for the democratization of the political regime. And that the campaign of democratic pressure on Ukraine is able not only to influence the deployment of internal political forces but also to complicate the process of further democratization of the country and the formation of an effective system of government. Respecting the advice of the outsider, we must conclude that, in our national interests, we must demonstrate the ability and desire to guarantee free, transparent and honest presidential elections. In doing so, we testify to our will to see Ukraine in the family of European nations as the fundamental foundation of our national life. We must also avoid a political and legislative answer to Ukraine’s position in the fight against international terrorism. Its habits are just as dangerous and shortsighted as its attempts to isolate and settle down. The system and practices of the Ukrainian judiciary are a major threat and a challenge to Ukraine’s national security. Dear National Deputies and Visitors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The third feature of today’s session is determined directly by the role and place of the Supreme Council in the presidential campaign. Its task is to maximize stability in the state during this transitional period; to prevent the creation of the smallest vacuum of state authority or decisions or actions following the principle of "after us, even though the flood"; to prevent society from playing with uncontrollable passions, directing and maintaining democratically elected competitions, while at the same time increasing its level of activity and effectively carrying out legislative, establishment and control functions. Since the race is already over the point of return, we now have every reason to talk about conclusions and lessons to be taken into account in the second stage of this company. I'll stop at basics, as I can see, generalizations and grades. First of all, the main thing is that there's no hope of democratic elections. At least in view of the fact that democratic procedures are being complicated as the Ukrainian society develops on new principles. Secondly, there's a lot of artificial opposition in the campaign, so to speak, to power and to the people, and to the choice of two of its representatives. Others are no less artificially pushed out for the polling field. The choices are narrowed down, which can be viewed as a sophisticated psychological form of pressure on the electorate. In general, the current practice of fighting for the presidency is a sign that the winners are going down the road, including in relation to the Supreme Council. Thirdly, with political intellectual saturation, the election contests did not go to the level of the general Ukrainian conversation, which was expected, and in many cases landed before the billing between candidates and the reaction to each other's accidents. Under such circumstances, their position rarely changes, not just the tints, but the depth, depth, of the problems that need to be solved. It is suggested that the teams of some candidates play their own candidates and impose on them the tactics of behavior, some of them the techniques of weight loss of society and black pyar. Fourthly, it's an increase in the threat of dissipation and division, and hence the threat that the winner will not have national support. Fifthly, this intervention is open and hidden by various authorities in the electoral process, a demonstration of favoritism for a candidate who, in most cases, is restricting himself, undermining the authority of the newly popular Ukrainian authorities, exposing the state in an unattractive way to the world. I'm not talking about the fact that this is coming down to the presidency and it's hurting. After all, we need to be so cut off from life that we can still live with illusions that authorities influence social sentiments. However, force can be used to convince, to be precise, to break, but it is difficult and almost impossible to maintain such conviction. Sixthly, it is an audacious disregard for constitutional provisions regarding the equality of rights and the ability of candidates to access electronic media, which is now being seen in the Queen of both national and private national and local broadcasters. Even in the presence of progressive basic legislation, even in the event of an archival political process involving a nationwide electoral campaign, even when there is an unfettered and transparent control of information activities by leaders, owners or simply censors, the sharing of information media on the cursed enemies and their "board of righteous dictionaries" has become a faulty feature not only of local television stations but also of national channels. It is not difficult to understand what is being done by television managers. Yet what an overmotivation in the actions of their crisis curators is not clear. Because at all times and times, any information blockade or information cleavage was lifted to the unattainable height of the halo of that leader who was denied the right to communicate with the people. That is the kind of figure that has received millions of support and compassion from people who are prone to sacrifice — or even self - sacrifice — in the name of justice. And finally, seventh. With genuine respect for all candidates for the post of Head of State, we cannot help but say that this number is 26 because of the simplistic notion of the role and place of the Ukrainian presidency, as well as the subject of thinking about improving electoral legislation. It is clear that the national body of the organization and election of the President of Ukraine is the Central Election Commission, the territorial district election committees, but under the circumstances of the Supreme Council should take over today: monitoring the implementation of legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine by creating a special parliamentary commission for this purpose. [[Applause]] To make appropriate calls to public authorities, local governments, businesses, institutions and organizations, their leaders, other officials and officials, as well as journalists, media leaders, public associations, and organizations; to act as guarantor of the legislative and political security of all voters — from CEC to local electoral committees — who will act in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the law. We are obliged to do everything we can to ensure that legitimate mechanisms of change are not trampled on, for this will pave the way for a coup. We are obliged not to allow ourselves to be defeated by means of scheming or force, for this will be a disgrace to the country. We have to do everything we can to prevent elections without a choice. Because even in Ukraine's short and turbulent new history, there was a choice for our citizens: 1991, 1994 and 1999. The president of Ukraine must be the one chosen by the people. [[Applause]] In his speech on the occasion of the thirteenth anniversary of our nationality, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma firmly and unequivocally stated, "Everything will happen as the Ukrainian people will decide." So we have every reason to believe that this will be the case. Dear colleagues, a specific fourth impression on the features of this session will raise the issue of political reform. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to some points that have not yet been the subject of a parliamentary debate, perhaps even general discussion, and may accordingly be considered as new elements of this twofold theme, which is supported by all major political players to a logical conclusion. First of all, this is the definition of what kind of political system was formed in Ukraine and what contributed to its formation. Ukrainian realities from the early 1990s can be imposed on democratization processes in Latin American countries, which gave the president a very broad mandate. This practice is defined as a delegated democracy. You could say that we have a delegated democracy. While, remember, we had a burst of democratic transformations, but he quickly began to overshadow the deep crisis in the economy and the growing social dissatisfaction of the people, political institutions and representative authorities dramatically slowed down in their development. [[I mean, the early '90s.]] Moreover, they began handing over parts of their powers to the president, agreeing that he should become the nation’s main support. This was found in the Constitutional Treaty and later in the 1996 Constitution. Instead, the Supreme Council began to perform fewer and fewer functions of representing the interests of the people, thereby halting the formation of a party system and political pluralism. The positive thing was that the President focused in his hands on the necessary scales for short and medium-term reforms and at the same time isolated himself from social pressure by "channeling" him to parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers, which he managed on a one-man basis. Of course, you can talk about what this has given the country, but the fact is that hyperinflation has finally been overcome as well as the way out for progressive economic growth. At the same time, such a system began to cause rapid breakdowns and to manifest its troubled spots. I'll just name some of them. Structural reforms require broad support, a interrelated responsibility of the legislative and executive branches of government. It is difficult to do so in the old system when everything is locked up in the head of state. The Supreme Council is not always able to perform its duties as an escape route, and then it begins to lose loyalty to the President, because it feels the most social pressure of its ability. Without a responsible party system and public institutions, there is no democratic consolidation of society. What's more, in the operating system -- I mean the political system -- the law on elections on a proportional basis is practically not going to work and it's going to feel more and more oblivious to the absence of independent ideological positions. There is an increasing lack of social control, especially given that the President has a definite influence on human resources policies and direct control of the power structures. The uncontrollability and initiative of local authorities is increasing. If we accept the proposed logic of reasoning, the need to make changes to the Constitution, we will certainly come to an agreed decision. I would like to highlight the agreed decision. The question will only be when and how to do so. This requires, not ritualistic spells, but consultations and compromises. Attempts to bring the Supreme Council to its knees, promote or smuggle national MPs can only be reversed by opposition and social upheaval. You can't let that happen. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Who stands high and in plain sight, and this is Parliament, should not allow himself to have violent movements. Today, those words must be addressed to all who are somehow involved in the formation of political weather in Ukraine today and its forecasts for tomorrow. We must all approach a time when balance, reasonableness, and responsibility will finally take place over the fleeting aspirations and ambitions, the emotional pull, the attempts to squawk each other, the subjective affections and antipathies, when they are serious and long, and even better, they will forever enter into the mentality and practice of Ukrainian politics. I continue to insist on this very logic of development and to believe in this very outcome of events and processes in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! At the Conciliation Board meeting, it is proposed to decide on a partial modification of the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council for today, September 7th and the holding of only the morning plenary meeting until noon; there will be about 12 to 10 minutes there so that, after the end of the plenary meeting, we will have time to work on committees, factions and groups; tomorrow we will start working on the speeches of the heads of the MPs or representatives of the MP groups and factions, and we will be invited to each performance within 5 minutes and then work on the corresponding schedule. And at 3 p.m., we'll have the committee meeting again. If there is no objection, I will put such an offer to the vote. Please vote. [[10:31:22]] For the 420. Decision taken. Yes, great colleagues. A draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Sixth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fourth Call is being announced. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, after the Conciliation Council, almost all the comments were made, the draft order of the sixth session was finalized. Some 150 questions have been added. And today, as a draft agenda, it has nearly 1,300 draft laws, codes, and separate decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's an offer, my dear colleagues, to accept this document, because virtually all of the proposals are taken into account. Please sign up for communication. Five minutes, please. Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u5	Sobolev, Zaporozhye, "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's block. The Honourable Chief, it has happened that when a number of documents were accepted, the Supreme Council apparatus ignored the submission of a group of national deputies for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry into the facts of the abuses in Zaporozhye. This was done for only one reason, for you see, the text of the decree is very long. In my opinion, if the apparatus allows itself to edit such things, we will be out of order in general. So I have a request: since not all questions have entered into the agenda, I have called a specific case, there is a request for at least one day to give to the work of all these things, all of which were submitted bills to put into the order of the day, only then to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u6	I ask the secretariat to provide information on the matter raised by my colleague Sobolev. Yes, Colonyari, faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u7	Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u8	National MP Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have really discussed this issue at a faction meeting, and only from the point of view that we want to make our work more constructive, we demand that the day-to-day consideration of 1,300 drafts, well, it will probably every once in a while arise a problem with a clear position and understanding of our work. We suggest that we consider the possibility that each faction should be defined by priority issues. Because if we are to address exclusively the socio-economic issue for society, I think our work will be more constructive and there will be no impact on the holding of the presidential elections in the parliament walls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u10	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u11	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u12	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u13	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I ask that when we put to the vote, our proposal to remove a list of bills that are not supported by individual MPs and groups is taken into account. It's an extension. That's the first one. It's different. I ask you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for reasons unknown to us, for some reason, the chairman of the committee has ruled out Project 5764. It's about celebrating the 110th anniversary of the birth of the great statesman Korotchenk. For many years he was the head of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. He is an outstanding man in the history of the people of Ukraine. And we don't know why the chairman of the committee ruled out this proposal -- to celebrate the 110th anniversary of Demyan Sergiyovich Korotchenk's birth. That's two. And third. I asked the Conciliation Council yesterday, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to deal with the problems of grain today, the price of grain and the food security of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u14	Peter Mikolaiovich, concerning Korotchenk This project is, it's just technical, it's there. That's what I'm talking about. Please, Sithina, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Kalinchuku Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u16	Kalinczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, considering that the order of the day of the sixth session was considered in committees, in factions, proposes to proceed to the vote, to vote. And given the style of work that we have, if there are any additions, we will then make our proposals in the working order. And now we ask you to proceed to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u18	Yes, Singer's giving the right to speak to Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u19	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! On behalf of the Socialist faction, I propose to initiate a good case: that after the end of their term, as in the beginning, all the Presidents should report on what they have accepted. So, let's say, the heap, it rules us for almost 11 years, how many people there were, what was the mortality, what was the birth, what was the state of the village, what was the industrial state, what was the education, what was the culture -- let it come in and come out to all of Ukraine and give answers, and then we'll know who and what it deserves. And that's what we need to do in the future so that all the presidents can tell us what country they've adopted and what country they've given up. If he's done worse, he's got to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The point is that we need to accept the order of the day of the sixth session. On each concording council, we discuss and decide on a matter, so according to the Rules of Procedure. Please listen carefully! I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? I'd like to make a statement. [[10:39:05]] For 260 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 48, "Ukraine" - 47, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 40, Deminiciatives and People's Government - 15, Labour Ukraine - 26, National Agrarian Party - 17, SPI - 17, Block Timoshenko - 0, Center - 13, Union - 17, NOP and Industrial and Entrepreneurs - 15, beyond fractional - 5. Out of procedure, please, Matthew. Three minutes out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u21	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. I welcome everyone to the beginning of the session. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you. You voted with the plugins. There's an appendix that tells us about a list of bills that aren't supported by individual MPs, factions and groups. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. Does it mean that this appendix has been voted out and these issues are included in the agenda. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to do it again. Give me a chance to ask you a question, you didn't listen. Please continue my minute. There is a list that means that there are bills that are not supported by individual MP factions and groups. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you! Are these matters included in the agenda? Are they voted? And specifically on the report of the Attorney General on Gongada?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u22	I'm told they didn't vote. Dear colleagues! Please! Yes. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to give me a chance. I'm glad you heard what the decision's made. May I have your attention, please? Let us now vote that there be no inadequacies. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? The draft agenda for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth vocation is only the first appendix agreed upon by all factions and groups, against which the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions deny it. Please vote. [[10:41:48]] For 318 Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? Now I'm voting -- pay attention! - an addition to bills that are not supported by individual MP factions and groups. People's deputies please identify themselves. Change the vote, please. Dear colleagues, we voted first. Now it's about the second plugin. We decided we were going to vote him out. So I put to the vote a second appendix, which includes a list of bills that are not supported by individual factions and committees. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[10:42:51]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 80, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 0, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, "Agrarian Party - 1, "SPU - 17, "Timoshenko" - 18, "Centre" - 13, "Soyuz" - 0, "NDP" - 0, "Industry" - 1, "Afterfraction" - 1. For reasons, please let's exchange. Calm down! Three minutes of motive. Please sign in. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u23	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, the National Movement of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask very much, and I think that this is not only my position, but also my request that in the near future or tomorrow, or the day after the Supreme Council plenary meeting, we should certainly have had the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Vasiliev, regarding the fate of our statements and mine, including the crime of Mukachev. My statement in connection with the commission of a criminal offence at electoral district number one. I filed this application on April 26th, and to this day, I haven't even received a formal receipt, and I have the impression that ours is. The prosecutor's office serves the criminal world in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u24	Konovaluk, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I believe that our position has been solely suggested, first of all, to consider the voted agenda. If we have the opportunity at the end of the session to consider this list of laws so that the authors can hope for the position of deputies, we can further consider this at the end of the session. And I think we should rule out all the issues that will politically exacerbate the situation in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u26	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I would like to thank all the national MPs who did not vote in favour of Appendix 2 and thus supported our desire to perpetuate the memory of millions of Soviet people, including Ukrainian citizens, who gave their lives for our victory in the Great War. In doing so, we carried out our duty to them to some extent, not to include those who fought on the fronts and not only on the fronts but in the rear against the Soviet armies and against the guerrilla movement. Thank you for your attention. Yeah, one more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u28	We're just getting out of the procedure. Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Oh, Alexander Frost gives the word, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u29	Deputies! I'm addressing all of you, and I'm addressing, in particular, Sergio Ivanovich Droguntsov, who just spoke to me. Each question is considered essentially during its inclusion in the sessional room. But Appendix Two included the Omelchenka report on Gongadze and other resonant crimes committed in Ukraine. We need to evaluate these crimes, not to cover up what it means to support those or other proposals that do not match our ideology. I do not think it is necessary, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to ask separately about the inclusion of the report of the temporary special commission, George Omelchenka, because it is a matter of great importance, and it is of concern to many today. Before the election, we have to get answers about the essence of everything that people know and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u30	Thank you. Time is running out, dear colleagues. Calm down, dear fellows. May I have your attention, please? Dear National Deputies! Here was a proposal to add number two to each bill separately. Calm down, please. Please listen carefully to what I'm about to put to the vote. Who's to say that the Bills of Appendix Two are not supported by the Supreme Council to vote for their inclusion in the agenda individually? People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[10:49:06]] For-103 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, I request your attention to the draft Order on the Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Monitoring the Implementation of Legislation on the Elections of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you've been given this project. I think we have every reason to put him to the vote, so that you can make sure that the Supreme Council is organized to monitor the election campaign in an orderly manner. Dear colleagues, we're not going to start talking right now, we're not going to take anything. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 6101 on the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on monitoring the implementation of legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:50:19]] For 223 How many votes do you need? Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you whether we're going to be organized to address this issue, or whether every day the Supreme Council will be blocked from addressing this issue. [[I'm talking to agrarians.]] If you have decided to have a boycott with the Chief of the Supreme Council, who proposes that Parliament work, let us not vote. Follow the direction that someone will give you, and then you will say that the Supreme Council is being despised. Have a conscience after all, I'm voting on a draft Supreme Council ruling, registration number 6101 on a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on monitoring the implementation of legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:51:32]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, Communist factions - 59, SDPU - 1, "Deminicatives of the People" - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, "National Agrarian Party - 21, SPO - 1, "Timoshenko Block" - 19, Centre - 14, Union - 0, NDP industrialists and entrepreneurs - 14, non-fracture - 11. Decision taken. A draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the authorities of the State, local authorities, businesses, institutions, institutions, and organizations, their leaders, other officials and officials is under review. You've been given this project. He has a constructive direction to draw attention to himself. [[B in m in s a l in]] One of the factions. There, read what is written. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now I'll give it to you, I can see it's not screaming. Calm down. Dear colleagues, you define. That way you can read what you're yelling at. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'm sorry. That's how they voted for the head. That's how it is. Ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, look. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the draft of this decree. To form a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on monitoring matters, implementing legislation on presidential election under the chairmanship of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To be included in the Temporary Special Commission by one representative from MP factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Involve in the work of the Temporary Special Commission on one representative from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Henprocurement, the Supreme Court, the Security Service, the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, as well as the representative of the Central Electoral Commission in the person of the Deputy Head of the Central Electoral Commission, one representative from the Coordination and Advisory Council on Local Self-Government and the Public Political Advisory Council at the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The staff of the Temporary Special Commission and its involvement in the work are added. As you give the representative. I'll give it to you. Dear colleagues, I've come to the conclusion that this project is given to you. Apologize. Let me tell you. Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u31	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I protest that before the vote I, as a deputy, have the right to make proposals to the draft ruling. You know I'm asking that word like other MPs, you don't give that word. It's a violation of the Rules, but it's rude. First. Secondly, we voted in favour of a project that will be dead if it is implemented, because by involving the temporary special commission of executives, we are completely nullifying and neutralizing Parliament's influence. And that's why we had to write "engage in the work of the Temporary Special Commission with the right to advise the representatives of the executive branch." Then the commission will make sense. If they engage with the same rights as MPs as the factions, it means that there is no parliamentary commission. And the Rules, by the way, provide exactly the order I'm proposing. So I ask you to vote on the amendment with the right to consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Alexander, I apologize to you for not being able to speak. It's very rare that I don't give you my word. But the lawyers who prepared the document did not accidentally record that they would include one representative of a temporary special commission from the deputy factions, groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then we're going to "engage in the work of the Temporary Special Commission." I mean, get involved, and these people aren't members of the Temporary Special Commission. So it's all right here, Alexander Alexandrovich, and there's no need to vote. I think we've settled this misunderstanding, haven't we? Thank you. A draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the authorities of the state, local self - government, businesses, institutions is under review. Now let them hand it out quickly. Plants, institutions, and organizations, their managers, other officials, and officials. Dear colleagues, this is a draft of a complaint that is caused by many complaints that the authorities do not function properly, but it is a statement that is made on a positive scale in order to draw the attention of the leaders of all the levels they have. They should only deal with the functions defined by law and not go beyond the law. Let's take this as the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No objections? Masenko, please, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u33	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The intention to accept such a request is, in my view, very good. But we all know that he will not act in practice. If the President of Ukraine was present, the Prime Minister would be in front of all the deputies, in front of the people, because this session is being broadcast on air, they assured that the heads of state authority would not intervene in the electoral process and would not, in practice, violate existing legislation, but we can see that this is a total violation of current legislation. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're not listening, but the point is that this address is absolutely no part unless the President and Prime Minister are interested.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Well, your suggestion, you know, it doesn't have a basis either. That's why. I think there should be a parliamentary position here. If you don't want to. Please, Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u35	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The point is that this appeal is absolutely necessary. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for developing it. But it was necessary to write and warn the heads of state authorities and local self - government about their responsibility under valid legislation. But it's as a minimum to be accepted right now and it needs to be read in full text, because people today listen to the receivers, people watch it as it's printed when it's accepted. Not everyone will see this because it will not be given to the prooligarchy media, but to the democratic, unfortunately, few. So I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to read this address and to add an explanation of responsibility in the event of violations, in any case: who would not win the presidential election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u36	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I support the need to accept such an appeal, but at the same time, when I read the addresses of journalists, media leaders, public associations, and the authorities of the state and local self - government. But when I read the text, I read practically nothing in this reference to what we refer to self - government bodies and authorities. The text is basically all written for the media. So, in my opinion, this text should make a broad reference to authorities and local self-government: what they should do during the election campaign specifically. For example, teachers are now starving in Alexandria, and schools are closing down. The local authorities are silent. Such examples can be cited in many ways, all of which go to elections, and passions get worse. Therefore, it would be necessary to specify the reference to local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, you've obviously taken the second project in question. We're looking at a reference to the centrals right now. to the authorities of the State, that is, registration number 6102. And the project that you took goes to the media of local government authorities. Dear colleagues, time is spent on communication. I'll read, there was an offer, a draft application. On October 30, 2004, the next election of the President of Ukraine will take place. Our citizens will have the opportunity to express their will to the head of state, while at the same time to confirm and strengthen established democratic traditions, proving in practice that the only source of power in Ukraine, as defined in its Constitution, is the people. The absolute and guaranteed transparency of the electoral process, the proper level of its organization, the rule of law and the rule of law during the electoral campaign, the inadmissibility of prejudice to candidates for the presidency, the parties, the blocs, the pressure on the electorate and the electoral commission. These are clear and inviolable requirements of the law. Today, in charge of the Ukrainian society, they have acquired a special principled character, setting a time-bound orientation for government and local self - government bodies, business groups, institutions, institutions and organizations, their leaders, and other officials and officials. The Supreme Council of Ukraine demands and calls upon you to promote all means of conscious formation by citizens of its will and unhindered expression of civil position in the course of the vote, to seek maximum objectivity and balance, not to use authority and opportunities to benefit from any candidate for the presidency of Ukraine, to create a level playing field for them to participate in the electoral campaign, excluding any bias and unjustified interference in the electoral process. Having taken over the enforcement of electoral legislation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its confidence that the authorities of the State and local government, businesses, institutions, institutions and organizations, their leaders, other officials and officials will do their utmost to ensure that the next presidential election becomes an event that consolidates our society will strengthen Ukraine's international authority as a democratic rule of law. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of a project that calls on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to state authorities, local self-government bodies, businesses, institutions, institutions and organizations, their leaders, other officials and officials in general. Please vote. [[11:03:47]] For 390 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft decree on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to journalists, media leaders, public associations and organizations, public authorities, and local self - government is under review. Do you need to read this project, Your Honor? I'm reading, aren't I? The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to journalists, media leaders, public associations and organizations, public authorities, and local self - government. "In the course of the pre-election campaign, the main task of the government and society should be to ensure the willful will of the citizens of Ukraine, to respect democratic principles and procedures defined by legislation at all stages of the electoral process. The role of the media is particularly important. It is up to them to be able to obtain objective, reliable, and complete information based on their conscious choice. In view of this, the Supreme Council urges you to do your utmost to ensure that the campaign is fully, objectively and impartially informed, to prevent information distortions and the use of manipulation technologies, to promote the creation of a level playing field for all candidates for pre-election agitation in accordance with the requirements of legislation. First of all, we're talking to journalists. It is up to you to be worthy of this high mission, to avoid compromising your conscience, professional and civic responsibilities, to form public opinion, to run, to be honest, and to be transparent in presidential elections. The Central Election Commission, the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the State Executive Authorities, and local self - government have been called to complete and unconditional compliance with these requirements. In particular, any administrative interference with the media should be considered unacceptable. We also call on social organizations, professional and creative associations of journalists, other institutions to apply all forms and weights of social control in this area. Considering the openness and democracy of the election of the President of Ukraine as one of the key tasks, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will, in accordance with its constitutional powers, exercise permanent parliamentary control over the electoral process, including in part the objectivity of its disclosure by the media and the equality of conditions of pre-election agitation. There are those who want to express their point of view. Please sign up. Three minutes. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u39	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm sure journalists, decent journalists, understand their role and responsibilities in the presidential election. But it is the owners of the media and, in particular, the heads of state channels. In particular, the first National Television Channel, radio channels. These people are funded from the state budget, these channels are financed from the state budget. And when you turn on any receiver, including the peach, and only Janukovic sounds from there, there's a problem whether there's really a law, order and right in Ukraine today is the same, equal to enlightenment. That's why we're talking to journalists. But I would also like to make a statement in this address to the media leaders to follow the Ukrainian legislation in the area of election disclosure. Because it depends on them, to a large extent, what the journalists themselves say. Sometimes they are not free to say what they want.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u40	Sonchenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Solomatin, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u42	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you as the author of this draft decree. You know, we've had independent journalism, we've had publicity for almost 13 years, and it's been partying. And all the journalists, who proudly magnify themselves with "watchdogs of democracy," are guarding freedom around that booth, on the stick around which they run. So I think that this decision, this is a reference to Ukrainian journalists, is the release of a couple, and this is a reference to something that you can't say about a marathon. Perhaps to some extent, it will affect a few journalists. Let's hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u44	Yes. Mikola Karnauh. Please. A faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Of course, the Supreme Council must do its utmost to ensure that Ukrainian citizens make their choice in the atmosphere of free will, but Vladimir Mikhajlovich, in the previous decree, we have addressed the authorities of the state and the authorities of local self-government. I don't think it's right or right twice, so I suggest that in the title of determination, the words "state organs and local self-government" be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u46	Yes, Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Gregory Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u48	Gregory Omelchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u49	Gregory Omelchenko, Ukrainian Republican Party Council of Officers of Ukraine Dear fellow countrymen, I would like to inform you that the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, in grave violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has not put every issue of the day's voting order into the agenda. Thus, the report of the Attorney General and the Interim Investigation Commission, which I am investigating, did not include the circumstances of the murder of George Gongadze. Vladimir Litwin, the President, is afraid that from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the commission will name the heads of state who are guilty of committing crimes against Georgia Gongadze. Mr. Litwin, I demand that you ask this question separately on the inclusion in the agenda and not hide from the crimes that you and the President of Ukraine committed against.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u50	The time for exchange of thoughts and information is exhausted. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's appeal to journalists, media leaders and public associations and organizations, public authorities and local self - government. Registration number 6103. Please vote. [[11:11:48]] For 391 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Ukrainian Codex on Nadra is being announced for consideration. Corpaña Vijacheslav Mihajlovich, Deputy Head of the State Committee on Natural Resources Prepare Rudenka Hennadia Borisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing such a rule for the consideration of the matter. Five minutes for the report, five minutes for the interviewer, five minutes for the report, respectively. For discussion and decision-making, 10 minutes. Is there any objection to such a rule of procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u51	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Taking into account the current state of market transformation of the economy, there was an urgent need to create legal and economic foundations for the reproduction of the state's mineral and raw base, rational use and defence of the nadr. The need to develop a new Code of Nadra is due to the fact that the standards adopted in 1994 of the Code of Law are now outdated and do not meet the needs of use and protection. The draft Code refines and substantially improves the task of legislation on nadra, the principles of public policy in the field of the use of nadram, the basic requirements for state accounting, and the specificities of the exercise of ownership of nadra. The authority of state authorities and local self - government authorities in this area, the particularity and order of rights to use the drama, is well illustrated. Special attention has been paid in the project to defining the requirements for mining, protecting the nadr, organizing state control and surveillance in the field of use and protection. Other major funds of the project include the creation of reliable protection of the social, economic, environmental interests of the people of Ukraine and users of the nadr, as well as the introduction of modern legal mechanisms in this area. In particular, a particular type of beneficial fossils has been identified, strategically important useful fossils that will eliminate the possibility of using them contrary to the interests of the State. The project lays down conditions for the acquisition of the user’s property on mined useful mines, as well as for the construction of underground buildings and other property related to the nadrama, which creates a reliable mechanism for protecting user rights. Taking into account the position of the Constitution of Ukraine according to which nadra is the exclusive property of the Ukrainian people, it is established that the nadra can only be passed on to the use of technogeneous fossil deposits that the waste generated as a result of the extraction and processing of beneficial fossils is offered to the property of the enterprises whose activities have ensured the formation of these wastes. In such an approach, responsibility for negative wastes on the environment will normally be placed on the owner of the waste. A separate article regulates the right to review the mining products of a neighbouring user on suspicion of incursion, which should contribute to the resolution of fairly typical conflicts in the field of use. A new concept is the temporary mining drain. It has been established that such exploration is provided by mining authorities in research and industrial development of fossil resources, as well as in the development of stocks of beneficial fossils that have not been studied by the State. Together with this, the conditions for combining exploration and the development of crops of beneficial fossils, whose geological structure is marked by an extraordinary complexity with relatively small quantities of beneficial fossils. In addition, it is suggested that the use of nadram be introduced, such as the use of caregivers. This will help to ensure that raw materials are needed, that they are not used economically. In addition, geological and marketing services are regulated in the development of beneficial fossils. The new edition of the Nadra Code is designed to improve Ukrainian mining relations and creates, on the one hand, conditions for more effective government regulation and drug use management and, on the other hand, strengthen the position of drug users and provide favourable conditions for investment in geological research and development. I'm leading to your knowledge that the bill-making committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster recommends the adoption of a draft Code on Nadra as a basis. A positive conclusion to the bill was also made by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the need for adoption of this bill is dictated by more than a decade of experience in the use of drama. We are obliged to correct disagreements and remove difficulties in one of the most important sectors of the economy. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the draft Codex in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u52	Thank you. Will there be questions? Please sign in. Yes, please show me the list. Five minutes. Kulczynski, get ready for Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u53	. I do, so pass it on. I want to see you with that question. Look over here, to the right, to the right. In concluding land-use leases for agricultural land I have met with such contracts in Poltavščina, particularly in Zinkovsky region, when the tenant places the right to use nadra, which is, even though the contract is made for agricultural work, on pie. And he places the right to use the drama there. Does this conflict with the bill or does it allow it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I'm bringing it to your attention that this is a question that is addressed by the Draft Code on Nadra, where there are clearly defined functions and rights of all the lines of executive power that can deal with this issue. The draft Code on Pomegranates deals with these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u55	Yes, please, Frost gives his word to Lechchenka. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u56	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Viachelav Mikhailovich, you were careless to say that the position of the current Nadra Code is outdated. I have to tell you that in Soviet times, nadra was used effectively for the benefit of the people. Now there's anarchy. I'm asking you to clarify what they're out of date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. First of all, I said in my report that the need to develop a new code on nadra was due to the fact that the standards adopted in 1994 of the code are now outdated and do not meet the needs of the use of nadr. First of all, the old Nadra Code does not provide an inflow of investments into drug use, nor does it provide a number of other issues that need to be addressed and that are caused by the market transformation of our country's economy. These issues are being addressed in the new draft Codex on Nadra. It is more modernized and more suitable for modern use and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u58	Please, Dry. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u59	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhiy, Zaporozhye city, the deputy faction of the "Trudova Ukraine" political party. Please tell me this bill is a government bill, and if we accept it, we share the responsibility for its implementation. I have one central, global question. Do you have strong conviction today, that is, the government’s conviction that with this bill we will be able to reduce the weight, the fiber, the subjectiveness, and the anarchy of allowing the use of nadrs, which colleagues have already discussed in this session hall. I mean, what are we trying to achieve the main central task we're trying to achieve with the adoption of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. The negative things you were able to talk about will be removed as a result of the adoption of the new edition of the Nadra Codex. It is the draft code that refines and refines the task of legislation on nadra. The very principles of public policy in the field of the use of nadrama, clarify the basic requirements for state accounting, clarify the specificities of the implementation of ownership rights and other issues that the old Ukrainian Code on Nadra has not been regulated. Therefore, the support of the Nadra Codex will be substantial and will help resolve all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u61	Please, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u62	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. According to the project, the Honourable Viacheslav Mihajlovich, bets, mechanisms, and calculations and arrangements for the congregation’s special use of natural resources are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So it's written in your project. But this is not in line with the Ukrainian tax system law, because there are tax and tax rates established by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district councils, rural and rural councils. How do we destroy this colossal? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. If you analyze the draft Codex on Nadra, these are the issues that are settled. The Cabinet of Ministers is going to develop the methodology you've been talking about, and I think these issues, which are going to go against tax legislation, will also be settled in a normal way. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u64	Thank you, Viachelav Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Gennady Borisovich Rudenko, to report. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I'll save you some time. Legislation needs to be changed from time to time, such as the Nadra Codex. The question was, What is it that's out of date, and what's it out of date? In fact, market mechanisms have come, previously in the field of drug use have dominated companies with state ownership, effectively or ineffectively, it's already a matter of other things, they've been working, but today there are realities of life, the realities of life such that, with their own resources, Ukraine's own budget, they can't handle the huge potential that's in our tops. So, of course, marketability and trying to be attractive to an investor is a base that's built into the concept of the Nadra Code. Did we, as deputies, want to become, say, initiators of such a codex? Yes, but unfortunately, we weren't ready enough in time to make our own alternative draft of the Nadra Code. So I think I urge you to vote in favour of the bill on the first reading so that we can make our proposals, which is very much, on the second reading. Because, in fact, there are contradictions, some of them are already recorded by both the expert department and our committee. But once again, we generally support the bill and ask you to give up your votes. And in the second reading, we think it's going to be the way everyone wants to see the Nadra Codex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please explain. Five minutes. Karmazin, get ready for Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u67	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, I have a question for you. How do you feel about the further attack on the rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to set the rates for calculating the mechanism and how to manage the congregations for the special use of the natural resources that are now being proposed here to be taken and transferred to the government? How do you feel about the fact that this Codex practically says nothing about environmental protection? And how this code is going to affect what you're handing out now, you know, at the time of the holiday, you're totally "cut off" "Streakthrough." [[I'm going to use a word like that. I'm sorry it's not quite literary.]] Everything was distributed among the oligarchs. And that's exactly what this code is made of, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u68	Thank you. First, with regard to your first question, Yuri Anatoliyovich, due to the lack of an article on environmental protection in the bill. I stressed that the Codex should be adopted in a new edition. Do we have any observations? Yes. We're ready to bring them to the second reading. You also had a question about the fact that the bill was somehow linked to Kruhrprom, and there was no connection here. It really needs a code. As for the question that takes power from the Supreme Council, you know, you probably know where we're responsible for this, because stakes are a market issue. Today there is an oil conjuncture, there is a need to raise the congregation’s rates, and there is a decline in the oil market tomorrow. And the Supreme Council, unfortunately, sometimes shows its incompetence and important bills and socio-economics sometimes lie in the Supreme Council for months. So I think at this point, when there is a responsibility of a solid cabinet of ministers and a parliamentary majority, that is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u69	Please, Solomatin, prepare for Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u70	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Gennady Borisovich, please tell us, from your point of view, how appropriate is the separation from the Code on Oil and Gas Issues? Will we be proposing a separate code or bill next time to regulate Ukraine's mining and metallurgical complex? Then extract uranium ore, clean drinking water, and so forth. Do you not consider it appropriate to delete this provision on the separation of oil and gas and the settlement of all these relations from the codex and on the contrary to the inclusion of this codex? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u71	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. First of all, I have a point of view. But I'm answering as head of the profile committee. So this is my next position. The Oil and Gas Act is an inheritance that we work with. So in principle, if we work on a new edition of the Nadra Code as necessary, and we put it there, including the oil and gas section, I think we can safely go back to cancel the old oil and gas project and work with the Nadra System Code. That's all, Yuri Petrovich, in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u72	Please, Bulba. Prepare Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u73	Stepan Bulba. Please pass the word to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u74	Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u75	Dear Gennady Borisovich, this codex is the same Earth code, but in the field of mining regulation. We've analyzed our committee, it's all about the proposed law, and we've decided to address you as head of the committee to send the code to the government for further work. And it was the position of all -- both communists and socialists on the committee, and "Our Ukraine," and the headship was there by the majority. So this was a common position. The Codex is not ready for consideration in the Supreme Council. For what it's worth in five minutes, no one understands. Explain that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u76	Thank you. For one thing, we do not extend it in five minutes. The question of the Codex on Nadra is in all programs, including the government. So I think that first reading is a sufficient incentive to prepare for all the parliamentary factions, all the public organizations, the professionals working in this area, so that in the second reading, this project is, in fact, one that fits the reality, because unfortunately, I repeat, this bill had to be passed back a year and a half. It takes time. So I think that second reading is a serious enough mechanism for us to work with balance and prepare, really, a good concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u77	Please, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u78	George Manchulenko, 230 district, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka block. Gennady Borisovich, I think at the time of the adoption of the new Nadra Codex, but we know that sometimes good intentions pave the way to hell. Nadra belongs to the Ukrainian people according to the Constitution, but there is a proposal to transfer Nadra to the Ukrainian people. We have a lot of facts, unfortunately, until then, when different objects are passed on to us or to the government, and then, in this way, or any other financial or oligarchic group comes up with it. We now have many examples of taking land into a long - term lease and recording this lease, including the use of nadrama. Would a new edition of this code make such facts impossible in the future so that, indeed, the people of Ukraine, rather than the use of groups, would actually alienate the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, what I want to say is that what individual entrepreneurs, pseudo-entrepreneurs, record in land lease contracts the right to work with nadramas is their own initiative, as it is not legal, so in this case I'm just asking you to be a normal legislator and explain it to people. That's why I'm here. It's a question, it's provocative, and I don't see the point in answering it at all. It's absurd, it's lawlessness, and it has to be done. But once again, this is an initiative of individual entrepreneurs. As for the fact that the nadras can be someone's own, believe me, from the point of view of our geologists, we have more than 30 trillion dollars in reserves, of which we have a very large number of explorations in our tops. The budget is 300 million dollars. I mean, with these figures and not even 10 trillion dollars, but 1 trillion dollars that are in our surplus. We're going to be using for a very long time. We don't have the potential to do that, so we need to open up businesses. which will be built on our summits they remain in Ukraine. Pay taxes, pay rent. I think it's an effective use of our talent, and the money from this use will remain in our budget, namely, in our people. And our task with you, as parliamentarians, is to effectively distribute it through the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Gennady Borisovich, please sit down. Please fill out a list on the board of speakers. We have five people's deputies. Let's talk about 15 minutes. I invite you to the words of Melniczuk Mikol Vasilovich. Karmazin will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I will express my point of view and not only my own but also my fellow experts that the codex presented for consideration by the parliament of the country is imperfect in the first reading. Therefore, we do not need to be acquiesced in order to work on our work. In general, we think that the bill that is being tabled in Parliament should go 70 percent in the first reading and 30 percent in the second reading. But when he's imperfect before he first reads it just-just doesn't need to be accepted. But on this point, I would like to make a few questions. Nevertheless, let's say, is today's code submitted to Parliament, does it provide for rational use of nadr, does Ukraine today adhere to this law on the use of nadr, or does the State Committee on Natural Resources control these issues? In my opinion, no. I'll just give you one example. The Novoselt district of Cherniewec. When the head of the district government, Nikita, took up order in this matter, and there's an enterprise like the Mamaliski Hips factory, he got the threats, "What's the reclusion here? What do you want from us?" For 10 years, this plant has been using a career that has not been recyclable for a year. And Mr. Krunszewski, who runs this factory, personally threatened Mr. Nikita with taking him out of his job. I'm sure I'm confident that the President is appointing, not Mr. Kronszewski, the head of the district government. On this point, I would like to say that it is simply a struggle for the Nadrah, for what belongs to the people. After all, what's left of people? If these leaders are packing their bags today, talking, making profits, what will remain of the people? And so today, the example of the Novoselian Hips factory can tell others that we have imperfect legislation on this subject. We organize a variety of licenses, competitions, tenders and so on, and they win bags with money. And nothing if they want to win a deal like we do or in Ivano-Frankow, there's a powerful firm, there's other firms, they're never going to win, because they're going to win with money. That is why both this code and other legislation of Ukraine are imperfect. We propose not to vote in favour of the Code, but to be further elaborated and submitted to Parliament for its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u82	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. Solomon will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! As I went to my first session, I wondered. I think what a difficult situation there is in the leadership of the Supreme Council and the government. What, then, should we first consider? Her God, I didn't know what they'd put first. When they laid down the law on. The Code of Laws on Nadra and So Inadequate, I understood the main purpose of this government. The main goal is now to adjust your visions to the nadra. You've sent them there a long time ago, Your Honor, and perhaps the answer is in this code. I will remind you of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that "and the land, its nadra, and the atmospheric air, the water and other natural resources that are located in Ukraine are objects of property rights of the Ukrainian people." That is why, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, property rights are to be exercised only by government authorities. And that's why I think that this codex is so far completely inconvenient, considering what changes are before the end of the line, for example. The second paragraph of the Final Provisions, such as "to make such changes to the Ukrainian Taxation System Act", is being amended completely. Taxation system. What are the profile committees we just heard from you? Have we heard from the budget committee? They didn't. On economic issues, we've heard what conclusion does the committee draw? They didn't. What are we doing, then, Your Honor? It's probably not where we're going. Why is this being done? So in my opinion, all of this is done to change the question of ownership and, let's say, the 27th article is already answering that question. Here it is suggested to write "if you acquire ownership of the building and other property associated with the use of the nadr, their owner has the majority right to obtain a special permit for the use of the drama" and then conduct any competitions you want. Already, the iron has the right to do so, and whoever has put something has the right to do so. And then you give at least 25 times better conditions. Nobody needs them after that. So I looked at this law, it's really raw, and I agree with the conclusions that you said. And what the stakes, the calculation mechanisms and the order of the congregation for the special use of natural resources now want to set up by the government is a total violation of both the Constitution and the applicable Taxation System Act because it is written there. That taxes and assemblies are established not only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine but also by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, by rural, rural, city councils. So we take the mechanisms of influence from city councils, we take the mechanisms of influence from the Supreme Council. And I completely disagree with the fact that the Supreme Council is ineffective there and so forth. It's completely different here. The Supreme Council is effective, it represents the Ukrainian people. I propose that we send this code for further processing and write down how we're going to protect the environment, what we're going to do with the tericons that are now in the Dnipropetrovsk region, both in the Donetsk region, and in the Lugansk region. Whatever you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u84	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine. Get ready for Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u85	Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, professional scout geologist. Dear colleagues! The Codex Codex on Nadra is as important as the Earth Codex, which is where the writings were broken. And perhaps even more important, for soil fertility, land can be restored, but what is taken from the furrows cannot be restored. The Nadra Code project launches a market relationship mechanism for drug use, but unfortunately, it is not for the benefit of the state, but, above all, the so-called strategic investor. And we all know very well that the goal of a strategic investor is to get rich today, and who's going to do this research to raise this wealth, so that we have a wealth of useful fossils not by 10 trillion, but by increasing this quantity, this code is not responding. What must be done to ensure that the yields of beneficial fossils work for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian people, for the benefit of every Ukrainian citizen, as recorded in the Constitution of Ukraine? And this is where I want to draw your attention to the fact that we, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in the government, have not been working for several years and the concept of Ukrainian rent policy is not being resolved. Finally, a few months ago, the work of this document was completed in the Mineconomy of European Integration. But some forces, and above all, from my point of view, that have their own interest in drug abuse, have slowed down the further development of this bill and it was artificially buried in. The Cabinet of Ministers. The other one. Let's remember that this is where we formed a temporary special commission for drug use when some very big problems were encountered with licensing for drug use. Where is this commission? I am also asking myself this question because I am a member of this committee, but I do not remember meeting at least once to consider these questions. Without reporting to this commission, we cannot move forward on this path of consideration of the Codex on Nadra. I would like to remind you of how this very room has had a well - broken Bill No. 3036 on licensing certain types of activity, which required the issuance of licences for the production of beneficial fossils. And "our Ukrainians," and the centrists and socialists didn't vote in favour of this bill, because they're all interested in not having order and order in drug use. So what I'm saying is that this bill can't be considered right now, even based on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u86	Thank you. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u87	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, during Ukraine's independence, hundreds of thousands of legislative acts have been adopted and it is very good that we are in the process of codifying them. But I should point out that the draft Codex on Nadra has some flaws. I think it would be much smaller if this code were passed through the Committee on Legal Policy, which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Head of the Supreme Council, is concerned with codification and systematization of current legislation. You know, in fact, all the codes that were passed through the Supreme Council were considered by our Committee on Legal Policy. And because we haven't considered it, the draft Codex has quite a few flaws. In the absence of time, I will just stop at some of them, including the other concept in article 34. The concept of servitude is the use of other people’s property. At the same time, in the Civil Code, in article 401, which is now valid and functioning, there is another concept of land servitus. It's not just a substitution or a difference of terms. All of this can lead to some negative consequences in practice. In addition, the same code grants the right to serve only for a specified term. Along with that article, article 403 of the Ukrainian Civil Code provides for the establishment of a waiter for an indefinite period, i.e. inexorably. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft of this code has not been conducted in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. But who, rather than the Supreme Court, will apply the standards of the future code, which is now being considered by the Supreme Council? So, despite some of the advantages that this draft code has, and the great work that the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Protection has done, the Chernobyl disaster, I don't think it's going to be a big deal when we send this draft code for further development, when our Committee on Legal Policy considers it and from the point of view of compliance with its other legislative acts and legislation that are in Ukraine, unless we have this code in the committee, we will send it to the Supreme Court, where there is an appropriate agreement, cooperation. And the Supreme Court, perhaps the Ministry of Justice, other interested authorities of the central government executive authority will make their amendments and proposals. So I think it's too early to vote for this whole document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Ukrainian Nadra Codex. Registration number 5471. [[11:48:05]] For-173 The decision is not taken. What is the position of the committee? Please microphone Rudenka Hennady Borisovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u89	Thank you. You're welcome to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u90	I'm making a proposal to the committee to re-read the Ukrainian Pro Nadra Bill, registration number 5471. [[11:48:49]] For a hundred and The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of this. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? When I opened the session, I was so excited that I did not announce at the right time that today was the birthday of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Loboda Mikhail Vasilovich and Kostinuk Bogdan Ivanovich. Let us welcome them, wish them good health, an active political longevity. [[Applause]] A draft law amending articles 9 and 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Local Government Administrations on officials is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5344. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Reporter, Head of the Department of Public Service, Motrenko Timothy Valentinovich Please, Valentin Timothyovich, please, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u91	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! I present to you the draft Ukrainian Act amending articles 9 and 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, which was developed in accordance with paragraph 1 of the measures on the implementation of the strategy for reforming the State Service system in Ukraine for 2004, approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 5 January 2004. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen legal guarantees, increase social protection, and protect the labour rights of officials of local government administrations, such as heads, first substitutes, and head representatives, who cease their duties in connection with the appointment of a new director. The bill provides for the completion of article 9 - "Stopping the Powers of Local Government Administrations" and article 10 - "Representatives of the Heads of Local Government Administrations" in new parts with specific guarantees for the heads of local government administrations, their first deputies and deputies in the event of their release for independent reasons, namely, the end of the term of office or the appointment of a new leader. These government officials are guaranteed a prior job or equivalent job and position, or an average monthly salary of up to 6 months, provided that they have held these positions for at least 3 years. If such a release took place less than six months before the former head, the first deputy, the deputy head of the local State Pension Administration, and during this period was unable to take office as a civil servant, he will not lose the right to a civil servant’s pension when he reaches retirement age during this period of employment. The guarantees provided for in this project are offered taking into account the effective legal protection and guarantees offered to members of the local councils. Thus, members of the local councils who worked on the council on a permanent basis after the completion of such powers in accordance with article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils are given a prior job, and in the absence of any other equivalent work at the same time or with their consent at another enterprise. In the event of the inability to work properly with them, there is no more than 6 months ’ wages. The changes envisaged in the project will help to ensure the only approach to legislatively guaranteed social protection for the relevant categories of civil servants and local self-government. The solution to this issue is particularly relevant, honourable national deputies, on the eve of the election of the President of Ukraine. After the election of the new President of Ukraine, the vast majority of the heads of the first deputy and deputy heads of the local government will be released from office and will require adequate social security for their term of employment. This is about thousands of no worse states.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u92	Please allow the report to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u93	In view of the above, the adoption of the amendments proposed by the bill will reduce social tension among the relevant category of civil servants, as well as preserve highly qualified and experienced personnel for the future. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u94	Thank you, Timothy Valentinovich. Have a seat, please. The focal point is the head of the State Building and Local Government Committee, Anatoly Volodymyrovich Orzhachowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u95	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 21 April this year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending articles nine and 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, introduced and a review of the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft law provides for certain legal guarantees for the social protection of persons who have ceased to exercise their powers of head in the local government administration and its deputy. It is proposed that the heads of the local government authorities be assured that they have been released in connection with the completion of the term of office, the granting of prior work, and, in the absence of another equivalent work. The project also envisages extending the operation of article 37 of the Law on State Service in part of pension and financial assistance to civil servants who have reached retirement age after their dismissal from the post of head of the local public administration during their employment. The bill also proposes that these guarantees be extended to substitute heads of local government administrations who have been released from office in connection with the suspension of the authority of the local government administration to which they were subordinated. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government did not determine the draft law on the matter. The voices were divided equally. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of April 13, this year, proposes to reject the bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u96	Yes, thank you, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to discussion two, two against. Please state on board the name of the national deputies who have been registered. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u97	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I, on behalf of our Ukraine, would like to welcome you once again from the beginning of our session. And here's what I'm going to say about this bill. The very wise Jewish philosopher Melamette put it this way: "When everything is in place, many people lack space." I think there's something symbolic about our Supreme Council rejecting today's Nadra Bill, which was designed to help the Marauders who know that 55 days from now they're going to leave this area, so they're going to clean up and clean up, and the banks, and so on. I want to say that this bill has been so planned and is being tried today that I think it's only for the benefit of Ukrainian democracy. I remember how in the early 1990s, the same nomenclature of the then Soviet Union managed to protect itself at the last moment, to raise wages, and it actually came back against them. In this bill, the additions that are proposed, I personally see exactly the same. [[This is article 9 and article 10]] Before these guys get out of their offices, we want to protect them. People are good! Each of us has about 200,000 voters behind us. We don't think about them, and on the first day of the session, we want to protect these, which means officials from district and district administrations. It's at a time when I've just literally walked around a lot of neighborhoods and I've been performing, and they're running like red mice when someone comes out of opposition like we're no longer national deputies and we're not allowed to communicate at all. [[Chernigovishte Districts]] I am absolutely convinced that today, if we do this, and we vote, it's immoral, it's deeply immoral. I'm convinced that after the presidential election, you can actually review this whole bill today on government officials. What did they do for independence, tell me? Except bribes, that's what every person will tell you. In general, a moratorium would have to be imposed on the Law on a civil servant today. These are not the kind of servants we have today who, for example, have improved lives in Ukraine that serve our people. I'm firm on this and I strongly call you not to vote for this project. He's not in time, and he's just gonna be immoral for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u98	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u99	Eugene Hoornik, Valley Electoral District, "Our Ukraine" faction. Deputies! The question of this bill is quite artificial. He asked why such projects did not arise in 1999 in previous presidential elections? But because the state administrations had to resign after the President's election, it was practically unapplied. Yes, I imagine high-quality government officials in local government administrations and, on the one hand, they do have almost unlimited powers in their areas and, on the other hand, in their areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u100	Just a minute. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the tragic events in Beslan City of the Russian Federation, the President of Ukraine, by his decree, decided to honor the memory of the dead today at 12 o'clock throughout the country. Please honor the memory of the tragically dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u101	Please sit down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u102	Vladimir Mikhailovich, but please continue because there is no time control here, I don't even know how much I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u103	Yes, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u104	I feel for the employees of the government administration. They really are the hostages of the system. I'm sure a lot of their statements are in the district administrations. If I don't get the right percentage in the election, they have to get rid of their seats. But we need to understand that this system is immoral and that it cannot exist for long. We are looking forward to the presidential elections and reforms after them. And the role of government administrations after these elections is unknown as a result of administrative reform. The general practice is that similar guarantees proposed in this bill have only electoral authorities, and that is not the extent to which the bill provides. So I agree with Deputy Yavorowski that this bill is not being considered in time. What's more, he's built up, that's the conclusion, that's the right conclusion of the Science and Technology Authority, that for first-class government officials, this question can be resolved by amendments to the relevant Act on State Service. But I think we should go back to the next session. At the moment, this bill I propose to take as one that does not correspond to political realities and stands, and has a political order, and is not on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u105	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of this issue and then we will finish our work. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u106	Yuri Karmazin, Party Protectors of Motherland, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would take a special name for such a project. It's like, "trying to save the manuals of the regime" or "to save the cuchmonoids" or "Save Who Can." The people themselves will then determine how to name one or the other. But I'd like to take a legal approach to a similar bill and only from a legal point of view. I'm sure you don't have to be afraid of the state officials of the presidential election. I am also convinced of this, and I urge future President Viktor Yushchenk to assess people by their quality of business, by their loyalty to the State and by their adherence to legislation. Clearly, such as a representative of the head of the administration in the Komunternov district of Odessa. probably will be put to trial for the things that have been done now, in general, another thought is forbidden, in the Comintern district, the officials of the administration involved in the agitation and so on and so forth. But what does this have to do with the law? And that's why, I think that the commission that we made with Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think it's going to benefit. The State Service Act establishes that government officials who held posts in the 1st category for at least 3 years and who were released in connection with the change in the composition of the body where they worked, or the end of the term of office, keep the average monthly salary for the period of employment, but not more than one year. Thus, it is said that the issue of heads of regional governments has already been settled. It has already been regulated by valid legislation. With regard to questions related to substitute heads of district or district administrations, this is totally unwarranted. And more than that, I'd like to ask the people who are preparing this project. Where is the economic justification for this project? After all, no project can be considered without economic justification. What it's going to cost for the budget is that the people who led to the largest famine in Ukraine, to this bushmoon famine, now we want to keep them from the budget and then retire in a timely fashion. Although article 37 of the Ukrainian State Service Act states that one of the conditions for the assignment of a pension is the availability of an appropriate state service. So it seems to me that even such an attempt to save those who today are breaking the law or forcing someone to break the law is very, very unsuccessful. And we had to do better. Of course, like all decent people, I will vote against this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u107	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u108	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear friends, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. There was just a minute of silence. Yesterday, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine led by Alexander Alexander Moroz visited the Russian Embassy. We expressed our sympathy to the Russian people and to those families who had suffered from the terrorist act. What about the law? I agree with my colleague Yavorowski that perhaps, yes, we should take care of the electorate, not those who work in the executive branch. But we have, as socialists, a different idea. Let's not think about what's going on there today, but think about what we're going to do tomorrow, and that's what's going to happen, and we're going to work with these people. And if changes are made to some law today, we will talk about this law that we are talking about today, it certainly is being strengthened. So we need to think, vote for this law, support those who work today and in the executive structures, because tomorrow we will have to work with them. And as for the other issues that have been raised here, I would like to say that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and once again Alexander Alexander Alexander the Ice spoke and spoke of us going back to the Local Self-Government Act, strengthening that the representative authorities on the ground would still be the authority that would influence the economic situation, the social development of the region, and not being an accessory to the executive branch of government today. Or we've made a village council with some kind of executive structure that today the country's head, who is elected by the people, will in principle be subordinated to the heads of the district government. This should not be the case. How, then, can he, in his actions, speak, insist on the development of that territory if he is dictated otherwise by the district government or the district government? We, dear friends, have a lot to work on, and we still have to look at the laws today in the context of what it should be, not in the context of the election campaign, which our leader Alexander Alexander Moroz insists on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-07-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the draft law amending articles 9 and 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations has been completed. [[on officials]] The Committee has not taken any decision on this subject, and recommends that the Supreme Council decide on the bill. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the adoption of a draft law, registration number 5344, amending articles 9 and 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Local Government Administrations for Officials. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:09:46]] For-149 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? The committee's proposal to reject. The bill was rejected. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with our decision, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. After lunch work on committees, factions. Tomorrow we'll continue to work 010 hours according to the approved schedule. Thanks for the job.
