ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u1	Please come to the session room and take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:45]] Registered -434 A total of 434 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Let's move on to the draft ruling. draft decrees for the election of judges. The reporter is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Is there a Vasil Vasilovich? Please, Vasil Vasilovich. So, the draft decree was 4540.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You're looking at a draft of Decree 4540. In accordance with the draft regulation on article 85, paragraph 27, part 1, of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee considered the candidates for election on an open-ended basis and introduced the session of the Supreme Council to : the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk district of Krivostya Anatolia Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov District of Berdnikov Ludmila Leonidivna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Šik Viktor Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Gitomir district of Malakhov Natalija Maratovna; the Court of Appeal of Lviv district of Gnatov Nestor Ivanovich; the local Vilnius District Court of Zaporozhye County, Alexander Leonidovich; the local Melitopolski District Court of the Haluskov Natalija Vasilovna District, Mrodovenko Viktor Valentinović; the local Priazova District Court of Zaporozhye district of Babak Allu Mikolayovna; the local Kyivo-Svetoshin district court of the Kyiv district of Koczarbu Mikola Petrovic; the local Malovskiski District Court of Kirovograd District of Brezija Yuri Anatoliyovich; the local New Year’s District Court of the Luhansk Region of Dobrivecher Leonid Dmitrovic; the local Kremenack district court of the Ternopil district of Varnavic Ludmila Bogdanovna; the local Velikoburlutsky District Court of the Kharkov district of Nestajk Yuri Viktorovich; the local Tsurupina District Court of the Herson District of Majdanik Viktorovich; the local Solomonian District Court of Kiev, Himich Volodymyr Mihajlovich. The Committee considered all the nominations, and the complaint did not gather all the decisions of the Qualifying Commissions, the Supreme Court's recommendation, so the Committee is proposing the selection of the unscheduled candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? The committee's proposal has just been published by the committee's head. I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 4540]] Please vote. [[16:06:05]] For 362 Decision taken. Please come in. Not all, dear fellows, not all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u4	A draft Supreme Council Decision on the election of judges is introduced on an indefinite basis until: the local Nicopolian City Court of Dnipropetrov district of Shessakov Zulfia Sabitovna; the local Jaremcan City Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Hanszük Dmitr Mikolaiovich; the local New Ukraine Regional Court of Kyrovograd, Stałów Vladislav Mihajlovich; the local Pecher district court of Kyiv Bernacko Jeanne Alexandrovna;
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u5	There's a note about Bernacko. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u6	To the local Shrine District Court of Kiev, Larissa Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u7	Yes. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u8	The committee considered the candidates for Bernacka's complaint, the complaints addressed her, and the committee admitted that there were no unlawful actions in the actions of the judge, and there were no actions that would violate the oath in court, but I understand that there were also additional claims in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u9	Then let's do it this way, dear fellows, vote for the expulsion of Bernack's Jeanne of Alexandria, and then we'll take a separate look at the issue. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of Supreme Council Decision No.4540-1 on the election of judges on an indefinite basis with the deletion of the name Bernatsky Jeanne Alexandrovna. Please vote. [[16:07:52]] For 342 Decision taken. Please, Bernacka Jeanne Alexandrovna, come to the microphone. Yes. Alexander the Turk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Vassil Vasilovich, I want to address everyone, and I don't understand what it means to have an unbreakable oath to the judge. When a judge who is obliged to consider the issue of the illegality of detention within a three - day period examines it for six months when the judge merely because there is a complaint against Piscoen, the lawyer of Fedor, refuses to accept it at all if it is not a violation of an oath. We have, in general, honourable colleagues, the Cave Court has a specific court. But Mrs. Bernadska, I have attended her meetings several times myself, it's a low level of expertise. And that's engagement, prejudice. It's not a judge. I think Mrs. Bernadski should be sent to the torture department at the Attorney General's Office. She'll probably be better off working there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u11	Please, Jeanne Alexandrovna. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u12	In the case of the Fedura's subpoena to the U.S. Attorney General's Office for the protection of honour and dignity, I have, in fact, considered the case over a period of six months. But there were good reasons. Caller. What's the other case?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u13	It's Fedor's business.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u14	What about the other case?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u15	For reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u16	The defendant named Fedur himself who was on the hospital list. In connection with the failure to appear in court proceedings, a representative of the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine was further requested from the Higher Qualifications Commission of documents, materials concerning the plaintiff of Fedor’s concerns.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u17	Committee position, please. Vasil Vasilovich, what does the committee think about this? Then Onitchuk. Onichuk, please, microphone. Then there's school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, high-ranking judges and candidates for the post of judges! The activity of Judge Bernatsky because she works at the Cave Court in Kiev, where there are many important institutions, including the Attorney General’s Office, has been subject to a rather thorough study by the committee. It seems that three or four times we have postponed the hearing of various petitions by the judge, and for about two years we have been on the complaint committee itself. And the committee concluded that there was no professional misconduct in the activities of the judges, which could have been the basis for her not being elected judge. Moreover, I have in my hands the ruling of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 15 January of this year, which is left unchanged by the Kyiv Court of Appeal. The committee expressed the view that the Committee of Legal Policy was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u20	Wait, one more phrase. And the Supreme Council cannot be an organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u21	Don't wait. Rules out the microphone. If you need to, ask me to extend the deadline. Don't direct me. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u22	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm just worried about another procedural situation. I know it's okay, but why does the judge report from the rostrum? I don't know, maybe she'll be out of town right now, he'll be out of Vice Speaker's seat. She might as well report it. There's also a microphone. We have to respect everyone here in principle. I don't know, there should be a microphone. Is there a breach? What a violation. Well, I'd like to draw the attention of all the national MPs present. The answer to Judge Bernatsky once again confirms her qualifications. In addition to the different letters, I could not hear the answer. So once again, let's not close our eyes to low expertise -- that's the first thing. Engagement in the second instance. And the important thing is that even from this rostrum of the Supreme Council, which it came to for unknown reasons, it tells a lie. Because Fedur's lawyer wasn't in the hospital at the time. He was simply taken away and thrown off the case and dragged away for so long. I ask you not to vote for incompetence and engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u23	Yes, who else has any warning? Please, Jeanne Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u24	Please tell me why, at the present time, the Fedur does not question the timing of his criminal proceedings for the same reasons, circumstances?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u25	Yes, thank you. Jeanne Alexandrovy, calm down, everything. Dear colleagues, we have listened to different sides. I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to elect a judge on an untimely basis, Bernack Jeanne Alexandrovna. Please vote. [[16:13:24]] For 283 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, next order. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I will report back to the committee and I would like to say that this is not my personal position. It's a committee decision. So the next decision of the committee, you have a draft order of 4540-2 on the appointment of judges without delay until: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Buryan Svetlana Sergiyevna, Volkovetskie Natalija Alexandrovna, seller of Ludmila Valerovna, Widowishka Aleksandra Sergiyovich. To the Kiev Court of Appeal, Maletic Mikhail Mikhailovich. I should point out that as far as Volkovetsk Natalya Alexandrovna was concerned, literally yesterday, she joined the Complaints Committee, and before that, we didn't have time to check her out. Therefore, in order to objectively inform you of the circumstances of the complaint, the committee is making a proposal, so our decision was made yesterday to move the question of Volkovich Natalija Alexandrovni to the next session. There are no complaints for everyone else, we ask for support from the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u27	Is there no objection? I'm voting for the election of judges on an indefinite basis, the registration number of the ruling, the draft regulation 4540-2 for the removal of Volkovetsk Natalija Alexandrovna. Please vote. [[16:15:09]] For 299 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u28	The final ruling - 5003, on the release of judges in accordance with article 85, part 5, of Article 126, is proposed by the Committee to dismiss the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd, Bird of Viktor Mikolaiovich, in connection with his 65 years of age, Judge of the Pavlovrad City Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Semenut Vladimir Aleksiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation, Judge of the Rutniv district court of Volinsk, Lukyanchuk Tetjan Sidorovna, in connection with the application for exemption at his own request. We checked all the documents, there were no reports of any pressure on the judges. The legislation has been implemented, there are appropriate decisions, so we are proposing to support the draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings and no comments? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the release of judges, registration number 5003. Please vote. [[16:16:36]] For 345. Yes, thank you, decision taken, for -345. Let's welcome the newly appointed judges. We want them to serve the law with honesty, loyalty, and the rule of law. Thank you and welcome. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have a pending second reading of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Tax Laws in relation to the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the 2004 State Budget, read again. This is a well-known bill under 4000-1. Out of procedure, please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u30	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this long-suffering bill is somehow always submitted by the committee that is supposed to bring it up for sessional consideration. Because today we're given three documents, today we have three documents that apply to this bill: one comparative table, then the final comparative table and additional positions about it, and no document is included in the full scope of the bill. Thus, for example, it is still unknown how it is proposed to be put into effect: as of January 1, of this year, of January 1, of the following year, or of July 1. It seems to me that, first of all, I need to make a note of a committee that is not worthy to prepare a bill normally for consideration, and second of all, not to consider such a chaoticly broken document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u31	Vladimir Leschchenko. Then there's Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u32	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The government that rushed the bill to the Supreme Council, the 2004 State Budget, practically destroyed the budget system for this year. Now I've introduced, later the 4000-1 Thick Bill on Amendments. Now adds the final version of an additional comparative table to these individual positions in addition. He now adds his proposals to the final version of an additional comparative table. I think it's the abuse of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is necessary for the government, along with the budget committee, to work seriously on these documents and bring one in so that we can consider and then vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u33	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Do you understand? Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted the government of Ukraine to witness this adoption because I think he needs it most. I wanted the Prime Minister to be present here, because it seems to me that in the interests of the government, everything will happen in the interests of Ukraine, not just in the interests of the national MPs. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to say that this bill 4000-1 we have to and we have to look at if we look at it, because there are always different documents coming here, just in an articleistic way. Statutory voting, according to each individual article that makes or removes the budget. So I emphasize, I want this bill, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to be considered in two circumstances: in the presence of the Ukrainian government, and to be considered in an articleistic manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, here is, yes, a proper colossal, huge confusion of a pernicious law. We decided, in principle, that we would consider it at the Conciliation Council. Now we have perfectly legitimate reasons to question the possibility and the relevance of the debate, so I'm going to put a vote on whether we're going to consider this bill today or whether we're going to let the MPs know. I'll put it to a vote. Now, if you would like to see if we have any reason to consider this bill. [[16:21:27]] For 247 The will of the Supreme Council -- I'm announcing the beginning of this consideration. Reporter, Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear national MPs, colleagues! I would like to give a very brief speech on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Banking about this bill. [[I would ask you not to interfere.]] On January 1, the Budget Act became effective. This is a very strange law. Suppose, for example, that the village is discriminated against, that it is overtaxed by housing or medicine, that standards are established that prohibit the use of machinery to import goods in order to do its programs and so forth. That is why the Committee on Finance and Banking called on the Supreme Council of Ukraine three times, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the relevant laws three times. Today, the bill is fully in agreement with the government according to the extra sheet that you received at four o’clock. And on behalf of the committee, I would like to support this bill in second reading and in general, and correct the disadvantages that have occurred since January 1st last year in our economy. If there are any specific questions on individual articles, I will be happy to answer and comment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u37	Not a question, but a vote on it. No, wait, the articles have to follow up on what questions may be. Let's do it this way. Starting with the first article, let's move on. Aah! One moment, I beg you, Sergey Teryohin. Now let's do a co-report to the head of the Committee on Budgets, and then let's move on to the vote. Let them express their point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets discussed the proposed bill at its meeting yesterday at number 4,000-1. The discussion was extremely difficult. Of the 27 members of the committee at three times when this bill was put to the vote, the maximum number of votes that was put to support this bill was even the first time we made a decision to take into account the trusts that were presented by the people's deputies that were at the beginning of the committee meeting. The committee drew 13 votes from 27 registered. What explanation is there? Of course, the vast majority of the tax money proposed by the Committee on Finance and Banking is indispensable to the State, and it is imperative that operators be more transparent, but we are deeply convinced that we will not build our tax system with such precise blows. For a year and a half, the government has a tax code. For a year and a half, we commit ourselves to making a simple, understandable tax system with tax reductions, an expansion of the tax base, and the elimination of tax benefits. Sadly, all these desires remain in the air. And the strong evidence is the vote on Bill 3677, where we continue or extend the overpriced benefits, where we raise taxes today, which results in higher prices and a higher standard of living for the population. We are absolutely convinced that without tax reform, without the adoption of the tax code, we cannot escape. So first, as a prologue, as the most unpopular step in order to sort out the tax system, of course, the 4,000-1 bill is necessary. But why it was urgent to accept it. Only because, in an untransparent procedure of breaching the Rules without discussion, without taking into account the conclusions of the budgetary committee, without taking into account the full decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the budget in the first reading was adopted, was the budget, more precisely extended through the Supreme Council, which, despite a warning from my high rostrum, resulted in the destruction of the food and processing industry, because the MPs, regardless of whether they were able to convince themselves in the majority or in the minority, by communicating with their electorate that the food industry had reduced the volume of expert production by more than 30 per cent, that the book publishing had fallen by 50 per cent in January alone. And the key thesis that we have to break here is the thesis of responsibility. And when we say that for the adoption of the law that has led to the decline in production volume, to the reduction of production in certain areas, it is certainly the responsibility of both the government and the political forces that voted in favour of this budget. So unfortunately, we have a long way to go today from being responsible. But there is really a need for this bill to be adopted. In fact, this bill, which today contains, may correct me about 200 pages. And with these two-mast pages, we only regulate 57 pages of the Budget Act, which once again gives us a vivid indication of how much quality budget we've adopted. But if you choose less than two evils in terms of action today is actually a non-professional budget, if you don't have the tax code and you don't have the tax code, with two less evils, you're going to adopt that law. And despite the decision of the Budget Committee. We don't have a single vote, I have to inform you on behalf of the committee that the discussion on the Committee on Budgets was about the approval of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u39	Sergey Teryohin, please, and let's go to the articles. Then we take this table, the honorary colleagues, who were completed in 22.12.2003. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u40	I would like to draw attention to that table that was given this day, the final version of the compare table. This is a fully agreed option with the government, with legislators. No corrections are rejected in this option. So in our rules, we're actually going to talk about nothing. Plus, in addition to this option by the government, I would like the government to express its position, given to you at four o'clock, a little table. She speaks of statistical and legal remedies so that we do not go back to that law, deciding where to put whom and where to put the emphasis or any distinction. The proposal to vote on this bill. We've done a big table twice. Taking into account this final version of additional inputs and this small sheet. Therefore, in view of the fact that there is no appeal against any of the ideas that we have agreed, as a committee with the government and the budget committee, I would like to ask for a vote on the adoption of this law in the second reading and in general on the basis of these two documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u41	Government position, Mikola Janovich Azarov, First Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The government supports this position, supported by national deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u43	Yes, once again, Sergey Terjohin, make a proposal to the committee, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u44	Dear National Deputies, once again: there is a proposal for a committee that invites you to vote in the second reading and in general Law 4001, taking into account the additions that have been given to the deputies of the Supreme Council today. The government agrees. Let's correct those inadequacies, I'm very sorry, I can say apolitically, but let's correct these inadequacies that we had with you in this room when we adopted the 2004 budget. Let's not make fun of people and businesses. Let us adopt this law. This is the position of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u45	I'll put it to a vote. Change the vote. What question? Out of procedure, huh? Is It With a Motive? Please, from Pinzenik's motives and from Nikolainko's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u46	Dear National Deputies! I'll remind you where the problems came from. Problems arose when the budget was accepted without discussion in this room. And the whole tax system was put on its feet. And now we need to fix a lot of nonsense. I would like to point out that we support the abolition of many of the nonsense that has been allowed in this room by the budget vote. And we will vote for these changes. But we want to warn. That, along with this project, we're going to have to accept new nonsense. Because we started the practice without discussion, without an article vote, and in a few months we'll be back on the problem again, because no MP could even get to know the content of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u47	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u48	Respectable. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter, Sir Sergio. Nikolaynko, National Deputy Ivan Sidorovich Boki has made changes to article 4 of the Income Tax Act, and you have Amendment 4.3.3.6, where we propose not to talk about the number of hectares, because we have today in the Hersonian region, Mikolaiivsky, Odessa standard of pie can be 14.17 hectares. And people today don't have to rent this pie. It is automatically added to the support farm and then taxed below 13 percent. We suggest that we write: “The income is not taxed. The income of citizens from sales made in a private support household is not taxed on the adjacent garden area of plant production, beekeeping, livestock, rabbits and so on.” And this is an active norm that has worked to this day. And I want to tell you, Mikolo Janovich, I'm addressing you, you know this situation. She acted normally before that and did not demolish the population. Because we want to tax automatically the grandmother who was today joined by the President's decree beyond her will 10 hectares of land. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u49	Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u50	I'd like to say that. According to the version given to you today, the limit is two hectares of dowry and support farming, two hectares. I'm very sorry, on two hectares -- I love all those who make the national product of Ukraine -- but on two hectares you can do two bird factories! We're giving you the opportunity not to pay taxes on this. What MP Nikolaynko is proposing. If you write it this way, according to the Earth Code of January 1st, it's going to be 100 hectares. And according to what the government has offered us right now, and there's a draft law, a 100-acre limit in private property will be removed and you can have a thousand hectares, 10,000 hectares. So imagine, Mr. Nikolaynka, you are now proposing to exempt from the taxes of future latifundists who will have thousands of hectares of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u51	Thank you. Alexander Turchinov, microphone. It's a motive. All I'm asking for is motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, apart from the many nonsensees budgeted this year by Mr. Azar and the company, were foolish about taxing periodicals, which was never before in our independent country. I'd like you, Mr. Terrohin, to make it clear that this law is proposed. Because, I know, there are proposals to change this problem and to withdraw the tax on the added value from periodicals. I regret that not all the adjustments that have been made in this regard, especially I do not see my amendment, and the Artemenko in the materials given. But I'd like to ask you another question. Those periodic editions that come out in Ukraine, but not all of them in the national language that have a subscription per year, how will their taxation be due to the fact that, as I understand it, they are exempt from VAT only on a periodic basis, which is printed exclusively in the national language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, let's make this happen: it's not an evening of answers and questions. If there's an amendment, it doesn't work, let's vote. Please, Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u54	No, I'm sorry, it's a very painful question, I'd like to answer very briefly. If a subscription has been made, no additional taxes are made. For this, there are 4 additional standards that apply to the 80th article of the State Budget, i.e. there is no revaluation, there is no price increase if the subscription was made. There are no questions at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I am. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm not. I was going to say that I'm fully supportive of the Niklaenka MP, because the reporter is completely misinterpreting the concept of pie. When we talk about pies, it goes to pies when the lands that man has personally received are scattered. That's the pie you're talking about. And that's why this notion of "paisture pie" has to be done, because it's really in the Mikolai district of 8, 10, 12 and 14 hectares. And that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u57	And it's going to be 100 and it's going to be 1,000, I'm very sorry. And, sir, as a representative of the agrarian faction, you know very well that there is an initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture to remove a ceiling of 100 hectares in the Earth Code. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u58	Yuri Carmazin. It's about pie, the difference in pie is half a hectare or 1.5, and it's up to 20 hectares of pie. That's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u59	Yeah. Or maybe 100. Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u60	He can't. In different regions it has different ob.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u61	I'm sorry, the question asked is whether people who receive income from this pie should pay 13 percent tax. We wrote "they don't." If you have a product that you're selling, you produce a land plot that doesn't have more than two hectares. For God's sake! If you have 14 hectares, let's say you have no questions. You have 2 hectares of benefits, but all the rest -- please pay our nation's social funds a little tax we set out on January 1st 13 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin, I've already announced. Dear colleagues! Sign up, five minutes of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u63	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Sergey Anatolyovich, please tell me, are they going to put to the vote now what amendments, the ones you made on this volume, because I've been offering him proposals, or the ones you've accepted on 03.02, or else? Pisarenko and I had a question there: 600 million will be saved for the budget. Is the VAT on newspapers to make sure that people don't curse us today, or that they don't curse us in the village for what they did, so-called, most of them are still pushing everything around? Or maybe let's rewrite this table now, or then let's do one, two, three tables all of them, because the revisions all have a number from the first. I want to understand how I can now defend my right as a national MP for a legislative proposal. Explain to me, please, an experienced MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u64	I'm telling Mr. Carmazin no less an experienced MP than he called me. You had a very clear opportunity to come to the Committee on Finance and Banking, to the Committee on Agrarian Policy, to the Committee on Budget Affairs, where you discussed the standards that you were now asking questions about. This is a collective effort that is fully compatible with the government. And if you don't want to change the one, I'm sorry, the chairman who's been set up by this budget since January 1st of this year has no questions, we can lift this law, and we can continue to abuse people and businesses in this Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u65	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for motive, five minutes, because we're all going to be speaking now. Five minutes, please log in. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Alexander Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, in fact, as Dusty here said when the 2004 budget was adopted, did a lot of stupid things. They've introduced the VAT of a peasant on every egg sold there or a chicken, or they're going to grow a cabana, or someone's going to feed the bull. They introduced VAT on each kilogram of cucumbers or potatoes. The VAT rate for processors has been cancelled. If today’s nonsense is not corrected by the majority, tomorrow in our market, respected friends, food will rise to at least 30 percent. See what is happening today. There's a product we sold abroad: dry milk, let's say, the same goat. No one is sending it now, as these tax frauds have prevented dairy factories from buying raw materials. So let's get these fools fixed and the socialists will do it to make it easier for the peasant to participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u67	Thank you. Microphone. Instead of Salamathin, Chelnokov has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u68	Dear Sergey Anatolyevich, the Chelnok Communist faction. Sergey Anatolyevich, I'll have your attention. As you know, Sergey Anatolyevich, as already mentioned, there are over 200 pages of paper here, taking into account all the amendments, roughly speaking, we have not seen the final version today and, roughly speaking, we do not know what we are voting for. In particular, you said that it was proposed to vote in favour of the regulation, taking into account all the amendments and those discussed and adopted on the budget committee. This is the case with amendment 5.2.14 of the Taxation and Income Act. Hence, perhaps not all the amendments are taken into account or the fate of this particular amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u69	I'll let you know. Yesterday we had a discussion on a budget committee on the taxation of unfinished construction. I want to say to the stenographer that the committee made a decision, and that's what the big table 4001 says. If it's not enough, I'd like the Legal Authority to give us additional comments when we issue this law. It's written like that. In the event that an object of unfinished production was acquired before January 1, 2004, taxes are applied to it according to the system that was at the time of purchase of the object. I'm saying that for the stenographer. And I would very much ask, I know our discussion, I would very much ask that the Legal Office help us fix this if it's not completely written.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, the speeches come out of motive. Please, Boyko Volodymyr Semenovich instead of Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u71	General Command District, One Ukraine faction, Boyko. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished fellow MPs. I earnestly ask that you finish the discussion and vote in favour of this law in the second reading and in general. If we move forward and watch what we do, we will not adopt this law again, which we all promise the people of Ukraine this year. I strongly request that the debate be concluded and that the vote be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u72	Martinovski, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u73	The committee supports this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u74	Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u75	Vaszczuk, please, Martinowski gives the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, if we break this law today and start voting, throw something away, and add something to it, we will violate the exact logic behind which they were built, the law was built to correct those mistakes, the disadvantages that today are not only in tax legislation, but in the articles of the budget, but also in other laws. In particular, in the Law on Income for the Income of Individuals, for which we speak. So, honourable colleagues, with respect for everyone's opinion, I'm still asking to vote in favour of this law as a whole. Only then will this be a comprehensive and useful document for the people and the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u77	Thank you. We exchanged thoughts. And according to the Committee's proposal, supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs, I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2004." Registration number 4000-1. Please vote. In the second reading and generally as a law. [[16:48:30.]] For 296 The law is passed. Thank you. Let's move on to the section "Re-examination of laws with proposals by the President of Ukraine." The factions? Please report to the factions. Announcing the Ukrainian Act on Third Courts with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 6.10.2003. Reporter - Deputy Justice Minister Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna Get ready for Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u78	Miss the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's "On Third Courts" Act was returned by the President of Ukraine for reconsideration on such grounds. In view of the tasks and specific functions performed by the designated courts, the law should provide for arbitral tribunals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u80	Another Ivanovna, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I understand your good festive excitement, but don't forget that right now we're listening to what might be confusing -- the law that has been passed and what the courts are going to do. So let us listen carefully to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thus, given the specificities of the tasks before the arbitral tribunals, the law should provide for a control mechanism by the State, and that is why the President of Ukraine proposes that this law be supplemented by a new article that would provide for a state registration clause. an active arbitral tribunal. Given to you now and approved by the Committee on Legal Policy, the new edition of Ukraine's arbitral tribunal law provides for the addition of this article, and, unlike the positions proposed by the President of Ukraine, there are no such positions in this article. First, what the President suggested was that the state registration would take place within a month, a 15 - day term was proposed for consideration, that the form of the application should be established by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, and at the same time, payment should be paid in size and order for the registration of a permanent arbitral tribunal established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. With regard to the first provisions regarding the registration terms of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to point out that the current existing laws, such as those on citizens’ reunification and political parties, provide for a two - month period of registration. The president of Ukraine offered the month. The law you're looking at right now is about a 15-day term. I would like to point out that this term cannot be evaluated for registration, a proper assessment of the qualifications of the documents submitted for registration and, in particular, because the law foresees that the registration should be carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Third Courts, the provisions on the Court of Arbitration and the Rules on the Court of Arbitration. Next. The next position that has not been taken into account is that the application form should be established by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The approval of such a standard form of application will certainly speed up its review and resolve the issue of the permanent registration of a permanent arbitral tribunal. And the last. What was proposed by the President is a size adjustment, a fee for the registration of the arbitral tribunal in size and order has been set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. I also want to remind you that any administrative services in the law are subject to payment. It's not settled in this law. And there were two other proposals made by the President. The first involved article 39 of the law, which provided for the possibility and order of providing an appeal, which is the subject of an arbitral review. First of all, it's not based on interference and transfer of individual powers. In particular, ensuring an appeal during the arbitral hearing of a case to a competent court that does not take the case before it is brought, and not knowing its specificity, will carry out separate proceedings and will make appropriate decisions. In connection with the above, article 39 was proposed to be expelled. And the last. The suggestion was to exclude chapter 8 on the issue of arbitral self - government. According to article 139, section 2, of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the activity of judicial self - government is linked solely to the system of courts, that is, the system of courts of general jurisdiction, and not to the system of arbitral courts. At the same time, the stated position of the law under consideration is not essentially part of the authority of self - government as such, since it does not address the internal activity of the courts. The questions of representation and the protection of the interests of the arbitral tribunals should be dealt with in accordance with legislation, and a separate matter could be settled in the provisions on such courts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u82	Thank you, Inna Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. Dear colleagues, I think a committee representative will be here in a moment, and you and I will begin to decide on this bill. Please pay attention. We'll vote with you. I'm offering two options. If there is no objection, we could immediately take a decision, vote in favour of the committee's decision, that is to say that we accept some of the President's proposals and adopt the law in a new edition. Because if we follow the procedure purely, we would have to vote separately on every point made by the President. I mean, we agree, right? Please, Roadside.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u83	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues. I have a proposal to agree and to vote on a new text immediately, a new draft of the bill, because the committee has been working on it. And actually, even if we only take one point from the President, it's going to be a new one. Therefore, if the committee does not object, the request will be put to the vote for adoption of the bill in a new edition. This will save time and make it possible to work more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u84	Thank you, Alexander Victorovich, for your support. Dear colleagues, please mobilize. The Ukrainian Act on arbitral tribunals with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 1347. The bill is redrafted. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u85	Please be supportive. [[16:55:56]] For 313
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u86	For -313, the law was passed in a new edition. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, is being heeded. [[Registration number 1055-2]] Reported Chief of State Service Motrenko Timothy Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u87	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! According to the President of Ukraine's mandate, Ukraine's Office of State presents proposals by the President of Ukraine regarding the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. First. Subparagraph 3 of paragraph 1 of the law, which has been signed by the President, provides for amendments to article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Governmental Authorities in the part of the decision on the assignment of new posts not specified in this Act to the relevant category of posts in local self-government bodies solely by the adoption of the relevant law. Article 99 of the Constitution does not refer the mentioned question to those established solely by law. Thus, the legal regulation of the matter can be done in a different way than the adoption of the law. At present, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a body on which the Basic Law provides policy enforcement in the field of employment, is responsible for the placement of new posts in relevant categories and positions in local self - government bodies. [[Article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution]] According to practice, this approach is justified because it allows the matter to be resolved promptly if necessary. Therefore, the President of Ukraine considers it necessary to maintain a valid procedure for the appointment of new posts to the relevant categories of positions in local governments. Taking into account the highlighted sub-paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of the law that came to the signature, it is proposed to exclude. The other one. The objection of the President of Ukraine also prompted the proposed in paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of the adopted law to supplement part 3 of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, which sets out the criteria for determining the size of the official salary for rural, rural, urban, district, district, district councils. In particular, it was predicted that the county, village, city, city, district, and city salaries were determined by the authorities of local self - government, but not above the official salary of the head of the appropriate district council. The establishment of the size of the local government, the village, the village, the city of regional importance at the level of the respective district council is considered invalid by the President because the terms of office and the functions of the district council officials differ significantly from those of the local authorities of the villages, villages, and districts. In addition, the introduction of such a standard will lead to a dissatisfaction in the work of officials of local self-government at different levels and violate the principles, conditions, order of employment of budget workers, depending on the size and complexity of the work done, as defined by valid labour legislation. I take into account what has been said, sub-paragraph 1 (b) of paragraph 2 of the law that has come upon the President's signature to exclude. Talk to me. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine partly took the opinion of the President of Ukraine into account before this subparagraph of the adopted law. It has been established that the size of the salary of rural, rural, urban, district - sized cities is determined by local self - government authorities, but not more than 90 percent of the salary of the heads of the respective district councils. Third. In addition to the proposed changes in pay, section 6 of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government defines the order and conditions for granting additional leave to officials of local self-government. [[This is sub-paragraph two of the law which has been signed]] The proposed new edition reproduces the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 27 April 1994 No. 250 on the order and conditions of granting to civil servants, officials of local self-government additional paid leave and amendments to Cabinet Decision No. 1396 of 26 October 2001, which, according to the President, is not appropriate. Moreover, the adoption of such a change in law would violate the principle of the harmonization of the relevant laws governing the conduct of the public service and the service of the local authorities. In this connection, paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 is proposed to be excluded from the law that came to the signature. Thus, from the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, two are not included in subparagraph 3, paragraph 1, and paragraph 2, paragraph 2. Partially accounted for proposals under paragraph 1 (b) of the law. It is proposed that the law be passed with the amendments proposed by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u88	Thank you, Timothy Valentinovich. Have a seat, please. Ivan Vasilovich Ivancho on the rostrum. We have a situation, our respectable colleagues, just like the previous law. So the committee has taken some of the president's comments into account and suggests that we accept it in a new edition. I'm addressing you, Your Honor, if there's no objection, let's vote again on this very key, not every amendment individually by the President, but a proposal by the committee to adopt the bill in the new edition. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, we have very carefully considered the President's proposals, and given the fact that the local self-government authorities are not government authorities, the positions relating to the first and third paragraphs should be regulated by law. We cannot explain on round tables or in discussions or international meetings what categories of positions in local governments are established by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by law. The last change was four years ago. I think every five to six years, one position can be changed by law. And the third position, if in the prosecutor’s office, military officials and other additional paid leave and so forth is established by law, why should the Cabinet of Ministers for local self - government bodies be established by law? The Cabinet of Ministers, not the law. You can't explain anything either. I think the second point that's made with the changes, and here's the proposal of the Shurma People's Deputy to translate 90 percent as well as the fourth category into a new edition. And support the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u90	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. It's all clear. Dear colleagues, then there were no suggestions on how to vote. Then, with your consent, I am voting on the Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on service in local self-government with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, registration number 1055-2 in the new edition. Please vote. [[17:04:00]] For 380 Can we beat the veto? Thank you, the law has been passed in a new edition. The Ukrainian Act on State Property Management is being complied with with with with by the President of Ukraine's proposal to repeal the law. The reporter is Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine cancel the earlier decision on the adoption of the law on the administration of public property. The argument on the necessity of repealing this law is as follows: part of the provisions of this law do not directly meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, article 116 of the Constitution states that the only body that manages public property is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This gives rise to the right of the Cabinet of Ministers, in particular, to manage the listed objects on their own or to identify the authorities responsible for the administration and to place appropriate functions in the administration of state property. Meanwhile, the law that came upon the President’s signature set out a comprehensive list of subjects for the administration of state - owned entities, which included the designated Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, contrary to the requirements of the Constitution, the State’s property is completely deprived, the Cabinet of Ministers cannot fully exercise its functions in the management of state property and determine the circle of subjects of government ownership. According to the law, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is also deprived of the right to determine the extent of the powers of the authorities in the area indicated, since the limits of their powers are directly defined by the law that was approved. Under the law, the Cabinet of Ministers is virtually removed from the administration of public property, which is directly linked to its authority. The Cabinet of Ministers is not entitled, it provides for what is now provided for by valid laws to be passed on to the administration of the central authorities of the executive branch of the government. The second important point is that at the time of the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of this draft law to the Supreme Council, we have not yet adopted the Civil Code and the Master Code. Hence, the law did not take into account the provisions that came into force today as of January 1. There are a number of provisions that today do not conform to the rules of the Civil and Master Codes. Therefore, there is a problem with bringing the law into line with the basic codified acts. The third problem is that the law narrows down the scope of this law regarding the circle of public property. Thus, a large part of government property, such as shares, shares or pies of corporate enterprises transferred to statutory funds of households, such as those created by the State in exchange for corporate rights, is put outside the law. In this case, it is also about stocks worth more than 10 billion dollars, which are now at the disposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, and which are cited in this argument may be lost by the State as a result of uncontrolled privatization. It cannot be accepted that article 11 of the Act states that after the transfer to the statutory fund of a state shareholder company, shares belonging to a State are owned by a company of collective property rights. Not only does that nullify the meaning of the term "State Shareholder Society," but it's probably the main thing that actually leads to the alienation of state property. With regard to state-owned shareholders established on the basis of state-owned enterprises that may not be privatized but may be corporate, this would in fact mean their privatisation contrary to the Ukrainian law on the listing of state-owned property that is not subject to privatization. This list of shortcomings and shortcomings of the law is inexhaustible. That's understandable. It's been a long time since it was developed. And given that the law requires substantial reform, especially in view of the possibility of regulating it, the President of Ukraine proposes that the law be repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u92	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have a rare case. Rarely, when the opinion of the rapporteurs coincides with the decision of the committee of profile. The Special Committee recommends that the President's proposals for repealing the bill be supported. That's why I'm putting to the vote a motion for repealing the Ukrainian Act on Government Property Management, Bill No. 0962. Please support both the President and the committee of profile. I vote friendlyly. [[17:10:27]] For 229 The law has been revoked. Although there were no 229 or no more votes, the law would still be repealed. Don't worry, because the decision wasn't made, so it's gone. A decision has been made to repeal the law. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency, with the President's proposals, is under consideration. [[Registration number 3089]] Reported to Deputy Head of National Bank Šlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u93	Mr. Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies. The Act of Ukraine amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency provides for the settlement of the issue of overcoming the external economic activity of the established terms of accounting under external economic contracts, which are due to the emergence of force majeure. In doing so, I would like to point out that part of the sixth law that has been passed provides two ways to resolve the problem. One is the issuance of an individual licence by the National Bank, and also the option when, in the event of force majeure, the time-limits for processing are suspended for the entire period of time when such conditions are available with the relevant information provided by the Chamber of Commerce or by another authorized authority of the State which issues appropriate evidence under such a contract. Thus, these two ways, in our view and in the opinion of the lawyers, may conflict. And we've proposed, and this is what the President has supported to leave only one way to remove the important imbalances on this issue, namely, to put an end to the entire duration of force majeure in these 90 days. This is a proposal that has been widely supported by the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and ours. entrepreneurs. So we ask them to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u94	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. This time, too, the president's opinion coincides with that of a profile committee. The Special Committee recommends that the President's proposals be supported and that the law be passed in a new order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Finance and Banking has considered this issue. In fact, there is a contradiction in this law regarding the definition of the passage of force majeure. And so we support the President's proposal to delete sub-paragraph one of this bill. And I ask you to support this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency is on the vote. [[Taking into account the President's proposals in the new edition]] This is registration number 3089. Please vote. [[17:13:56]] For the 220. That's how I'd like to address the committee. Better yet, to uphold the law or to reject it? To uphold the law. Who's to vote that question again, please make up your mind. Vote. [[17:14:38]] For 272 A decision has been made to put us to the vote once more. Be careful, Law 400-1 has already been passed. We don't have to worry about him anymore, let's make some other laws. It's about voting on the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Securities. I'm sorry. "The order of reckoning in foreign currency" with the President's proposals. This is registration number 3089. On the adoption of the law with the President's proposals in a new edition. Please vote. [[17:15:30.]] For 269 The law was passed with the President's proposals in a new edition. The Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks, with the President's proposals of October 24, last year. Registration number 3171. Reported by a member of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u97	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, taking into account the President's proposals, the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Law on Securities and Stock Exchanges. In doing so, it should be noted that the proposals relate to standard-setting techniques and duplication of legal standards, which may make it more difficult to apply these bills. First. Article 2 of the first-mentioned law proposes to amend article 3 of the Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks, complementing the list of securities with mortgaged securities. Considering that Parliament has passed the Mortgage Act, where the Final Positions have already introduced this, it is proposed to exclude the specified rule from the bill. In addition, in connection with an editorial error in the title and paragraph of the first section of the first law, the words "for securities and stock exchange" are proposed to be replaced by the words "for securities and stock exchange", which correspond to the title of the law. Please support and adopt this bill, taking into account the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u98	Thank you, Sergey Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. First Deputy Chairman of the Kaputin Committee, Victor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u99	Dear National Deputies! This bill, like the previous one, is more technical than principled. So in order to avoid duplication of the same terms in two laws, it is proposed to remove mortgage and mortgage securities from the Securities and Stock Exchange Act, because these terms are in the Mortgage Act that we adopted. So this is a technical question and the committee supports the President's proposal on this issue and is proposing to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u100	Thank you, Victor Vladimirovich. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! Once again, the President's proposals and the opinion of the decision-making committee of profile came together. The Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Exchange Stocks is put to the vote to be adopted in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. [[17:18:34]] For 271 The law was passed in a new order. Let us turn to the question: The Ukrainian Oil and Natural Gas Rents Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Act of 28 October 2003, registration number 3286. First Deputy Finance Minister Feder Alexiyovich Jaroshenko will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u101	Honorable National MPs. The President's proposal is the following, firstly, the law's proposed methodology for calculating rents and oil production in Ukraine and natural gas has significant shortcomings that could lead to a legitimate payer lowering its payments to the budget. Because it is based on individual characteristics of oil and gas crops and products. Article 5 of the law provides that basic taxes on rent payments are the cost of oil and natural gas, determined at contractual or regulated prices. But not lower than normal prices, and the normal price under current legislation is the price of selling goods determined by the parties to the contract. So the seller, who is a wager at the same time, can set a normal price, significantly lowering it, and thus lowering his liability for rent payments. Noting that article 7 of the Law contains uncharacteristic formulas and tables that are not clearly defined. Such a method would unwarrantedly complicate the control over the correctness of the calculation of the rent. Furthermore, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Rented Payments for Oil and Natural Gas does not meet the requirements of Article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which Ukrainian laws that affect the income and expenditure portion of the budget should be officially published by 15 August of the year preceding the planned. The following remark concerns the provisions of the law which provide for the termination of Presidential Decree No. 785 on the establishment of an oil rent and natural gas production in Ukraine. Such a rule is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not give the Supreme Council of Ukraine the right to revoke the act of the President of Ukraine. It should also be noted that the standard of paragraph 4 of Section "Transitional Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine", adopted in 1996, does not apply in any way to the decree issued in 1994. And last of all, the definition is general. Oil and natural gas payments as rent payments are not in line with the legal basis of the rent, which is part of the contractual obligations and whose principles are defined in chapter 56 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which has already become effective since 1 January of this year. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the above, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject Ukraine's oil and natural gas rent laws as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u102	Thank you, Feder Alexiovich, sit down, please. From the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u103	Dear National Deputies! The president's comments were considered, the amendments to the bill were made, the form was worked out, it was taken into account that the bill really affected the income part of 2004 and the law introduced chapter three, the amendments, since 1 January 2005. But the committee's proposal, the co-workers on the single committee, has to adopt this law in order to normalize the rent and legalize the oil and gas industry to have a financial plan and plan its investments for the current years. And so the committee's proposal to vote on this bill in a new edition, as proposed by the committee, was first proposed in a new edition, as voted in the arbitral tribunals. Dear Adam Ivanovich, please make a proposal to the committee to vote on the bill in the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u104	Thank you. Mikolo Mikolaiovich, I'm already here. Dear colleagues, according to procedure, I'm going to put a motion to the vote first by the President and then your proposal. Dear colleagues, I'll put it in such a sequence. The President's first proposal is to repeal the law. If it's not accepted, then I'm going to make an offer to the committee to accept it in a new edition. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to repeal the Ukrainian Oil and Natural Gas Rent Act. Registration number 2306.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u105	The committee asks not to support but to vote in the new edition. [[17:24:46]] For the 180.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u106	The decision is not taken. I'm putting in a second proposal, a committee proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Oil and Natural Gas Rents Act in a new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u107	The committee's asking for support. Dear colleagues, please support me. [[17:25:14]] For 248 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, which has been proposed by the President of Ukraine since 25.04.2003, has been announced for consideration. The committee, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, are asked to postpone consideration of the matter so that they can reconcile positions. Is there no objection? So the review of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 25.04.2003, is being carried over. The Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property, with the President's proposals of 04.08.2003, has been announced for consideration. Rapporteur: Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovic. Please. Get ready, Buttercup. Will any of the committee be there? Is there a Vladimir Alexiyovich? Okay. Very briefly, please. We've looked at this document once before.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u108	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, we have considered this issue and a working group composed of representatives of the committee made a number of suggestions, but unfortunately, if examined, the President’s proposal was taken into account only in 107 articles. In particular, we believe that article 1 of this law should be made in the form proposed by the President of Ukraine. That's right. The delimitation of state and municipal property is to take institutional and legal measures to identify and transfer land from state property to municipal property and to establish the nature of land areas of state and municipal property. This is confirmed by taking into account the final edition that is being considered today, the fourth proposal by the President of Ukraine, as I said earlier, to article seven. Unfortunately, this proposal in the first article is not similarly taken into account, and the whole concept of the law is being destroyed. In the article of the seventh law provided for in paragraph one, the word "belongs" is replaced by the word "received", which is the principle of land delimitation. And please support them. The proposed editorialization of President of Ukraine's proposals in part two of the third article is not taken into account, because the Law on State and Communal Property Delimitation in itself in the development of article 117 of the Earth Code establishes a simplified procedure for the transfer of land from state and municipal property. On this basis, please support the proposal made by the second President of Ukraine to include the second part of the second part of the third article. Next. Partly taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine in the article of the sixth law in question is unacceptable. Therefore, we believe that this article should be presented in an editorial proposed by the President of Ukraine. Also, I'd like to support you. And finally, the honourable national deputies. Please support the President's proposals to enable him to have an active law that will not allow for the creation of different coalitions in the land reform process. Thank you for your attention. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, report complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. As the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources said, our committee, as well as the experts of the State Committee on Land Resources, have carefully considered all the President's proposals. One is completely counted, two are taken into account in editorial and partial terms, and one is rejected. I propose, on behalf of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Resources, that the bill be adopted in a new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consider this procedure. Those Presidential amendments that the President doesn't take into account or in part and that the President disagrees with, we have to consider, and we will continue to determine. I mean, vote -- I mean, not count, but decide, vote. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the first president that the committee rejected. Please vote. [[17:29:57]] For-162 Correction not counted. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the second president, which is dealt with editorially, but the President disagrees. Amendment 2. Please vote. [[17:30:22]] For 163, Not counted. And the third president's amendment, which is partially counted. The President demands that it be taken fully into account. I'll put her to a vote, please. [[17:30:48]] For 208 Not counted. I now put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt the Ukrainian Law on Distinguishing State and Municipal Property in a new edition. Registration number 2098-1. [[17:31:21]] For 368 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Law on Representation of Ukraine abroad, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 12.08.2003, has been announced for consideration. Reporter - Yelchenko Volodymyr Yuriovich Vladimir Yuriovich. Please. Prepare Vitalia Shibko. It's weak. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to stress the important role of this law in the implementation of Ukraine's foreign policy, because it is aimed at maintaining Ukraine's international relations and it is for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to implement it in practice. The development of multilateral cooperation between Ukraine and other states and with international organizations requires a permanent representation of the State abroad. Today, more than 100 diplomatic representations of Ukraine are in place abroad. Their activities are carried out in accordance with international law and the national legislation of Ukraine. The bill defines the status, basic tasks and functions of the Ukrainian institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u113	Vladimir Yuriovich, I'm sorry. Here, let's do some repairs. If you agree, there is no comment, then we will continue to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u114	After the first review of the bill, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Committees of the Supreme Council shared a great deal of work. All the President of Ukraine's proposals are taken into account. We support him in that way and ask you to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u115	Thank you very much, Vladimir Yuriovich. Please, Vitalia Yakovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! The committee has considered all of the President's proposals carefully, all of them included, and the committee is asking you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u117	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Representation of Ukraine abroad with the President's proposals. [[Registration number 2171]] All the President's proposals are taken into account, and then I ask you to vote. [[17:33:45]] For 345. The law is passed. The Ukrainian International Contracts Act has been announced for consideration with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 06.06.2003. Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Igora Ostaša please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian International Contracts Act is not signed by the President of Ukraine on the grounds that the individual provisions of this law do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, and other provisions worsen the legal regulation of relations with regard to the conclusion of Ukraine's international treaties. As for the constitutional position. According to section 2 of the second article of the 9th Act, ratifications will be subject to all, without exception, to Ukraine's international agreements on receiving loans from foreign states and international financial organizations. This provision of the law does not correspond to the special standard of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines the authorization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the area of the approval of decisions to obtain loans from foreign states, banks and international financial institutions by Ukraine. In particular, according to article 85, part 1, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine, Parliament’s approval requires decisions to obtain the specified loans only in cases where the corresponding loans are not provided for by the national budget of Ukraine. As for other decisions regarding Ukraine’s borrowing, their actual approval by Parliament is in the form of a national budget of Ukraine. There is no other approval of such decisions by the Supreme Council. As a result, Part B of Part 2 of article 9 of the Act proposes to introduce in the next edition a general economic, economic and technical cooperation, general financial issues, the issue of lending and economic assistance to foreign states and international organizations, and the receipt by Ukraine of foreign states, banks and international financial organizations and loans not foreseen by the State budget of Ukraine. The second position relates to article 28 of the law, which establishes that parliamentary control over the implementation of this law and of Ukraine’s international agreements, which are binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is exercised by Parliament, and it is established in what way the Supreme Council carries out the prescribed parliamentary control. In the meantime, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council exercises only those powers that are related to its knowledge of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[See sections 2 and 2 of article 85.]] Parliamentary control is carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine within the limits laid down by the Basic Law of Ukraine, the order of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established solely by the Constitution and the law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Article 85, part 1, paragraph 33]] Thus, as a result of the Constitution, the borders and order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's parliamentary control of the law on Ukraine's international treaties cannot be determined. In this regard, part two of article 28 of the law is proposed to be disfellowshiped. Article 2 of the Law stipulates that an international treaty by Ukraine may be concluded with a foreign State or another subject of international law. International organizations are such subjects. This includes part two of article 3 and part one of article 4 of the law, which deals with international agreements made by Ukraine on behalf of Ukraine and on behalf of the government of Ukraine. At the same time, a number of provisions of the law cannot be applied to Ukraine’s international treaties, which have been or have already been concluded with international organizations. This is part of part three of article 3, part one, part four of article 6, part two and part three of article 12, part one of article 13, and so on, which uses the terms “inter-State treaties and intergovernmental agreements” that do not cover the international agreements of Ukraine with international organizations. In order to avoid this gap, the law proposes appropriate international agreements to be marked as international agreements that are concluded or concluded on behalf of Ukraine or on behalf of the Government of Ukraine in such a way as to ensure that we can also apply treaties that are also made with international organizations. Thank you for your attention. Please consider the proposals made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u119	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor the rest of you from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u120	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! At its December 10th meeting, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the President's proposals for this law on Ukraine's international agreements and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the confirmation of the law passed on May 15, 2003, by a constitutional majority of 313 votes. The President's proposals are basically twofold. The first point is to make decisions on the ratification of international agreements that address the issue of loans only when they are not budgeted. And the second is the issue of parliamentary control over the implementation of international agreements. The committee thinks they're constitutional. do not allow ratification of all international agreements that were actually made for the purpose of either granting or obtaining international loans. And given that Ukraine's external debt is now almost $14 billion, and given that our external debt has increased by $329 million in just the last year, the committee believes that the Supreme Council should be left with the right to ratify international agreements that deal with the issue of loan. And of course, the committee also believes that the right to parliamentary control should be left, because it really corresponds to the norms and spirit of the Ukrainian Constitution. And so you are asked to confirm the law of Ukraine, which was adopted by the constitutional majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u121	Igor Ivanovich, and how to understand what the comparative table says: the committee counted all the President's proposals except for one, and here it proposes to reject everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u122	I'll explain. The committee has made a decision that we propose to confirm the law in the event that such a decision is not made, we will follow the pattern that is in the comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, according to the procedure you are proposing to lay down the law to overcome the veto. There is no practice of confirming the law. If the veto is not overrun, the law will be repealed. Either you're going to say that the committee wants to be specific, or let's take this up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u124	The committee proposes to confirm this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u125	I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to beat the President's veto on the Ukrainian International Contracts Act with the Ukrainian President's proposals of 06.06.2003. [[17:42:17]] For-162 Veto can't resist. Then, my fellow officers, all the President's amendments are included in the comparative table except for one. This is the 12th amendment. So I'm going to put the President's amendment to the vote, and then we're going to be determined. I'm voting on amendment 12 of the President of Ukraine, which is rejected by the committee. Please vote for her. [[17:43:02]] For the 250. The President's amendment is counted. And also, your honorary colleagues, the number six amendment committee of the President has partially counted, but the president insists on taking it fully into account. So I'm voting on amendment number six. And please vote. [[17:43:32]] For 203 This amendment is not accepted. Not fully accepted, only partially accepted. Dear colleagues, the committee considered the amendment in part. The president insisted on taking it completely into account. It's not completely accounted for. It remains partially considered by the committee. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act in a new edition. Registration number 0924. Please vote. [[17:44:19]] For 355 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on the conduct of pre-election television debates during election campaigns by the President of Ukraine and the election of Ukrainian national deputies, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to repeal the law of 02.03, has been announced for consideration. The year 2002 was one of Ukraine’s Justice Rapporteur Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Please. Prepare Igor Ostrash. Who's there? Artemenko, yes, I get it. I ask you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, very briefly, because we already know the text, everyone has to be an MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine has proposed a series of proposals for a law that has been discussed today because the subject matter of this law is regulated in a series of other laws. And the proposed editorial has some problems with respect to the constitutional rules of citizens, the President of Ukraine proposes that the law of Ukraine be rejected. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u127	Yes, thank you for the position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u128	The committee considered the bill and suggested that it be repealed. We come from the fact that this bill was drafted two years ago. He's got a lot of claims, there's a lot of mix-up, and we think we need to cancel it, and for our part, we want the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare and submit a bill for the 5th session on changes in the legal regulation of the conduct of television debates by candidates in the President of Ukraine. It's either because of the President of Ukraine's law or because of the electoral law, but we don't think it's necessary to do it in a separate law. That's why we're proposing our order at number 0932.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the Ukrainian Law on the conduct of pre-election televisions during election campaigns in the election of the President of Ukraine and the election of the Ukrainian people's deputies. This is in line with both the President's proposal and the committee's position. Please vote. [[17:47:18]] For 277 The law has been revoked. the commission committee is responsible for preparing the relevant bill. Let's move on to the section "Decision from the Issues under discussion." The draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act “For fish, other aquatic living resources and food products”. [[on quality control and export security]] The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. No objections? We've been looking at this bill recently. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Fish, Other Water Living Resources and Food Products, as well as on quality control and export safety. Please vote. [[17:48:22]] For 309 Dear colleagues! The law is small. There's no warning, maybe we should take it as a whole. You don't? I'm voting on the adoption of this bill as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 3633]] Please vote. [[17:48:54]] For 312 The law is passed. The draft Law on the National Plan for the Construction of AN-70 Military Transport Aircraft and its purchase under State Defense Order is being announced for consideration. We were looking at this bill yesterday. There is a proposal for the committee to accept the document as a basis. There's no objection. I'm voting for the adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the State-wide Program for the Construction of AN-70 Military Transport Aircraft and its purchases under the State Defense Order. [[Registration number 4150]] Please vote. [[17:49:40]] For 386 Copy that. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, there was a proposal, taking into account the urgent need for this document, and reasoning was expressed so that it could be accepted as a whole. No warning? I'm voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the draft law on the state-wide programme for the development of AN-70 military transport aircraft and its procurement under state defence orders. [[Registration number 4150]] Please vote. [[17:50:21]] For 399 The law is passed. A draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2004 is being announced for consideration. For reasons please, Peter Simonenko. Sign up for the rest of your colleagues, dear colleagues, and I can see that it's going to be a long time. Five minutes of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u130	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that you postpone this project today and not vote in favour of the approval of this amount, because the main thing is to bring into line with the requirements of life those figures that were taken into account in this case by the government. Look, if we take you with us today to match the current prices, that's not the answer. So let's say the calculation, the cost of the electricity charge is 6.60, that's almost 40 kilowatts. So let's say you count it then, so let's say it is. For a woman, a winter coat for eight years, a dress for five years, a skirt for one, so to speak, practically for the rest of their lives, and men for five years and so on. It's already a disgrace to us "gods don't live as much" as is suggested today to take the minimum standard of living for Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, the Communist faction will not vote and insist on the calculation of the minimum standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u131	Thank you. This will highlight the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled. Andrew Schlell. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u132	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I want to point out that there's been some kind of discrepancy. And when we discussed the bill, the government, not for a 50 - year - old bracelet, increased the cost of living to a 16 - year - old. Can you imagine? I don't know, 16 bucks that you can buy. The socks are now worth more in Ukraine. I think it's the abuse of common sense, the abuse of everything that can be abused, the poorer levels of the population and the middle levels of the population, and the richest even enter there, because 300 bracelets is the minimum cost of living. I'd like someone who's going to vote in favour to vote for a six-month life for 300 dollars a month. And if he survives these six months. A month's worth of money, then he'll vote honestly. I call. They talked about the calculation method. Of course, it is necessary to change the government in such a case if he makes such decisions. But first of all, we have to reject now, not vote for this bill. And force the government to prepare us a life-given one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u133	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, I would like to devote my time to a purely procedural issue. To date, we are discussing: what is the subsistence minimum for the current year. It's bad, it's good, it's everyone's judgment. But I want to draw your attention. If this law does not take place today, people will receive a number of social benefits under the 2003 standards, which are less than the standards offered today. That's why I have a question. If there were those who thought they could offer better standards, they should have done so. But today, without a vote, we will leave the people to the sums they were paid last year, which will be much less than what is proposed today. So let's do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u135	Stanislaw Nikolayenko, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u136	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The faction of socialists is deeply concerned that, year after year, the Constitution of Ukraine, which requires that the minimum wage, the pension, the student's scholarship is at a level no lower than the standard of living. We've been talking about this year after year, we've been running races that the political power of democracy out there loves our people more, but this standard of the Constitution, year after year, our government, with the support of most people, doesn't. So the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine insists that this constitutional norm act directly so that wages, pensions, and so forth. And that's why we demand that the minimum of living be substantially adjusted and the minimum of living be increased, because today it's under 50 percent, and the minimum wage should be the minimum of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u137	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u138	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk faction of the NDP. According to the Constitution of our State, in particular article 46 of the pension and other payments, social benefits, which are the main source of the existence of our citizens, should ensure a standard of living no lower than the subsistence minimum established by law. In connection with this provision of the bill, in particular article 2 according to which the size of the social State standards for 2004 may be adjusted by the State Budget Act for this year in less than the subsistence minimum, the party does not meet the requirements of the Constitution. The NDP faction also wants to note that the Law on Living Minimum and the very minimum of living should be approved by us, the Supreme Council, before the start of the review of the State Budget of Ukraine. All of this does not allow our faction to vote in favour of this bill because it significantly makes our citizens' lives worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. There was already motive. Motivated. Five minutes out. It's time. I'm showing you, I understand. Well, please, Kirilenko, in 30 seconds. Well, please, Kirilenko, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u140	What can I say? Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", People's Party. Dear colleagues, I say that this is our vote, practically, doesn't mean anything under the present one. First of all, it can't handle any criticism of the figure itself, 358 dollars -- it's not a minimum of living, it's just a figure and no more. Second, the delivery deadlines are long overdue. We should have considered this value together with the minimum wage with the State budget. As we all know, that didn't happen. Thirdly, all the real social benefits that our citizens get, as defined in the 66th article of the State Budget Act, and then there's a level of subsistence allowance that ranges from 85 to 115 dollars in total, three times or more than three times the amount that we can accept today. So it's essentially theoretical on the part of the Ukrainian Parliament, and our vote doesn't make any sense. "Our Ukraine" will not vote for this size, but we insist. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u141	Thank you. Microphone. Dear colleagues, we continue our work for 15 minutes in charge of this bill, the head of the committee, Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u142	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! People's deputies in this room either look like they don't understand what they're talking about or they're being hypocritical. I would like to reiterate that the elimination of the subsistence minimum by special methodology is an objective indicator. I talked about it yesterday. If we don't like the methodology, we need to change the methodology. Today it is an objective indicator and a privileged one, calculated by the Cabinet of Ministers. That's the first one. Second, there is a desire under slogans to make the population of our country a good place today to freeze an underprivileged standard from which all social benefits are calculated. So today we're offering a living minimum, and it's defined by four categories, the lowest increase by 14 bracelets, the maximum by 18. And if we do not adopt this law today, there is a living minimum of 2003, much lower than what is proposed today. Therefore, there is a proposal to approve and move forward in improving the well-being of our people and in increasing social benefits. If we don't do this, everything else is hypocrisy, what our constituents have been told.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u143	I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law on the approval of living minimum for 2004. Registration number 4065. Please vote. [[17:59:42]] For 201 The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations: "The Spiritual Crisis of Society and its Ways to Overcome" is being announced for consideration. Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, please. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that we are talking about culture again at the last minute. But I would very much like to support these hearings, these recommendations that were supported by our committee: both members of the Communist faction, and members of the majority, and members of our Ukraine. Why I'm stressing this right now, because we're going out on the third time and we can't put a dot over the "and" and support what 16 academics were sitting on, 12 national artists of the Soviet Union, doctors, candidates for the sciences that worked this out here. I'd like to fully support this with the two apps that have been made, which are supported by the Tobacco, the Bogus, the Skull and the Omelchen, relatively. There are two of these. Why am I stressing the universal nature of this? Here is the approval of a program for the protection of social morality, national information policy, protection of cultural heritage, there is a problem of 190 years of Chewich holidays, there is the establishment of a law to provide young people with first jobs, there is a nationwide programme for the humanitarian development of Ukraine in an accelerated information regime is a problem of transfer. According to the legislation, the budget for protecting our museums from the Ministry of Culture to hand them over to the Ministry of Internal Affairs so that the state will still protect our museums. There is a problem with supporting the bookstore. You can see the crisis here. There is a problem with the ratification of the Supreme Council of the International Labour Organization Convention on the Protection of Employees’ Requirements in cases of employer insolvency. I'm not going to count all the materials that are here, but believe me, accepting these recommendations would give great impetus to the work of the Ministry of Culture, for the work of the Ministry of Education and for all our humanitarian functions. What's more, it was all about SPD and all kinds of disease, and, of course, the diseases of moral order -- our radio, television and so on. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "The Spiritual Crisis of Society and its Ways to Overcome". [[Registration number 4407]] Please vote. [[18:03:02]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Project rejected. The Draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation "Strategy for the Development of the Radio Information Area of Ukraine" of December 10, 2003 has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Committee of Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u146	You are presented with a draft of the Committee of Tomenka, Artemenko, Bagra, Matviyczuk and unanimously these recommendations are made to various organizations that, following the parliamentary hearings "Strategic for the Development of Television Information Space, the development of forward-looking programmes, the introduction of new digital standards", i.e. there were no objections. The decision is of a recommendational nature. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u147	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearings Recommendation Regulation "Strategy for the Development of the Radio Information Area of Ukraine" of 10 December 2003 for approval as a whole as a decree. [[Registration number 5063]] Please vote. [[18:04:20]] For-189 Project rejected. There's a request from the Bank of Ukraine, and we're going to put everyone in position. Please find Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Review of the issues under discussion. Draft Housing Code. We discussed it, agreed that. On what question, Peter Stepanovich? From the procedure? Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Zibank's microphone, Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u148	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the first morning of this morning's meeting, as I am concerned, I have come to the conclusion that we have all come to the conclusion that we have gone from breaking the Rules once and for all. It's about this document. He voted, he discussed, he didn't find support. Why we're pulling him to the vote again. What is this practice, and where in the daytime is this question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u149	I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues to pick out the words. No one draws anything, and this is the decision of the Conciliation Council. Let's respect ourselves. Please, Valery Pavlovich, please, enough already. The decision of the Conciliation Council was not my personal decision. Please report to Valérie Pavlovich. It was in the draft decision we were considering, dear colleagues. I say again, I'm not doing anything without the Supreme Council. I asked for an extension of 15 minutes. It's all being watched. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u150	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we are already discussing the issue of the Ukrainian Housing Code for the second time. The Ukrainian Housing Code is of great importance to our citizens and the level of responsibility of the executive authorities to provide housing for citizens and the responsibility of the authorities will be increased. The committee was sent. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has requested that the draft Housing Code be put to the vote again. Motivation is given in a letter given to you because we voted after the session of the deputies was virtually nonexistent. We have a new draft regulation, where we propose that we delete the part of the article that deals with eviction for non-payment of civil housing services for six months. I would like to draw attention to paragraph four of the rulings, where we require a bill on the protection of the rights of socially vulnerable groups during the transitional period, the introduction of the rules of the Housing Code and the further application of these rules. This bill should clearly distinguish those who do not want to pay with such opportunities from those who cannot pay for objective reasons. The drafting of such a bill is not a requirement for the State, it's for the Cabinet of Ministers. Because its development requires the participation of both Minpraci and Mingust, Minhvost, and many other factions. The main thing is that we, as national deputies, should take this Housing Code to our home and then, together with representatives of the MPs and factions of the Supreme Council, rework it, reconcile it and make it possible for the final adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u151	A bush, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u152	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, here is your reference to the decision of the Conciliation Council. Well, you didn't break it. You broke it. You broke it. But this does not change the situation. You know, that's how the Conciliation Council can decide to abolish the Constitution, walk with the deputies around the houses, arrest the Speaker. And this is the final decision? Only a decision can be taken to amend the statute of ad-hoc. But that's understandable. The Rules adopted by the Supreme Council cannot be repealed by the Conciliation Council. It's not your fault. Conciliation council, well, what difference does it make? It's a pain in the ass, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u153	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Who are in charge of deciding on the draft Ukrainian Housing Code? Well, the Supreme Council will decide, so let's keep working. Please. [[18:09:31]] For 213 The decision is not taken. All of it. Dear colleagues. Calm down, calm down, we have to think. All of it. The factions, please. I am. I don't know who to look at this question right now, I said so. Bill number 3736 is passed on to the authors and to the committee. I'll put it to a vote. Who's in charge now of reviewing the draft law on Ukrainian diplomatic and official passports? Please. [[6:10:37]] Z-91 That's not the decision to make. The bill was removed. Announcing the draft Order on the appointment of the newly created Dnipropetrov district of the Dnipropetrov region. Vitali Oluiko, please give very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, the request to support the decision of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to assign the newly created Dnipropetrov district of Dnipropetrova to the appointment of the village "Aviatorska" is compared to the category of village of urban importance. The committee voted 12 in favour, 4 in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to appoint the newly established Dnipropetrov district of Dnipropetrov region. Registration number 4511, please vote. [[18:11:48]] For 335 Decision taken. A draft decree on the restoration of the village of Marinopil in the Galician region of Ivano-Frankiv region of the former appointment is being announced. Please, Vitaly Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, please support the decision of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to restore the village of Marinopil in the Galic district of Ivano-Frankiv district to the former name of the village of Mariampil. 12 for, three for, one for, one for, one for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u157	Is there not? Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u158	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter! In the countries of Europe, when mass renamings began, they were calculated. If we no longer know how to count, in Europe, we count the cost of the renaming budget. Indeed, national wisdom says: "The mind won't be added from the change in the main suit, only the cost will be increased." In the end, we can not only make proposals, but we can count on the state to lose its budget? You can count: maps to process, topographs to process, postage stamps to change, the right costs to carry! Is that the answer to the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the draft decree on the restoration of the village of Marinopil in the Galician region of Ivano-Frankiv district of the former appointment. Registration number 4512. [[18:13:45]] For 354 Decision taken. It is announced for consideration in the Draft Order on the name of the village of Dobroville Marin district of Donetsk district. Please, Vitaly Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee’s decision to rename the village of Dobroville in the area of Donetsk to the village of Bogojalylenka by returning the historical name of the village. The referendum was held, the decision of the district and district council was positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u161	I am voting on a draft decree to rename the village of Dobropil in the area of Donetsk. Registration number 4596. Please vote. [[18:14:40]] For 310 Decision Adopted A draft decree on the renaming of the village of Dibrov Tachiv district of Zakarpat district is under review. [[Registration number 4597]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u162	Dear National Deputies! Requesting support for the committee’s decision to rename the village of Dibrowov Tachiv district of Zakarpat district by returning its historical name to Lower Absha. During the meeting of the committee, 10 votes, 4 abstentions, were not against.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-05-m1.u163	I'm betting on a draft decision to rename the village of Debrov in the region of Zacarpathia. [[re-entry number 4597]] Please vote. [[18:15:39]] For 245 Decision taken. Time's up, too bad. What? Ask the hall what I can do. You can see that. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we continue to work at 10 a.m. according to Friday’s schedule. Thank you for your fruitful work.
