ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:42]] Registered -407 A total of 407 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mhitaryan Nvera Mnazakanović. Let's welcome him and wish him well. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages, etc. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the President of Ukraine on the allocation of a car with manual disability control of the Great Homeland War, resident of the village of Milka Prilutsky district of Chernigiv region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:06]] For 131 Request not supported. Ms. KASJANOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not taking action by the government to overcome the extreme environmental and socio-economic situation in the Shirokh region of Dnipropetrov. Vasil TUSHKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the violation of the constitutional and property rights of shareholders of the former agricultural open-ended association “Progress” in the Baltic region of Odessa. Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for assistance to citizens deported in 1944-1946 from Lemkowščina, Nadsenje, Podlesh and Holmščina. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the release of the income of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for 2003. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of the vehicle “Tavria” of the disabled and group of the Great Homeland War, resident of the village of Oussuka in the region of Poltava. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of shareholders' rights during the sanctions of the Open Shareholder Society, Cation. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the destruction of historic sites and monuments of architecture in Kiev. Andria POLITA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of the owners of the joint venture “Cremenčuk Skin and Leather Combination” in the announcement of the company by bankruptcy. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the baseless refusal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to assist the Ukrainian National Deputy to obtain an official translation of the UN document. Anatolya RACHAN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian Law on Resorts. Roman ZVARICH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on the problems of rising electricity prices for enterprises in the Ivano-Frankov region. JOURIA BOYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the renovation of the National Museum in the city of Berezan, Kyiv district. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of reducing the cost of medical care for citizens affected by the Chernobyl AES accident. Alexander TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine on settling the imbalance in the assignment of duties in the State Customs Service, after the entry into force of the new Customs Code. Valery MASHURA to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kiev City Head on the production and social prospects of the labour team of the Kyiv factory “Arsenal”. Oleg NEMIROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, for failure by the Fund of State Property of Ukraine to exercise its authority to present the interests of the “Study Factory of the Name of 61 Communists”. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the failure to implement the nuclear fuel programme in Ukraine. Oleg HUMENUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the need to preserve the state-owned enterprise The Kremenic Department of Supply and Implementation of Gas in connection with the threat of its liquidation and transfer of state property to non-State structures. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of legislation and regulations on civil defence issues in Ukraine by officials of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and on protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the Kirovgrad region. Mr. Yurya ARTEMENKA and Mr. Pavel JEBREWS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cancellation of the registration of the candidate for the Sixth Chamber for the post of Vice-President of the State Educated University of Michael Kotsubinsky, which was conducted in violation of current legislation. Mr Mikhail VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the State-owned company Lvivcarbon. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a tourist-recreational complex in the constituency No.203 of Montenegro. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen with the National Research Institute of Design. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on attempts by the authorities to close the Taras Grigorovič Shevchenka High School in Kirovgrad. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on preparations for the 250th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Kirovgrad. [[SAS, TURCHINS, CHICKS]] Mr. Paul TOWCHANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for illegal suspension in the Dnipropetrov region of the Ukrainian Radio 3 and Radio 2 of the National Radio Company of Ukraine in the middle-wave range. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the company State Producer – commercial firm Ukraineftogazpázpázpáz. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on numerous abuses by the village of Petrovka Shevchenkov region of Kharkiv. [[TIMOSHENKO, KYRILCHUK and others]] Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of implementation of the National Environmental Hygiene Action Plan. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the water supply cutoff in the town of Cosatín Vynicka. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the application of measures to prevent the dissolution of the public property of the open stock company Odeska “Olympic” on a particularly large scale by individual officials of this company, on the verification of the service negligence of the employees of the Odessa Public Prosecutor's Office by drawing the guilty persons to legal responsibility. Mikhail RODIONOVA and Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the “Photo-manage” of the city of Cherkasa in basic enterprises for the development and manufacture of technical training tools. VICTOR BALOGUE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for government action on social protection in relation to sharp and irregular price increases in Ukraine. Anatolia MATVIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the removal of the land for the construction of the historic complex in Kiev. Aleg PANASOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, on granting war veteran status to persons who have forcibly moved to other regions of Ukraine from the territory of Ukraine who have left the territory of other States on the basis of international agreements. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding Cherniewec Airport and the housing of his employees on Carmeluk Street in Chernivka. Mr. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian citizens’ constitutional rights to housing. Anatolya KZLOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the investigation of the crime of death in Kiev of the inhabitants of the city of Pervomayska Mikolai. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the delay in the investigation of a criminal case involving the fraudulent actions of members of a society with limited liability “IVM-Real”. Istwana HYDOSH to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abuse of prices in the market for the supply of compressed gas in the Zakartat region. Sergia BICHKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights and freedoms of the citizen of Pivovarov and the colleagues of the Federation of Solidarity Workers from the law enforcement authorities of the Donetsk Region. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of shareholders of the Sosnowish Agricultural Association of the city of Chargorod of the Vinnitsky region. Andrea POLIETA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the lack of objectivity of the previous road traffic investigation as a result of the involvement of a co-worker of the Ministry of Interior in the Poltavian region. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the biased civil case of a citizen of Sterbina by the judicial and prosecutorial authorities of the district of Suma. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of land and property rights by the management of an agricultural society with limited responsibility for the Novobelian region of Lugansk. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the insufficient investigation of a criminal case violated by the Bukhiv District Police Department on the occasion of the road accident, which took place on April 7, 2003, on the 23rd km of the Shoes - Kiev route. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on human rights violations during the previous investigation and prosecution of a criminal case. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the legality of the privatization of the Salutni Street Hostel in Kiev. Stepan BULBY to the Attorney General of Ukraine for illegal actions by officials of the Poltava City Council and the management of the Poltava Children's Youth Sports School from “Worskla” football. Ms. CHICHANOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on violations of the constitutional rights of citizens, discrimination in the establishment of pensions for military personnel released from the ranks of the USSR Armed Forces until January 1, 1992. Vassila REDOVANI to the Attorney General for the unmotivated closure of the Dniprovsky District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev of the criminal case concerning the former head of the Infobusiness Association. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Attorney General on violations in the process of liquidation of the Open Shareholders Association “Yaroshovska Sugar Plant”. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the shareholders' association of a closed “Kiev union” project and the restoration of shareholders' rights. Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the non-compliance with current legislation by officials and citizens of Ukraine. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of child poisoning in Kiev in May 2004. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of material damage in particular by the Director of the Society with limited liability “Mirgorodska agrariana” to the Open Shareholder Society “The State Saving Bank of Ukraine” to other legal persons and citizens. Katerina FOMENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the closed association AISE Ukraine. Istwana HYDOŠA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to comply with decisions of the judicial authorities of the Hustian City Council concerning violations of the rights of the Hungarian national minority in the city of Hustí Zakartá district. Aleksandra TURCHINOVA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Suma District Administration of Justice, Prosecutor of the Suma District for the unlawful actions of officials of the Department of State Executive Services of the Kovpak District Department of Justice in Suma. VALLERY OF THE LEBEDIEV to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in connection with a series of diplomatic representations, consular institutions of foreign nations. MICILI RUDKOVSKI to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the movement of suburban passenger transport along the route of Chernigów-Gornostivka. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine for the improvement of transport services for residents of the Chernyachiv region of the Žitomir region. Stepan BULBY to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine on the need for the preservation and further operation of the Military Double Orders of the Red Flag of the Institute of Missile Forces and the artillery of Suma State University. Valentina Seminyuk to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine regarding the incomplete investigation of the situation in connection with the situation that has arisen around the breeding of agricultural open stock companies, the “Zoldaniskie” Tribal Centre of the Cherkas Region. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija Samoplavski to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the insufficient provision of quality textbooks for students of the general educational institutions of the region of Berezniv, Kostopil and Sarnen. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the attempt to eliminate Feodosian Technical School No.14. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the basis of an unprecedented license for a limited liability company, Prompodservis, of the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ Department for Combating the Illicit Traffic of Drugs. Jury CARMAZIN to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Coordinating Committee for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine on the use of measures to threaten national security of Ukraine as a result of unlawful actions by officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine as a result of restrictions on the economic activity of the company “Dionis”, a violation of the constitutional right to free entrepreneurial activity with the aim of transferring leased premises with the right to ransom to interested commercial entities. Mr. Vladimir SKOMAROVSKI to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the attempt to seize the car of the Ukrainian national deputy by persons in the form of State Auto Inspectors on the Kiltz Road in Kiev. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for violations of legislation and abuse of the internal affairs of the Zacarpathian region in the issue of foreign passports to citizens. [[BOLOGA, YVANCHO, MIHOVI]] Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on grounds of objectivity of the Odessa Courts. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI TO THE HEAD OF THE U.S. C. ON THE USE OF BUDGETARY EXPENDITURES IN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ONE GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES Igor CHELOMBITZA to the Head of the Head of the Central Audit and Audit Authority for the misuse of the State Budget funds of Ukraine as head of the Taleniv Regional Government Administration of the Cherkas region. Anatolysa MOROSA to the Head of the National Committee on Housing and Utilities concerning the verification of the Yakimów Rental and Production Association of Housing and Utilities for the formation of tariffs for consumer-provided utility services. Vasila ADRADES to the Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the purpose of clarifying the procedures for applying the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, regarding benefits for war veterans for the extra-priced capital repair of their own homes. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on violations of articles 3, 24, 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine under distribution, on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects and measures to prevent accidents and technological disasters in housing and other emergency municipal property in 2004. The questions that have come have been answered. Let's move on to the statements of authorized factions with applications, information, queries. Shershun Mikola has the word from the faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Prepare Anisimov. Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u2	Mikola Shershun, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MP. The Ukrainian Parliamentary faction, then Ukraine’s Agrarian Party, developed and introduced a draft bill for compensation for the expenses incurred by farmers for the construction of the village’s social buildings under number 5389. The bill proposes a step-by-step compensation for the costs incurred by farmers in 1999 for the construction of socio-economic and cultural objects in rural areas. This project is aimed at implementing article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Priority of Social Development of the Village and the Agro-industry Complex in the People's Farms, the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of legislation on the promotion of agro-industry production and the priority of rural social development in Ukraine in 2004 and the formation of effective mechanisms for their development in the future. To our firm conviction, this will greatly improve the financial situation of the owners, reduce the amount of unfinished construction in the countryside, and much and much of it, offset the debt owed to the construction organizations, and preserve the main real investor in the construction of social infrastructure in the countryside. Given the relevance of Bill No. 5389, you would be asked, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to assign to the Council's professional committees his immediate consideration and inclusion in the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council next plenary week. We're counting on a lot of support. And thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u3	Anisimi from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, please be invited to the rostrum. Get ready for Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u4	Anisimov, 30 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. In my statement, I would like to draw your attention to the events that are taking place in the city of Dneprožinsk. The city head of Sweden, Vasili Yakovlevich, is apparently prevented from sleeping in the laurels of events that have not recently taken place in Mukachevo. The point is that the Communist Party of Ukraine City Organization has decided, on very legitimate grounds, to revoke the authority of the city head of Sweden. In response, some representatives of the city’s executive branch received banditry. Mr. Schwetz is suspected of a large number of illegal acts that are incompatible with the post of the city head. This is theft in huge amounts of budget, corruption and failure to perform their duties. Our attempt to remove Sweden from power in a democratic way has led to frank banditry. There have been repeated attacks on the Agitpost, which operates in the central square of the town of Dneprogerginska. Once again, our party's bitter housing has been destroyed, and threats have been made to our activists. One of my assistants was beaten. Criminal cases for economic crimes committed against some members of the Dneprodžinski Horizpolkom may already need to be added to criminal cases for incitement to attack an assistant of the People's Deputy and the campaigning activists. An analysis of Sweden's activities in the post of city head, Dneprodjøržinska, shows that it had to be recalled when he was elected as a man of Lazarenko. Since then, he has changed the political paint several times, but not the main thing, but that Mr. Schwetz has been taking his place illegally because he has even lost his own elections with a fever and only by falsifying documents and falsifying elections has made him feel in a city head chair. Therefore, we are determined to finish what we have begun. I request that you consider your request to the Attorney-General's Office and finally help to bring order to Dneprožinsk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u5	Vitaly Majko, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u6	President of Ukraine Leonid Danilovich Kuchmi. Supreme Leonide Danilovich, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, signed Order No. 93D of June 3, 2004 on the release from office of Director-General of the State Enterprise, Arsenal, Leznev Vasil Fedorovich, until the end of the term of contract. It's so urgent in a few days before the 240th anniversary of the establishment of a man's liberation plant, which worked for 40 years, it's surprising because there's no debt in the company to the state or to the workers. The plant’s administration, along with its team, has accumulated five million dollars in bank accounts for the development of new high - tech products. In today’s conditions, this type of farming testifies to the high level of professionalism and the responsibility of the business manager. What reasons, then, did they make Leznev Vasil Fedorovich feel that way? The main thing is its integrity, to defend the interests of the enterprise community, and to protect the enterprise is very difficult, because the Arsenal plant is located in the center of Kiev, its location is very attractive to businesses, both from power and from commercial structures, who are trying to own the territory of the enterprise as a highly efficient product. Newspaper reports about the possibility of the construction of the factory’s territory by tourist and hotel complexes are repeated. The destruction of a powerful industrial complex, which has been built for hundreds of years, is a national acquisition that, neither for large money nor for decades, is a national crime, and the removal of a leader is one step towards opening the way to this crime. In order not to allow these purposes to be achieved, we ask that you, Your Honourable Leonid Danilovich, cancel the order of the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine to release Lejnev Vasil Fedorovich from his duties as Director General of the State Department of Arsenal. At the commission of the faction of the People's Democratic Party and industrialists and entrepreneurs, at the commission of the Committee of Industrial Policy and many manufacturers, scientists, many deputies, I urge you to support this appeal. And I warn all the deputies: dear friends, today's offensive to all the industries in the city center is the Radar factory, this is the Quantum plant and other factories. We need to save them. I am asking you to support this appeal and to stand firm for our industry. Here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u7	Yes, thank you. Mikola Petrovich Noshenko from the Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u8	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, electoral district 160, Deaf, Sumska district, faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine". A statement. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters who are listening to us today! Ukraine’s programme to create a socially oriented market economy should serve to create a civilised labour market on the basis of social partnership. However, adequate national needs, an effective system for regulating social and labour relations in Ukraine, unfortunately, are not yet available. This is reflected in the programming documents of the Labour Ukraine party, which were adopted by the May Day Summit. The vast majority of employees feel that their interests are openly ignored, that they feel deceived, and that they are wronged. Personally, this is evident in rural areas under the monopoly of one legal person, as is evident in those who have been employed by a private entrepreneur. What about the thousands of our citizens who work at all without any contract! Nor do the existing socio-working relationships reflect the fact that there is a low share of wages from the cost of production, which even happens in economically successful production, and the full exclusion of workers from decision-making. I myself participated in a conversation in the district when the farm’s 26 - day winter trips accounted for as much as 30 bracelets, and they were not paid. The new owners of decommissioned enterprises are merely saying that there is a need for radical reform of socio-working relationships built on new principles, but little is done. These problems are also compounded by the imperfections of the legal framework. The Social Partnership Bill, which was introduced in 1996, was not adopted, although three parties insisted: employers, trade unions, government. The state, after losing ownership and part of its management functions, has moved away from pursuing an effective, targeted labour reform policy. What concrete steps should be taken at the level of government first? The MP considers it necessary, in the first place, to bring legislation on social labour relations into line with new realities. Back to tackling social partnership issues. As soon as possible to adopt the new Labour Code, which is so long under way. Urgently implement the hourly payment of the work that we talk so much about even in this sessional room. These will be the first steps, the real steps to ensure the rights of hired workers, their participation in the production management process, including control over the redistribution of profits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u9	Thank you. The word is the national deputy of the Shurma, the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] The storm. Please. Get ready for Turkey. Dear colleagues, listen carefully to the announcement because you are wasting precious time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u10	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine for the third time addresses the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Rules of Procedure with the request to eventually order the activities of the so-called All-Ukrainian Open Deputies Association "Economic Ukraine". [[united]] This is a declared unification, despite the clear conclusion of the Rules of the Committee on Unlawfulness, despite the fact that its actions are clearly qualified as violations of the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Law on Civil Associations, which has been declared by the chairman of the plenary, continues to unpunished the honour of the legislative body of Ukraine as a whole of many national deputies of Ukraine, all without exception from the political powers of the state. It continues to use illegal props from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the messages made by this organization, addressed to the deputies of all levels, the leaders, the commanders of the Armed Forces, the priests, are astounded by their cynicism and insolence; no one else is addressed to the Ukrainians as God - chosen savior of Ukraine, Taranenko. He's the co-conspirator of this organization. All of this would be funny if it weren't so sad. If earlier Taranenko, under the name of the Supreme Council, gave instructions to the heads of the district, district, rural, village councils on what they should do in the direction of the creation of the faction of "Economic Ukraine", now the instructions are addressed to the leaders of the Church of Ukraine, who should, indeed, tell the parishioners about the divine will - Taranenko should become President of Ukraine. And another assignment. And more materially to help him collect 500,000 dollars of pledges in Ukraine. And all of this abrasion is printed on forms with props from the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being distributed throughout all the cities and villages of Ukraine. Does such action add authority to the Supreme Council? I'm sure you don't. Then we do not understand at all what prevents Parliament's leadership from finally paying attention to our remarks." In her last statement, the faction asked for the content of the regulatory committee to be brought to the councils of all levels. We've requested a protocol commission to the newspaper Voice of Ukraine to publish the above-mentioned conclusion, but nothing has been done so far. And no doubt in the person of the self - proclaimed MPs, we have faced a cynical attempt by the political forces to use dirty technologies to achieve political dividends. The faction believes that leaving this attempt out of the public attention of the Supreme Council has no right. The findings of the Regulatory Committee contain clear and convincing assessments of the incident and the introduction of this information to all parts of the representative government of Ukraine and to the general public today are simply necessary. The faction conveys this statement and additions to the chairman and we look forward to concrete, as always, steps in upholding the honour and dignity of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u11	The word has been given by the Turkish National Deputy, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! The political opposition that began long before the official start of the electoral campaign crossed any line of common sense and morals. Political persecution of members of the "Centre", "Our Ukraine" group and other parliamentarians who have an independent position, a pending absurd case and provocation against Yulia Timoshenko, unprecedented forgeries in the course of elections to local self-government authorities, repression against opposition at the local level, open-minded population information terrorism testify to the willingness of power to any means of self-preservation. A total clearing of the information space began. After the broadcast of live radio stations, an attempt continues to destroy "The Village News", "The Ukrainian Truth", "The Young Ukraine", "Evening News" and other publications that have an alternative to the power of view. Today, the authorities have chosen the harshest course of their own self - preservation — the path of physical destruction of opponents, punitive action, and bloody adventures. Hence, it wants to destroy primarily those who are willing not to allow a similar scenario to take place in Ukraine. Yet, understanding the primacy of its own chances of winning, the authorities have seen fat gulp on outright looting and embezzlement of people’s wealth. The last symptom of this with the permission to say economic policy was the open racketeering occupation of the presidential family of the flagman of the country's metallurgy, the Creebrisstals. Given the critical situation that has taken place in Ukraine today in all areas of political and socio-economic life, we, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, demand that any provocation and repression on the part of the opposition politicians and independent political forces, entrepreneurs and the media cease immediately. To stop the looting of the last national wealth that is being privatized. In addition, we today call on all our colleagues in the Parliamentary Corps to refrain from participating in political debates, not to support openly repressive power policies, not to vote in favour of decisions that undermine the national economy. I address all those who today are willing to become the doer of the will of Kuchma, Medvedchuk, and so forth. Think about your actions. Stop creating an atmosphere of violence and lawlessness in the country. The criminal regime has challenged democracy, the law, the Constitution. To this challenge, we must be united by all democratic forces. Let's unite and win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u13	The word has a national MP, Nikolaynko, a faction of socialists, to prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u14	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Nikolayenko Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you, the press today, to the citizens of Ukraine on yesterday's occasion. There was a momentous event yesterday. The Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of the law on repayment of debts under article 57 of our teachers and adopted it in the first reading. It is stated that in the second reading, the law will be finally passed no later than 22.06, or just one week later. I don't know why I'm talking about this law. Because this legislative act establishes, restores justice in the field of education, and repays debt to educators in case of adoption over the past three years, starting in 1997. Many deputies asked me what we voted for. I'm reminding you, the size of this debt is about 4.1 billion dollars. By the way, I'm going to say that education costs about 15 billion dollars a year. We hear, unfortunately, from a government that has no funds, it's illegal to pay off debts, take money, and so forth. The Socialist faction offers solutions to these problems, by restoring state control over state monopolies, electricity, communication, alcohol, tobacco, vodka, and so forth. But you can't give out the crossword puzzles and so on, or we'll never get the budget filled and we won't solve any problems. In its draft law, the socialist party of Ukraine proposes to allocate 200 million dollars of gold money to repay debts. They say you can't. And if you can, you can't give people what you've earned. Why, then, does Nazbank say that he is willing to repay almost one billion dollars in debt to the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, on a time-by-time basis? There you can. And your citizen, your teacher, can't. Ukraine’s Socialist Party demands government, insists on repayment of debts. We made a deal with the education profession yesterday. But we are further insisting that in the following year, the 2005 budget will provide for the cost of rural intelligence services, doctors, teachers, specialists, and so on. So that the minimum wage of a teacher and of all intelligence is not lower than the minimum wage. In order to supplement our internships, we have included five years of training in peduas, the introduction of increasing retirement rates for rural intelligence, and for rural workers in general, including teachers. Otherwise there'll never be more than 140-150 dollars. Similarly, workers in vocational education. Restoring the diet of children and so forth. I urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u15	Thank you. The word is from the National Deputy Bondarenko, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine". Sobolev will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u16	Gregory Bondarenko, 92 constituency, faction of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm not surprised, not only am I not surprised, but all of us, if one day we don't find a tree under the window of the Supreme Council, we're going to have a building crane and a fence. I'm saying this because the Mariana Park is already under our noses. In the Ministry of Health, the slopes were demolished and the walls were hurriedly chased. The characteristic sign is the missing traditional shield of what's going to be here and who's building. And there's a house on the Vineyard, four of them, they're probably gonna take it down. The architects deny it, but there's a strong argument -- he's building the Attorney General's Office. In such cases, a theory was developed that the capital needed a tight construction. In the central part of Kiev there is not long ago architectural barbarism. They do the same all over Ukraine in every more or less attractive city. The cause of urban nonsense is corruption. City officials are making money on this and are becoming more and more greedy and insolent. A typical example in the same capital, one step away from Chrystec, in Pushkinsky. The mysterious company Dieb first bought a house in 37th, bought a quarterly committee at a symbolic price of 109 grand. That's right. One - room apartment is more expensive in this area. In time, a beautiful two - story kindergarten was privatized as an emergency in the neighborhood. And here are these two buildings, four years old, standing with the windows down. Admirers are prevented from continuing their black business -- to demolish half the historic neighborhood along with architectural monuments, and to bring in a gourmet giant with all kinds of entertainment, parking, and so forth. Indignant people wrote to the mayor, to the president, 233 signatures, addressed the city's prosecutor, took care of Kyivrada, and stopped barbarism and worked together. And yet clearly, the project has been rejected by many organizations, and complex expertise has made 179 observations, half of which are virtually impossible to implement. The corrupt conveyor is catastrophically destroying the historic landscape of our cities. The high - profile building and other officials are very careful to convince us that the law is unnecessary here. These issues, I said, have been settled. The faction of "Ukraine" suggests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u17	Thank you, Gregory Ivanovich. The word is from the National Deputy Sobolev, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u18	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka's electoral block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I like it very much when it comes to the question of "admission" of kindergartens, which is also very important, separate farms. And at this point, right under the heads of state, according to the decisions of the State Property Fund, they sell the largest, best, most attractive objects in Ukraine, such as Crevystall, prepared for sale by Skretelek and other priceless objects. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" requires that today, when we consider the issue of the first order of the day, namely the hidden budget, which the government has already confirmed, because literally in the last two days, it turns out that we also have two billion dollars to raise wages, and half a billion dollars to raise pensions, and 280 million to raise scholarships. Only the government once again refuses to acknowledge that in this year's budget almost 10 billion dollars are actually unaccounted for and are not passed through the report of the Supreme Council. That's why the issue that arose the entire last week and the previous month, namely, literally, the criminal way in which the competition was conducted and the most attractive object in Ukraine of Ukrainian Metallurgy "Cruvoristal" was sold, this is a waste of time to confirm that the public today enjoys, not the interests of the people, but the interests of a group of oligarchs whose task is to purchase the most attractive, interesting objects for the presidential elections. I am not talking about the price of this object right now. What I'm most interested in right now is that if only at the last moment in the contest are the rights of the labour force, where instead of the unfortunate thousands of bracelets that throw as wages today to the metallurgyers, there are virtually no other conditions for protecting the rights of the labour force, when, in fact, social infrastructure even under the conditions of privatization remains suspended. I think those who went to this reception don't understand the key: yes, the global market for metal production is unique today, and what happens tomorrow, when there's another collapse, who's going to be trying to reflect the costs tomorrow, like this, for example, with the Contingency Aluminum Combine, where they've been thinking of deducting the costs in a year, and now for the fourth year, they can't even return the key costs and invest in this project. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" insists that a report by the head of the State Property Fund be heard here, and we have heard this report not only about objects such as "Cruvoristal" but also about objects that are already being prepared for sale this year, such as "The Skretelek" and all the best objects in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we have completed statements commissioned by factions with applications, reports, queries and information. Let's get to work on Wednesday's schedule. First of all, as we agreed, we have a draft of the Law on Urgent Measures for the Allocation of Hidden Incomes of the State Budget. You know, this is a question we've discussed on the Conciliation Council not once, and we agreed to invite the Supreme Council to consider it on Wednesday first in order to keep us working. But in order to do that, we need to put this issue in the agenda. That's why I'm asking your attention, dear colleagues. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukraine State Budget 2004 Act on Urgent Measures for the Allocation of Hidden Income. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:49:41]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I mean, dear colleagues, tomorrow we'll be looking at budget issues. Now you're going to be given these materials. "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communist factions - 56, SDPU - 0, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 0, "The Hard Ukraine" - 0, "The People's Agrarian" - 0, "The People's Agrarian" - 20, "Timoshenko Block" - 19, "The Union" - 0, "The Union" - 0, "The Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, "The Centre" - 11, "The Postfaction" - 7. Dear colleagues. Well, calm down! Tomorrow we will consider how much time it takes, the budget issue. Now, one minute! “In accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council, please declare a recess.” Our Ukraine faction, BUT. Then maybe you'll come out and we'll take a break. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For several months in a row, we've been raising the subject that the government, in its budget formation, has cut down the State Budget's revenue base. It's about things that are just amazing. Today, however, there is no discussion of whether or not it is too low. Take the information the government gave you in preparation for the Budget Resolution. He calculated this year’s budget from a gross domestic product. 283.5 billion dollars. Take the government's estimate of gross domestic product. 317.5 billion dollars! These are government figures. Lowering the income base of the budget is 34 billion dollars. This means losing the income of the budget of 10 billion dollars. This means that at least 5 billion dollars are hidden in the pension fund. In this room, most deputies have raised issues that we have in the social sphere. Yesterday we discussed the issue of education, and we made the right decision to introduce the 57th article of the Education Act. Many of you know about pension problems: pension discrimination; low pensions; discrimination against women compared to men; discrimination against citizens who retired in the 1990s compared to those who retired today. I'm saying that the income hidden in the budget is enough to raise the minimum wage now, raise the inter-employment salary of budget workers and pay rate by 25 percent, 30 percent. Retirement rates can be raised by 30 percent and the acute contradictions in pension insurance can be eliminated. Dear friends! I might be wrong, but I'm talking about a scary figure of 34 billion dollars. The legislature has no right to remain silent about this situation. The question of whether you vote or not is the question of morality, our view of the problems that exist in society. But the faction of "Our Ukraine" says, "Don't close your eyes on a problem that's already surfaced." It's about scary numbers. And we ask you to go back to the vote and consider this bill. Your will is to vote for this law or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Give me three minutes, please. One moment, calm down, please. Tomorrow we'll be discussing questions. There's a budget issue tomorrow, there's an increase of 7.5 billion. Please, three minutes. Calm down, three minutes, let's exchange thoughts, please. I say again, sit down, please. Please sign up. Please sit down, don't stop. That board, please. Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u22	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The faction "Our Ukraine" strongly insists on this issue, we see what is happening now in Ukrainian society. So called privatization of the Creebrisstals, the embezzlement of extremely profitable enterprises that are now owned by the state, the feeding of tens of billions of dollars by those or other oligarchic clans, and then the directing of this money to the presidential electoral campaign of a dominant candidate. We have no moral right to close our eyes on all of this. We have to give a proper assessment of the government's actions, as it has accepted this budget as being current, from which everyone is groaning, and still wants to manage it manually. The faction "Our Ukraine" strongly insists on addressing this issue in the sessional room, putting it in the order of the day and looking at it in fact. Otherwise, we will resort to harsh measures of disobedience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u23	Please, Konovaluk, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! We really share the desire of every national MP to do the most in order to fill the State budget. This is understood by the government. A joint Working Group was set up to make changes to the State Budget. Almost today a bill has been introduced on changes to the State Budget, which foresees a really substantial increase in income. I believe that we will be able to discuss carefully tomorrow and make the most informed, effective decision. So I think it is just an attempt to stop considering other issues and to impose my political opinion and position on individual factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u25	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, in the opinion of the socialists, if we look at this issue today, I don't see anything wrong with it. The point is, for us, it'll be clearer tomorrow to deal with the budget changes. We will see clearly whether everything is taken into account or not, the authors' mistakes may be today's bill, the mistakes of the authors of the ancient bill. So it would be such a preparatory work to consider changes to the budget tomorrow. Therefore, consideration would be needed. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to ask everyone that if we're going to look at the budget changes tomorrow, we're going to have to deal with the budget procedure. The point is, we know how we took the budget in general when the procedure wasn't working out and now we have the consequences -- we reap what we sowed. And the third. I would like to tell those factions who did not vote in favour of political reform, if they voted in favour of political reform, the government would not dare to play with Parliament like that, but would count with its opinion and then there would be no confusion or confusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. So let's think about it this way. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, well, you don't have to shout, so wait. I'm going to propose once again, my dear fellows, let's do it this way, tomorrow, when we're going to consider the budget issue and then we're going to discuss it. Well, let's look at this and we'll look at this in parallel. What? No, if they vote. And that's how you're going to act. Make a statement. Well, I'll put it to the vote again, just sit down, please. Tomorrow, if it's not supported, let's keep working. Tomorrow we will discuss the matter and discuss it. I'm asking you, some are blocking for one reason, you're blocking for another, but let the Supreme Council work. Well, please. Well, so it's seven and a half already, so it's going to be three plus, it's going to be ten. Well, sit down, I'll put you to a vote, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u28	Sit down, I don't have my own faction, I have all my factions. Calm down. I say again, I have all my factions. Calm down. Well, why Assadchev? Well, sit down, I beg you, come on, sit down, I'll put you to the vote. Well, tomorrow will be the subject of consideration, it will discuss the matter, well, what are you? I'm telling you again. Sit down, I'll put you to the vote again, please. Sit down, please. Asadchev from procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said here that the Supreme Council would never accept the budget like it did. So I want you to explain to us how we're going to be looking at a 7.5 billion change budget tomorrow, if no one has even seen it in the hands of this project. When, then, did you study it? Will it be stretched as the budget was stretched? I'd like you to be consistent, too, and keep your word. First we have to get this project, study it, and then look at it. It's not like they're gonna vote tomorrow. We know they're trying to steal 7.5 billion of them again. So I want you to explain this procedure to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council will consider in the same way as the Committee on Budgets will determine and propose. If the Budget Committee suggests that we do not discuss the matter, it is obvious that we will listen to the position of the Budget Committee. Now the materials are multiplying and they're going to be distributed to you. Adam Ivanovich, show me these materials. Here's the document, it's going to be given to you. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Once again, I'm putting forward a proposal that urges the faction "Our Ukraine" to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Urgent Measures for the Allocation of the State Budget for Ukraine for 2004. Registration number 5334. Be sure to vote, please. [[11:01:19]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 99, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 4, SPO - 20, Timoshenko Block - 19, "The Union" - 0, NDP, Industrial and Business Party -0, "Centre" - 12, "The Faction - 7. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Dear colleagues, calm down. I am voting on another proposal to consider this project tomorrow, together with consideration of the issue of amending the budget. What's the point? I've done everything required. Let's keep working. [[11:02:31]] For 211 Dear colleagues, let's see if tomorrow we're going to consider this issue in some way, let's just give it a chance to work. Please! Let's see tomorrow! Let's put it to a vote tomorrow and take a look. Well, let's see, I guarantee you. Dear colleagues, calm down! Calm down, please. Tomorrow I propose that, together with the budget's consideration, this issue be considered. No objections? So we're looking. All right, sit down, we'll look into it. Calm down! It's being announced. We're looking at everything! Have a seat. A draft regulation on enforcement of legislation on the development of scientific and technological potential and innovation activities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Igor Raphailovich, please. Please, let's work, we've wasted a lot of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The Supreme Council is considering the approval of the Supreme Council's Supreme Council regulation by the 8th of June Government on the issue of compliance with legislation on the development of scientific and technological potential and on the innovative activities of Ukraine. Relevant reports have been made, and relevant material has been given to you. Two proposals were made to the committee and to the Provisional Special Committee of the Future, which were authorized to conduct the matter, one from Deputy Kruczkov and the other from Deputy Abramenko. The deputy Kruczkov has asked to make, especially to allocate scientific developments in the defence area, but this does not correspond to the general context, although we agree that scientific developments in the defence area are important developments and should. But you can't separate them, maybe you shouldn't. Deputy Avramenko made several suggestions. One of them is that non-budgetary state scientific institutions that have to pay 50 percent of their pension payments in order to make these payments relate to their production costs rather than to their income. The Commission considers that this observation is correct and can be made to a decision. In addition, Deputy Avramenko suggests further consideration of the financing of scientific work related to mine safety. This question is common, and it refers to government problems. In addition, it is suggested that taxes be taken away from household chores performed by various scientific institutions. In general, each scientific institution is a budgetary institution, has its own work plan, and the household work performed by a scientific institution should be taxed. There are no other observations. So those two, one point we're making to the Supreme Council's draft decree, the other points, we think they might not be introduced. In this regard, I appeal to you to approve the decision to include this single remark.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, you know that we held parliamentary hearings on this subject, we had a heated debate. The draft of the decree has been prepared, and it's agreed upon. All of the suggestions made are included. So we have every reason to put it to a vote. Letters, honourable colleagues, suggestions, not lips. Put to the vote the approval of the entire draft Legislation on the Development of Scientific and Technological Potential and Innovation in Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:07:54]] For-300 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that the commission for the future has worked very hard to make this decision and to make appropriate arrangements for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u34	I support this proposal, let's do it. Supplement only in writing. Dear colleagues, calm down! That's what I'm telling you. Letter, letter, please. A draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of pricing and tariff formation in the residential sector is being announced. We have three projects here: from the committee and two alternatives. I ask Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjochin to express the position of the committee. And who is the Economic Policy Committee? Let's go then, fellow officers, I'm asking for alternative projects: Simonenko, Matthew. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, project 5614. And prepare Semenyuk. It's 5614-1. And 5614-2 to prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, introduced by the leader of our faction, Peter Mikolaiovich, and I have a draft ruling that proposes the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in conducting a pricing policy in the housing and utility sphere to be considered unsatisfactory. And that's why. After hearing the government's information on this issue, we have found that its activity in this area is in grave violation of the rights of our citizens, who are enshrined in Ukrainian legislation. Despite the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, housing and utility payments now amounted to more than 40 percent of the average living minimum. At the same time, the current subsidy policy does not solve these problems, although the amount of subsidies that have been paid for housing and utility costs has reached almost 8 billion dollars. The chronic lack of funds has led to accelerated aging of both housing funds and utilities, accidents in urban life - sustaining systems, and their exploitation. Thus, the policies of housing prices and tariffs that we have today have become an insurmountable burden for the majority of the population of Ukraine. Especially for pensioners, disabled people, many children and low-income families, single mothers. That is why Peter Mikolaiovich and I recommend that this draft decree be given to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First, by the end of this year, to develop normative documents on the regulation of electricity costs for the technological needs of utility enterprises, to provide a separate line of costs for the next year for the maintenance of the housing fund, water supply and water supply systems, to introduce a moratorium on the raising of prices and tariffs for residential services, transport services and linkages to the increase in minimum wage and pensions to the minimum of living minimum, and to make proposals for changes to article 3 of the Law on the restructuring of housing debt, housing and utility services. The project is also included.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u36	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna on draft Decree 5614-2. Your argument, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u37	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. For your consideration, colleagues, there is a draft Cabinet of Ministers regulation on the state of pricing and tariffs for residential services by number, of course, noted as being given. We're giving Alexander Alexander Moroz this draft ruling, based on the fact that the Socialist Party was the initiator when approved as Prime Minister of Kinach, as a condition for voting for him in the garden, that we will create an intergovernmental parliamentary commission to figure out eventually what the housing and utility tariffs are. And this committee, working together, found out the following. That 85 percent of the tariff on residential services is electricity. Even the Cabinet of Ministers was virtually impossible to figure out the value of the electricity tariff. The whole point of what? To ensure that, so-called, the NCR commission, which was created by the President, works under the heading "The Secret," the publication is not subject to any of their documents, and even the information of the Cabinet of Ministers itself was not known, nor were the deputies of the Supreme Council, the members of the commission, nor even the government itself. What does that say? That there's no politics in the residential sector today. Everything goes to the proper patronage of the President and, so-called, the commission she created. Today, the government has proved powerless and has no one in this regard. So our information, which was heard, said that there was no housing policy in the government. It is also absent from local authorities. They can only say that there are such prices. The following can be said today. After the privatisation of energy-generating companies, no one knows the electricity tariff, because all of this is regulated by the relevant commission. The other one. No matter what our adoption, Parliament, and the power to bring about any basic order, we passed the Law on the Restructuring of Housing Services Debt. Today housing-communal cooperatives, the unification of co-owners of citizens who are created in accordance with current legislation, do not fall under this law at all. So our proposal in the draft decree to include a mandatory debt restructuring for residential services. Houses, residential cooperatives, and associations of fellow citizens This proposal is based on the fact that I am today the Head of roommates in Kiev and this is their proposal, people are demanding it. We also ask the question of regulating the pay for cold water, for warm water. Because only 40 percent, 40 degrees Fahrenheit [40 ° C], is considered warm water. And we need to make some changes to the Cabinet Order, and we need to make all of that clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three draft decrees. The first draft of the ruling proposed by the Committee on Economic Policy. Now we're going to vote for the basis, and then we're going to define ourselves, because there are three projects. Rudzkowski, please, for the reasons of the vote
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u39	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if the committee did not report how we could vote. Let someone, at least formally report it, first if we put it to the vote. And secondly, there are, of course, three decrees. There is a great danger that none of them will be accepted. But we must do so, for the situation is very critical on the spot. In particular, local measures break down, rising by 30 percent, by 50 percent, the price of utilities, not paying attention to any regulators, buys new foreign products at the expense of high tariffs. We have such vivid examples in the city of Chernigov. There's no feedback. We must increase the role of the government and the responsibility of the government for utilities. And this is the responsibility of the government directly for what is happening in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, since we are making decisions on the issues discussed, we have three draft decisions. First project proposed by the committee. The main difference in the evaluation of the work in this field of the Cabinet of Ministers is insufficient and insufficient. The first project submitted by the committee is proposed to be considered insufficient. So I'm putting this project to a vote according to the registration, this is 5614, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere. I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis. Please vote. [[11:18:18]] For-173 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on draft decree 5614-1, authors of national deputies Simonenko, Matthews, for adoption as a basis. [[11:18:45.]] For 181 More. Yes, please note, I'm putting to the vote draft decree number 5614-2, the authors of Semenyuk, the National Deputies of Semenyuk, Frost. Please vote. I'll lay the groundwork. [[11:19:16]] For-195 Maybe let's get the committees to work on it. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich, a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. It's not political, it's socio-economic. And all of these projects have some constructions that need to be taken into account. For much more concrete projects prepared by Deputy Simonenko and Deputy Semenyuk and others who signed with them. But the committee's project can also be considered. And I think we've used this principle more than once. That project, which gained more votes in the previous vote, is taken as a basis, i.e. it is once again put to the vote on the basis, and then it takes into account all the positions that are in the other projects. I'd like most of you to support me. In the end, the final vote is a political assessment, but something has to be done, because in this area, you're all convinced of it, sorry for the word, it's a terrible mess. We need to set up order, we need to set some rules, we need to set up community service. It's just an outrage that's happening in Ukraine today. Support the project as a base, and then we'll remove what's there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, so more votes during the vote got the last draft -- that's 5614. One hundred and ninety - five votes. I'm going to put this project on the ground again. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the basis of a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the state and formation of prices and tariffs for housing and utilities. Registration number 5614-2. Please vote. [[11:21:25]] For 202 The decision is not taken. I'm asking the committee. Now. Matthew, please. Just a minute. Not all at once, dear fellows, that you are. Please, Matthew, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u43	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think we could go this way: to give the Economic Policy Committee the task of working on a single project and bringing it to the Supreme Council, all the right points, taking into account the three draft regulations that are reflected in these three draft regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I think let's put it this way: we'll have a committee on Tuesday, with the participation of the authors of alternative drafts, to work on them, taking into account the situation in the housing and utility sphere. If we think it's exemplary, let's say it's exemplary. If it's unsatisfactory, let's say that it's unsatisfactory, and the main thing is that we're going to offer approaches. which would be effective today and would improve people's social well-being. Let's get out of this. Is there no objection? So on Tuesday, then, a coordinated project, please submit a committee, a committee for consideration by the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the short-circuited issues. Yesterday we started a review of a package of tax bills. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is now being announced for consideration. Reporter, Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, your Honourable Chairman! The bill that we are considering today is one of the most important parts of Bill 4001, which was supported by the Supreme Council on February 5, 2004. It is proposed to increase the annual volume of transactions in the supply of goods for which a business entity must be registered. It's proposed to put at 300,000. the level of the bracelet at its current level is 61.2, which is almost five times higher. Taxation of tourist services is regulated. In our view, this is an important step in the development of tourism in Ukraine. These standards were in line with the Tourism, Minfin, and DPA Committee. Finally, the issue of the release of supply operations, including pharmacy facilities registered and admitted to medical treatments and medical devices in Ukraine, has been resolved. The most radical changes are proposed for the administration of this tax. The verification functions for the validity of the claims for compensation remain with the DPA, the budget compensation relies on the State on the claimant’s applications. The bill proposes that disputes be settled before the court about the infringements found by determining the subject matter of taxation or on the irregularity of VAT compensation. Norms of paragraph 7.7. Article 7 applies from the results of the activities reflected in the first tax declaration given after the act has become effective. The order and terms of compensation for the negative value reflected in the tax declarations are carried out according to the law in force at the time of the application of such a declaration. The main provisions of this standard are the establishment of a two - month repayment term for both domestic and export transactions, a negative tax balance that is compensable, not divided by export and domestic. Tax payers who are conscientious under the defined criteria of the law receive budgetary compensation without additional documentary checks of the declarations. The proposed cost-added compensation procedure was in line with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the drafting of Law 4001, approved by our committee. A fundamental and positive rule is that it determines where the service is provided. As a result of its introduction, all misunderstandings related to taxation of this tax services provided to nonresidents and services provided to residents of Ukraine may cease. The issue of simple billing for imports of certain types of equipment was clearly addressed, and a compromise was made with Kabmin to take into account the proposals made by the National Deputies to organize the tax exemption mechanism for the added value of individual tax payers with sectoral signs. , TPRov etc. Therefore, on March 23, 2004, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft law be supported in the first reading, that it be taken as a basis, and that two weeks before the end of this session would lead to a logical conclusion. So there is an offer to support it in the first reading. Last but not least, I'd like to say that, Mr. People's Commissioner, I'm telling you that, for technical reasons, the 11th article did not include a zero rate for disabled organizations. It is therefore proposed that this bill be adopted in the first reading, taking into account this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u46	Thank you. Sergey Anatolyevich, you can sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u47	Maybe there'll be questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u48	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let's move on to the performances. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Michael Melniczuk. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Let's be clear, my fellow Members, at the end or at the beginning of the speech, your position is in favour or against.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". It is certainly good that the bill will change the tax rate to an added value of between 20 percent and 15 percent of the tax base. For a transitional period, from 1 January to 1 January 2006, it is proposed that the tax rate be set at 17 percent. But let's think about it. Well, what, by 2006, we'll be agreeing on and early on what's going to be this wasteful tax on the added value? How much can it be? Why don't we just eliminate him as a class? Yeah, that's better than 20 percent. Yeah, the taxpayers' pockets will have a little less billion than the donkey's. But it doesn't work anywhere. That's why I'm in favour of the positive features of this bill, but against what's written here, this tax needs to continue for 2005 and 2006. We're going to completely destroy the economy in this way. Only questions can be asked, and in the first reading it is deleted only for this year. Now, with regard to that observation that was made by the Committee on Disability Organizations. Please make sure that you forget your approach to the Disabled People’s Organization! People themselves survive one way, they don't ask for it in society, they earn it themselves. And you're in 6.2. 8 write: "Subparagraph 6.2. 8 exclude." "I will sell goods, jobs, services and organizations of social organizations of persons with disabilities as defined in paragraph 5.2.1 of Article 5 of this Act, and not in 11 as the rapporteur has just been told. Ladies and gentlemen, what did we leave those cripples out there? There, in this paragraph 5.2.1, such conditions are laid down that they can't break anything, and we put them on our knees and we just want to destroy them. This is the physical destruction of the disabled. I strongly oppose the inclusion of such paragraphs 6.2. 8 to the bill in the final version. In general, the first reading can be accepted because there is a kind of automatic order of reimbursement of the added value tax, and I think there might be some improvements. Although I don't believe very well, because the President agreed yesterday, I don't know why he agreed that the Supreme Council is guilty of increasing the price of gasoline. And I have a question for the President and the government. Who sold oil factories to the Russians? Who takes Alikperov as if he's the president of the state?Oh, my God! You did it, government officials! You did it, the State Property Fund and you, Leonid Danilovich! It's you who's responsible for the promotion and the price!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u50	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u51	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear friends! In general, the bill would have to be supported if it had not been for a notice and a warning of the following nature. View the agricultural tax situation. And yet we're going to look at the tax situation in agriculture. Is this a tax charge for today? Was it taxed last night? Maybe it's just the word "plum," but there's nothing else in life. As the burden lay upon the peasant. We're going to bed, we're going to bed today. If it's not a price policy, or oil, or bread prices, it's all the same for a peasant. So today, there's nothing to look at. We're talking about a fixed tax in the village today. With this fixed tax, more than one tax is applied to a peasant who is no longer able to process his land, work, or receive at least the smallest income from the product he produces. So I have an offer, I have a request to the committee that introduced the bill, to the authors, be careful, respectable, to review the tax situation in agriculture. Because we've done a lot of things out there that we buy three times or ten times the cost of grain abroad, and we pay our own manufacturer less for the same part. So I don't think there's anything positive about looking at the tax status of the village. And what I'd like to say in general is that let's actually put in a concept of something appropriate, or it had a ten-year fixation in Parliament on the taxation of the village. [[I'm going to the profile committee.]] It can't be that the peasant is listening to the radio all the time, and he's waiting for the Parliament to accept something again that's on his shoulders that's already under the burden of what's in the country today. And with the opportunity, once again, I'd like to go to Mr. Azarov from this rostrum, please take a look at the standing prices of the grain shop. Again, they should not be less than a thousand bracelets, although today this price is not objective for the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u52	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u53	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina. Dear colleagues! Dearly beloved electors! I've been convincing myself lately, and I think that this belief comes to many of you that those bills that we're adopting here, that go through there with 300 votes or less, virtually nothing in our lives is going to change, that no one is actually going to do them. That's why we're just doing a monkey job with you. And instead, those bills that might be radically sensitive to our electorate, they don't go through here. And today, it's another piece of evidence with this same "Croatstall" that Parliament is trying to tear out, tear out the presidential environment itself and leave it to the people. You see how insolent all of this is done. Society knows all this. I've been to the Trailers recently -- every person, literally, knows whose hands this factory goes into, and insolently, we're still doing what the President wants us to do. I witnessed when Gorbachev was imposing a tax on the added value I was then a member of the Soviet Union, and we understood absolutely nothing about it. So the gin that turned into a monster in Ukraine was released into a scary monster, into a political cannon, if you want, that gets hit on all the bad guys. You know how much of this tax of colossal abuse that we're going to deal with someday, I'm sure of it. You know how VAT is redistributed to different firms and stuff. What did I say all this about? Because we need to build up courage, dear colleagues, we are always doing something a little bit in half. So now we're going to accept the concept of the budget again and we're going to say, "Let it be." And then they're going to steal 10 billion from the people's pocket. Because of this, what Terhochin offered today is essentially a reasonable one. He really regulates, let's say, two months for the VAT processing period. It's very good that the tourist services have fallen for it. It's kind of normal and you can vote for it. But, on the other hand, it makes absolutely no difference in this system today. Because I am absolutely convinced, you can press a button, you can not press a button for this bill, it seems to me that nothing radical in our economic life at least makes no difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u54	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u55	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We went back to the situation now that came with the adoption of the 2004 budget. If we had found time and a week with you, let's say we were looking at the draft budget and studying it perfectly, adopting the relevant bills and the corresponding amendments, so we haven't spent that much time making any changes right now. The evil law of 4001, which was imposed before the adoption of the budget and which was later, was not accepted by the Supreme Council. So far, we've been digging these bays for over six months. This is the productivity of the entire Supreme Council. You can't demean the role of the Supreme Council, not the government, not the President, not the individual MP factions, when the sacred acceptance of the budget is a function of the Supreme Council. We didn't do that, and now we're starting to level these mistakes, and we're doing what with the hands of others. I'd like to make my point on this project, as reported by Terjehochin. Right here he's making an amendment, right now, as they say, from a voice that can't be used, you can't build a budget on our disabled. We will collect some small amounts there, but there will be an appropriate moral code today. I would also like to comment on the amendments that are being made on tourism. We, dear friends, have a tourism law aimed at tourism, which means that our people are moving dollars from Ukraine to other countries. When other countries encourage travel tourism to bring dollars here, they were wasted, and they were provided with services. And ours was developing a tourism field. But the Committee on Tourism is blocking these issues for some reason. The law is aimed at tourism and the quick death of small companies in tourism. Only the magnets will survive. I think it's also a huge mistake. I submitted my suggestions to the committee and would like to take it into account. Dear colleagues, I would like this law to reflect on the free transfer to the communal property of the Housing Fund and other socio-cultural objects located in the rural area. They're practically dying today. New owners don't take care of them, they don't need them. An investor will not come to these objects. But the time will come when they will be needed. Therefore, they need to be immediately transferred to local utilities free of charge, and people agree to do so in order to preserve these facilities that will be needed in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. For reasons, Suškević, please. We had to get out of here. Help me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for supporting the disabled. Dear colleagues, in this bill, in the way it is today, you can't accept it. The 4000-1 bill, along with the committee, is very careful to do what's going on in the enterprises where the disabled work. And now, as was said to colleague Teryochinim, they have missed the disabled and have been expelled from the state support system. I just went through all the factions. And those who will vote in favour of this bill clearly say that this is a mistake, a mistake, now, as Mr. Terhochin has said, is technical. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I very much ask that if this bill is to be voted on, considering the exclusion of this technical error. And that's important. Consider, today each of you is supporting the disabled. I know about it, I've gone all over the hall again. I would very much like to vote on this in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be making decisions as a basis. We're finally not taking it. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, microphone, please. Now we're going to hear the closing word from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I have heard what Mr. Teryohin said from the rostrum. But I would like to make another warning about whether or not in the current version of 6.2. 8, or 11 articles, as is the case in today’s project, but this problem really needs to be solved. I get the impression that when we make changes to some laws, we act on the principle that money doesn't smell. Unfortunately, they don't just smell, they sometimes smell. They cannot be accepted in any other way. And I remind some of our colleagues of the standard of article 22 of the Constitution that constitutional rights and freedoms are guaranteed and cannot be repealed and, more importantly, narrowed. I am very much asking that when the law was passed in its final form, this rule was necessarily taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u60	Thank you. All right, you got a deal? What? Mironenko, 30 seconds, please, with motive then. And then Sergei Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u61	It is regrettable that technical errors occur on very important issues, in particular with regard to persons with disabilities. The Communist faction insists that this rule will never pass. Persons with disabilities should not be deprived of benefits. The second 6.2.6 subparagraph also implies the abolition of the zero rate for the sale of milk, meat. I think we should pay attention to that, too. It'll hit the population, it'll hit agriculture. Please be careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u62	Yes, please, Sergey Terjohin, closing. Then I ask for a brief position of Kabmin to form.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u63	Thank you very much. Clearly, then, in view of the fact that the new edition of the sixth article deals only with exports, the zero - rate issue of taxation of disability organizations will be transferred to the 11th article in the section voted in Law 4001 and agreed with the Pensioners Committee. So with regard to village taxation, what was said is you know that Thursday will consider the basic law on this concept of village taxation that is proposed next year. We'll have a discussion there. If the law passed by Deputy Yukhnowsky is passed, we would simply exclude it from this second reading law. There, by the way, the issue of taxation of milk, meat, and so forth. Therefore, the committee’s proposal to take this law on the basis of a disability law and to give a protocol commission to our committee and all the subjects of the legislative initiative to prepare it for final adoption in the last week of this session. If we don't do that, we're going to go through 2005 with this clumsy tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u64	Yes, thank you. Mokryev Volodymir Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the State Tax Administration. Do you support this bill? I got it. Mokriev, I'm talking to you about whether you support this bill or not? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u65	Yes, we support its acceptance as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u66	Thank you, I understand. Dear colleagues, given the warnings that have just sounded, right? Well, with motive, please, Matvienkov. Dear colleagues, let's not let these motives go to infinity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! I ask you to ask: indeed, one of the sickest and most difficult bills that we have not been able to make for many years will be a normal legal field. What is proposed today to vote on first reading is the first attempt to create a normal model and compensation for VAT and a normal transparent model for paying this tax. This isn't a good time, but still. Therefore, there is a request for everyone to support the bill in order to enable industry to work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Shurma, please, microphone. No, dear fellows, it's infinity. You have to write it down. That's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u69	Igor Shurma, faction of the united Social Democrats. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the faction of the United Social Democrats will vote in favour if the disability benefits and the supplements expressed in the discussion are preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the law of Ukraine on value added tax, registration number 5258, with the clarification that the alternate heads of the Committee of Terjehochin have made regarding the disabled. On the basis of that, please vote. We'll take that as a base. [[11:46:00]] For 290 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation is being announced for consideration. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich will report. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich. Honorable colleagues, perhaps we will work without interruption, since we have spent a lot of time reading queries and finding out what our relationship is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a separate bill of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation, which is not new to its content, because its position was an integral part of the adopted Law 4001, which was returned with the President's proposals. It should be noted that the bill actually repeats the content of the corresponding chapter 4001, which takes into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The changes proposed in the law are designed to improve its individual standards in order to eliminate ambiguous interpretations of them that occur in practical application. Moreover, with the introduction of laws such as the Non-State Pension Insurance Act, mortgage lending, consolidated mortgage debt operations, some articles of the above-mentioned law need to be amended, particularly with regard to the taxation of transactions in non-State pension funds, as well as the taxation of mortgage certificates, which will in turn encourage taxpayers, Ukrainian citizens, to develop this segment of the financial services market. Taking into account that the income tax rate has been reduced to 25 percent since January 1, 2004, and that the depreciation rate of the major funds of the first, second and third groups has been increased 1.6 times, it is proposed to cover the risk of budget losses from lowering tax burdens to normalize certain tax benefits given to operators. In addition, with a view to enhancing risk management for the benefit of nonresidents, it is proposed that certain changes be made to the order in which insurance incomes are taxed. In particular, gross premiums received from insurance activities for all types of insurance are offered to be taxed at a rate of three percent on the reduction in gross income on the amount of insurance payments paid under insurance contracts. Taking into account what the practice shows under the form of contract intimidation with a non-resident reinsurance undertaking, the flow of the national capital and the fear schemes are used to minimize taxes. For the purposes of preventing capital outflows, article 13, paragraph 13.6 stipulates that if insurers make payments within insurance or risk insurance contracts in favour of non-residents, they tax such payments at zero per cent if the valuation of the financial reliability of such insurers meets the requirements set by the State Commission for the regulation of financial services markets. And in other cases, at a rate of 3 percent of the sums of such payments. Instead of 15 as set today. With a view to correcting the misunderstandings arising from the practical application of some of the provisions of article 8, it is suggested that the issue of tax reflection of the taxpayer’s tax expenses related to the improvement of core funds, including leases, be clarified. In view of the introduction of the Fiscal Income Tax Act, it is proposed to eliminate double taxation of income from the gaming business to exclude the same standards provided for in paragraph 10.2.1. You remember, in that law, we have 26 percent to pay for the gambling business. And here's 30. I mean, in these 30s, it's off. It is proposed to tax transactions in the purchase of unfinished construction items purchased under contracts made by 1 January 2004 to comply with the rules set out in paragraph 5.2.14 of paragraph 5. 2 The Income Taxation Act of January 1st. It should be noted that, for technical reasons, there is no provision for the introduction of tax accounting for energy-generating companies on the basis of a list established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a result of the reporting year, which we will certainly take into account in the second reading. The proposed bill aims at completing the income part of the budget and improving the administration of the law. In view of the above, the Committee requests support for the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation, based on the first reading, including the inclusion of proposals on the balance sheet value of energy-generating companies, and doing the same thing with the previous project, to look at it as a whole by the end of this session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u72	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Melniczuk. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Bill 5260 is a very complicated bill. In particular, I'd like to say that there are some positive points here in general. In addition to what Sergey Terjochin said, new concepts are introduced, and changes are proposed in the order in which insurance incomes are taxed. But I would like to draw the attention of the committee and all of us, as well as the people of Ukraine, to the negative moments in this bill. I'd like them to be completely removed if they were accepted in the first reading. This is a complication that all taxpayers can make. The point is that, for tax purposes, a tax payer of his choice can assess the disposal of stocks by one of the proposed accounting methods. It's not allowed to use the so-called "lifeo" method. Such a restriction would result in a further delimitation of tax and accounting, i.e. two concepts, as well as the fact that entities taking the accounting method such as lifo would be forced to keep a separate tax charge because the same method of taxing the bill is not allowed. And it's clear that there's going to be an increase in the cost of making this calculation, and there's going to be more mistakes again, more reasons, more reasons to attract entrepreneurs. The bill provides for a valuation of the financial reliability of non-residents and non-residents to agree with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is responsible for defining public policy in the area of the insurance market. [[Honorable People’s Deputies, Think]] That is, the committees themselves place such a small piece of bread and butter. But these standards, to my conviction, do not match the Constitution of Ukraine or the Ukrainian Committees Act. Article 89 of the Constitution states that committees carry out purely legislative work, prepare and pre-examine issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council. The article on the interpretation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine -- this is from March 5, 2003 -- also says that the Committees of the Supreme Council are bodies that have clearly defined competences that cannot be attributed to other issues than those that arise from the need to ensure that the Parliament of Ukraine exercises its powers. Nor does the bill correspond to the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, I wanted to draw your attention to some general proposal to abolish the tax exemption granted outside schools from their primary activities. This is paragraph 7.13.6. Although I'm in favor of reducing the benefits, you have to think to yourself, you don't have to clean it up for higher education. That's why, Your Honor, I have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u74	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u75	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, in familiarizing themselves with the bill presented, I would like to point out that our colleagues, Teryochin and Tsuko, have done a great deal to present it in such an editorial. And, of course, with his acceptance, there was a sense of income to our State budget. The changes that are proposed in the Ukrainian Business Taxation Act we understand that everything that is not done on this subject, both by the committee and colleagues, is done to make the income part of the budget more powerful. In particular, it is suggested that gross premiums received from insurance activities be taxed. Here I would like to make such a warning or not to suffer from it by the citizens of Ukraine, whom we will be speaking to, these insurance companies or insurance authorities, means to conduct appropriate operations with them. I think on this point I would like to see a more transparent procedure for this taxation and to be more clearly defined on the second reading. Of course, in the first reading and on the basis of the factions will support this bill, not just because our colleague and a member of our Tsushko faction is here, but because, in fact, today, this bill needs to be supported, and before the second reading, it certainly needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u76	Mikola Rudzikowski, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is preparing Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u77	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, indeed, today we can adopt in the first reading a series of bills that will allow for a better tax base for taxpayers and on this basis form a budget. I'd like to draw the attention of the drafters to the fact that the points you're proposing to standardize by insurance companies, to introduce the rating principle and so on, that's a very good suggestion, because for today, one of the main forms of tax evasion and avoidance is payment to insurance companies. We know that every businessman who's switched his own gross traffic over 50 million is creating his insurance company and thus taking out taxes. There is a need for order in this matter. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the second reading, it would be desirable to extend this bill and introduce methods to monitor the financial revenues of enterprises, as it were, the main ones that make the currency arrivals in Ukraine. The point is that today, exports from Ukraine are made in regions that import about 70 percent, sometimes 50 percent higher at prices than they are now on the Black Sea coast. I think that these methods should somehow be taxed, and taxation should come from direct supply operations. The operations carried out today through offshore zones of exports from Ukraine have resulted in a catastrophic decline in revenues, including the budget and the cost of negotiable enterprises. Of course, most of these enterprises are privatized, we've seen how the Crimsonstal is privatized. And I'm drawing your attention, all the deputies that are in this room. You'll see how in the following year, Creebrisstal will pay less than twice as much tax in both the local and the central budget. Why? Because it's privatized and a tax optimisation scheme is being implemented. I think we should start such mechanisms this year so that enterprises such as the Creebrisstal and other monopolistic enterprises will pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u78	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, in this bill on taxation of the profits of capitalist enterprises, the Ukrainian bourgeois elite is trying to settle their relationship. And its representatives from the Supreme Council of Ukraine announced such beautiful calls for a normalization of insurance activity, for the use of ratings by all companies. And we know how those ratings go up or down. It's about national capital. How beautiful and attractive it sounds. I would like to point out that, according to official data from the government tax administration in Ukraine, there are already over 2,200 people who have annual incomes of over one million dollars and over 200 people who have annual income of over 100 million. That's right. This bill proposes to help these representatives of the Ukrainian Capitalist elite. What are some beautiful words about the elimination of double taxation? And it was finally said that the purpose of this bill is to complete the income part of the budget. When I heard that, I even cried with enthusiasm. The thief stole the oak and now complains of being insulted and eaten. But, Your Honor, let's mention another saying: The crows don't cast off the crow's eye. And all the legal appeals from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum about contributing to the domestic producer, the national capital, and that this would somehow affect the income part of the budget, all of this is another lie. To which our faction, the Communists, would never give up and give up. So I declare that when we discuss this bill on a faction, we have decided not to vote in favour of this bill as one that is essentially declarant in a part that touches on the interests of the deprived people and the real nature to help those who already live without it. Hence, respected colleagues, national deputies, and respected radio listeners! Let's do everything we can to make sure that the budget is actually filled, not just declarations, and not money flows from one pocket to another's pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking the people's deputies to mobilize. The concluding word from the committee is Terhochin. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies! If you don't talk about this bill, as the previous reporter did, you can see there's a lot of rules that are needed for the manufacturing industry. Let's say these are new rules for calculating material values that allow organizations to plan their profits as they need, not as they need a DPA official there. There's a strong improvement in the depreciation of the core funds, i.e. the capitalization of profits, the increase in production power and so on, and so on and so forth. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading, taking it as a basis. And a big request: During the week, the legislators of the legislative initiative will offer us proposals so that we can bring them to the final discussion of the last week of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u82	Thank you. Vadim Anatoliyovich, do you support this project? Well, tell them to hear the national MPs. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Yes, we support this law, we worked together, and so we would like to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Business Income Tax Act, registration number 5260. Please vote. [[12:05:06]] For 271 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Income Tax Act is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, I spoke to you and said that we had spent a lot of time today making inquiries, then finding out the relationship, and offered to continue our work uninterrupted. You agreed. Yes, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax for Persons is under consideration. [[on pension contributions]] Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u84	On March 23, the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking considered project 5275. [[I'm very short.]] The bill amends Ukraine's Income Tax Act, which is required to comply with the general government pension policy, the mortgage and non-state pension policy. The bill aims to increase the level of social protection for children by increasing the amount of social security tax and by clarifying the rules of this law in order to obtain tax benefits for each child. [[Article 6]] In order to simplify the administration of the tax on income, it is proposed that the company clarify the rules of the law in force, which defines persons who are tax agents when they collect, pay for their income. The bill sets out the specificities of determining the object of taxation in the case of income collection in favour of a tax payer in the form of lottery, games, gambling, casinos, and so forth, in order to avoid the avoidance of such taxation that is being done in a mass way. Prior to the introduction of the compulsory health insurance system, the project is proposed not to include in the taxable income the health care that is provided to health care providers to compensate for the cost of paying services paid by a taxpayer or a member of his family, including medicines, donor components, prosthetic or orthopaedic applications that are not covered by payments from the General Health Insurance Fund. The draft clearly states that the standards of paragraph 4.2.12 of paragraph 4.2. in the part of the inclusion in the monthly tax income of fiscal income in interest on bank deposits, contributions to non-bank financial institutions or interest, discount income on deposit and savings certificate and the rules of article nine take effect only from 1 January 2005 and are not applicable this year. You know that DPA already wants to tax interest on credit deposits. The bill proposes to amend paragraph 22.6., according to which it is established that the taxation of the taxpayer's income due to the tax periods before 1 January 2004 is carried out at rates that were in effect at the time of the actual payment of the grant. The main science-expert authority has pointed out that the bill in question can be adopted. to be taken as a basis in the first reading, so we suggest that we do the same as the previous two bills. This very important bill will allow us to launch a system of non-state pension insurance in the country and to collect double taxation due to the implementation of the new law on compulsory government pension insurance, including. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the name of the national MPs is on the board and let us explain that they have signed up for the performance. Yuri Carmazin. While Yuri Karmazin is coming, Assadchev is motivated. Or procedure, to be exact. From the Assad process, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to understand twice the Chairman's standards again. Why, in one case, when we reject, say yes, from the Rules, you vote that, and in another case you make the decision on your own? Let's vote again or take a break or not. It's a deviation from the Rules, but let's vote because in one case, so to speak, procedures and in the other, other procedures. Let's stick to one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I think, on the contrary, there is a desire for us to consider important issues. I proposed, I asked. You said we wouldn't take breaks. Well, if that's what you want. Who's in charge of taking a break? Please identify. Vote, please. Who wants to take a break? [[12:10:05]] For-89 Report, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I would ask everyone if you would point me to the mistakes in the Rules when the work of the Supreme Council is blocked, too, is not provided for by the Rules. Let's be polite to each other. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u88	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! After this draft of amendments to the Income Tax Act, I wanted to thank the people's deputies, Teryochina, for the draft bill, one word to say. Now for the analysis of this bill. The bill proposes that paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Law on Income Taxes be deleted. Such a proposal will only have a positive effect, since these positions do not today conform to other standards of the same law. Well, that's how he assumed he had a contradiction inside. I would like to draw attention to such positive things as that the changes to paragraph 3.5 of the law, which state that when an object collects its incomes, taxes in the form of wages are defined as the sum of such wages, reduced by the sum of the collection to the Ukrainian Pension Fund and at the same time the contributions to the general government social insurance funds. What will happen today and what will happen? To date, the salary may be reduced either by the amount of the congregation to the Pension Fund, or by the amount of the contributions to the National Social Insurance Fund, but this exceeds the amount of the tax object to which either the amount of the collection into the Pension Fund or the amount of the contributions to the funds is paid and then the taxpayer pays more. So I think the proposed option is social. The bill proposes to increase the amount of insurance premiums paid by employees for the benefit of their employee, which are not included in the total monthly taxation of such an employee. Thus, the employee’s income will increase, and this will contribute to the social protection of the people, and will increase the amount of insurance that employers will have for their employees, and this will encourage them to do so. To the end. This will stimulate an increase in wages, which today is extremely low in Ukraine. The changes to paragraph 5.3.5 will also allow taxpayers to include in the tax credit the amount of the taxpayer’s tax expense on their own contribution to the pension contract with the unreserved Pension Fund, as well as contributions to the bank’s pension deposit account and to the pension contributions of both the taxpayer and his family. Therefore, I would like once again to support this bill, adopted in the first reading, and once again to thank Teryochina and Tsuko for preparing this bill. Thank you, he's positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u89	Please, People's Deputy Melniczuk. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u90	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I really want to support Yuri Anatolyovich. Today, the MPs Tsushko and Teryochina thank you for the bills they have put forward for consideration. Indeed, the question of the pension of individuals is so principled. And here experts have found the motivation for solving this issue, because it is very painful for pensioners. You know, sometimes it's absurd to tax things that an average person can't even think of. But in this version of the bill, we see the professional approach of the people's deputies, the sense is that they don't work in parliament for the first year and work very professionally on the bills. Since there are also some pensioners involved, I would like to state on this point that perhaps the time will come when our parliament, our calling, we will find time, day, two, week of parliamentary activity to return to the rural pension policy issue. Actually, today it is very difficult to talk about a peasant pensioner. Miserable pensions. We're talking about those who get it and keep 3-4 members of the pensioner's family around. Because there is no work in the country today. And those members of the family where the pensioner lives are happy to have a person around who can at least get a living penny a month. But what kind of pension is that? We have to go back to rural retirement, because that's what we're leaving behind. Now we decide who's going to be the only candidate, the second who's going to be the candidate in general, the third time we think about how to take money from the budget to another side and forget about the village. And the village is a nursing home. We have to understand that. We felt that such a peasant had not been paid the price of bread and that he was not there today. So let's support the village pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u91	The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine, followed by Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the bill is externally an attractive title for the income tax of natural persons and still in the bonds of pension contributions. My colleague who reported this bill set out the main purpose of this bill, if the small things were to be rejected, and the main purpose was to launch a non-State pension scheme. We remember with you how in this very hall and around this rostrum, there were disputes and even walls on the wall when they changed the pension system of the state to the insurance system. Our people have already felt what it is. They are now trying to prove to a different category of the population and who will once again receive pensions that this country is unable to provide you with decent pensions. So you have to take care of yourself. And so, respectable small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, let's set up separate and special non-state pension funds for you. And it is you who, on your personal claim, will be investing in your peaceful old age there, and they will invest somewhere and somehow capitalize. To those who have these dreams, I want to remind you of a two-year-old scandal that arose around the pension fund of the world-famous Enron Gas Corporation, which began in Britain and ended its journey to the United States. And how this company has been subsidizing this very money of the pension fund, both the government -- and the republican, and the democratic, and the prosecutor's office, and all the other structures of power. And by this time, the matter had not yet ended. So I want to tell those who dream of having a garden, their quiet old age. Your dreams will end with how they ended for several hundred thousand workers of the world-renowned Enron Corporation or our various trusts. Yesterday we discussed this very area of the Law on Public Health Insurance. Thank God that the MPs have determined that even here with this insurance, nothing should be done and pushed so boldly and rejected the bill. That's why our faction was looking at this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u93	Please, Yavorowski. I see. Then we'll determine. 30 seconds, that's the deal. Please. Final word, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention another point: this bill has no relation to the non-State pension scheme. This system was adopted separately, it's working now, and we need to exempt double taxation from the costs that go, by the way, not only into the non-state pension insurance system, but also into the health care system and the state-wide pension insurance system. That's what this law is about. So there is an offer to accept it in the first reading on behalf of the committee and to bring it to the final consideration of the Supreme Council two weeks later. Thank you. The government supports as far as I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Income Tax Act, Bill No. 5275 for adoption as a basis. [[on pension contributions]] [[12:21:12]] For 277 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a draft of the Order to Remove Certain Bills: Bill No. 5205. This is about the fact that the Budget Committee of Profiles proposes that a number of drafts be removed from the consideration of the draft amendments to the 2003 State Budget Act. Obviously it will be 2005 soon, so I would like to support the committee's proposal to withdraw these bills. Please vote. [[12:22:13]] For 301 Decision taken. Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. So let's move on to the chapter "To get into the agenda and make decisions. I'm asking you to support and put into order the daily draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates for alcohol ethyl and alcoholic beverages, is bill number 3632, and a similar bill on excise duty rates for alcohol ethyl and alcoholic beverages at number 4192. Both of these bills are put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please vote. Two, two bills. [[12:23:12]] For 282 Bills Nos. 3632 and 4191 are included in the consideration and decision - making of the registration numbers. Yes, please, a bill on excise duty rates for alcohol and ethyl and alcoholic beverages. Yes, Bill 3632, Noshtenko, one of the authors. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! Thank you for your support. Katerina Vaschuk co-author, and I'm also co-author of this bill, and I've been on my way to the county, and I'll report it. Over the years, the U.S. State budget has provided considerable funds for setting up and overseeing young gardens, vineyards, and berries, demonstrating the State’s considerable attention to supporting the sector. In particular, the 2004 budget provides 126 million dollars. Yet, in parallel with the development of gardening, vineyards and berries, there is always a question that we are looking at almost every year in this session hall -- it's the support of native producers of fruit-based wines, the increase in production of this product. Regrettably, the current rates, which were approved in 1996 and did not work for a year, make up two 60 - pints per liter at a fractional price today, two 20 - pint bracelets. Well, there's no such thing as a miracle in the economy. By January 1st, there was a bracelet 20, a halt in the production of this type of product. The production of fruit-based wines in five months declined five times, correspondingly decreased both to the State Budget and to the budgets of all levels. Total number-- about 40 million dollars. Bill No. 4000-1, Bill 3004 settled the issue by setting the excise rate of 90 copies, but for reasons not relevant to the problem, they were not accepted. The bill I am presenting today proposes to return temporarily to the market price settlement to the rate that was in effect before January 1, 2004 is bracelet 20. Its implementation does not require additional material and financial costs, and acceptance will provide an opportunity: first, not to allow the production of fruit-based wines to stop, second, to create a reliable tax base, to be budgeted; third, not to lose the market. Experience has it that it is a balanced rate of excise duty. The bill is supported by an expert board, a professional committee. Moreover, the committee of profile decided to take it as a basis and generally as a law. I'm asking you to back me up. This will allow us to work in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u97	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Cuzko Vasil Petrovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, will report. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, Mr. Noshchenko had just reported, indeed, this was the point in the bill of 4,000-1, and no doubt in 3004, and the Government supported it. It was in force until 1 January 2004. But since we haven't adopted those bills, today we have found that fruitful wines -- actually this is part of the processing of our fruits -- have an excise of 2.6. This excise is not real. Therefore, we propose a rule that has been in force until 2004 until 1 January 2004 to extend more precisely the bracelet 20. It's also going to be excise, because in fact, those enterprises that made the juices, they stopped. There's a consumer for this product. Grevnia 20 is the excise they paid and worked normally, gives this real income to the budget, so the Committee proposes to adopt the bill on first and second readings, generally because no one has objected and the Government has also supported the committees. By the way, I recall that last year 2003, this initiative was not shown by the Committee on Finance, but by the budgetary committee, considering that if the rate of 2.6 is stopped and that the bracelet of 20 jobs is also realized. Therefore, I ask you to vote on the law as a whole, today to enact it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think it's necessary to discuss it. Let the one who does not drink wine not vote. Carmazine. Please, from Karmazin's place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u100	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'd like to make this a clear example of what reckless government actions are. What's happening when they took a $2.6 bill per liter, while the sale price was up to 2 bracelets. Maximum. And it's all falling apart. 5 times reduced output, reduced revenue, already 50 million lost, the juices went down, and that's all Central Ukraine. There's absolutely no export and you see what's going on. So what I'd like to say is let me suggest that we accept both on the first and the second readings, and I want to warn the government that I'm going to warn the government about such unserious approaches to the future with such experiments. We've done many more experiments like this. And the Noshchenko Bill, which was introduced. At first, Noshenko separately introduced it, in exchange for the draft bill, but we need to specify which one we have, and accept it in the first and second readings, because he will actually allow the business to resume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u101	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for your support. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a whole, as a law, a law amending the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates for ethyl and alcoholic beverages. [[Registration number 3632]] We're in a friendly vote. [[12:30:32]] For 311 The law was passed in general. They did not vote 90, so they do not drink the wine of 90 national deputies. The draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On Excise Assembly Rates for ethyl and Alcoholic Drinks" is being heeded, Bill 4191, author of Žebrovski Pavel Ivanovich. [[on ethyl alcohol used by health companies]] Please, Paul Ivanovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u102	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The law that I have passed is passed in exchange. The first law, which was passed, provided for a zero rate of excise duty, was filed in September of last year. However, in line with the agreement with the Ministry of Finance, when there was agreement, so that the bill would not change and have support, I have introduced a bill on 2 bracelets of excise duty on alcohol for health and medicine institutions. Actually, last year we had 2 bracelets, in the past year, 12 copies of excise duty on medical alcohol, but every year it's been adding up like that, and today we've come up with 16 dollars of excise alcohol. It should be noted that the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree of 2077 of December 30, 2003 on compensation for 14 fines. But how does this compensation take place? Businesses have been in operation for nearly six months, and health facilities have been in operation, and only 27 May has the Ministry of Health account received 27 million dollars. In fact, enough pharmaceutical factories, hospitals have not been compensated for excise duties until now, in fact, after working for six months. I think it's the money that's being disbursed from the State. In addition, you realize that first the enterprise and the hospital, including pay, and then after a while, after 5-6 months, Minfin, through the Ministry of Health, compensates them for that figure. So you imagine there's no money in the hospital, but she has to pay that money and then make it up to them. And so are domestic drug manufacturers. In general, I would like to point out that as of today, enough similar drugs are registered in Russian manufacturing, where excise duty on drugs and medical establishments is 0 bracelets. I think this bill, it's social, it's not as economic as social. I would ask you all to vote in the first reading for this bill, and in general. The profile committee of this thesaurus supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u103	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Let's hear the profile committee's opinion. First Deputy of the Head, Tsusko Vasil Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I fully support what the colleague and the author of the law of Žebravski said. Only our committee proposes the adoption of the law on first reading, as changes to the budget are now being considered and linked and adopted on second reading by the end of the session. Because it's agreed, in principle, on 2 bracelets. We're going back to what was, a medical two bracelets. But due to the changes in the budget, since compensation was provided for, the law must be linked. Therefore, for one simple reason, our committee has proposed the adoption of the law on first reading. Then, in conjunction with the Committee on Budgets, we will proceed. Pavel Ivanovich, I am reporting the Committee's decision, and you will confirm that I am not falsifying the Committee's decision. I do not report on my behalf, but on behalf of the Committee. That's the committee's decision. The Committee suggested that the bill should be adopted and that two bracelets should be supported for medical alcohol and that the rate of the first reading should be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the committee’s first deputy head, reported on the committee’s decision. I confirm that this is exactly the way it is to accept it in the first reading. It's a committee proposal, and it's going to be a hall. Yes, there are two of us who have signed up for the discussion. Please, from Karmazin and Yavorowski per minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u106	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, when we passed the State Budget Act, when we passed the Act on Excise Congregation Alcohol and Alcoholic Drinks Act, we emphasized that we were raising prices for corrals, for tungsten, for the alcohol used in laboratories, for all of this. And now there's a problem in hospitals, in clinics, around. Let's think about what we are as the Supreme Council so, on the wine we say let's take it and accept it immediately on the first and second readings, and now we're proposing, and the committee only offers it on the first reading. So I think that's the cost and the indicator of how we're doing. And you know that hospitals don't have the money to count them. And only in May, at the end of May, did they start in June.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u107	Please, the Yavorov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u108	Vladimir Yavorowski. Adam Ivanovich, I want to tell you right away, I have three minutes and don't turn me off, please, because this is a short-circuit discussion. Dear colleagues, already dead, sadly dead, powerful Reagan once said: The government will never solve our problems because it is the problem itself. This is about our government, probably not about the American government. And the second. When God wants to punish a person, he takes away his mind, gains his strength. This is clearly the exact characteristic of what was done with the rise through the exit through alcohol to increase medication. Well, to think of a government in our miserable state, when pensioners are barely living, they're older people to take alcohol to raise drug prices. Because of this, Adam Ivanovich, I respect the opinion of the committee of profile. But the profile committee, it's about 15-20 people, I'm asking and I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Wait, please. I'll say it again. Don't yell. The hall will be determined in what kind of reading. Don't get excited, everything will determine the hall, and everything will be fine. I'm not taking it. I say it again, I turn it off automatically, not take it away. I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Excise Assembly on ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages on ethyl alcohol, which is used by health companies, registration number 4191, on the basis of. [[12:38:18]] For 222 Dear colleagues, by factions. "Our Ukraine" - 89, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 6, Communists - 53, Social Democrats and "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 5, National Agrarian Party - 16, Socialists - 19, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" - 6, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 6, "Centre" - 0. Dear colleagues, don't shout. Don't scream, I can hear you. Who's to go back and vote on this bill again, please make up your mind. [[12:39:20]] For 233 Decision taken. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis, i.e. in the first reading of Bill 4191. Please vote. [[12:39:50]] For 237 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 98, "Regions of Ukraine" is 3, Communists 58, Social Democrats, Democratic Initiatives. The People's Government," "Trudova Ukraine" is zero, National Agrarian Party is 20, Socialists are 20 Blocks of Timoshenko - 18, Union - 6, NDP and industrialists, entrepreneurs - 10, Center - 0, non-fractional - 4. There was a proposal to vote in general as a law because there was one sentence. I'm asking you to support this proposal. We vote in general as a law. [[12:40:48]] For 226 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 93, "Regions of Ukraine" is 2, communists are 59, Social Democrats, Democratic Initiatives. The People's Government, the Hard Ukraine, zeros, the People's Agrarian Party, 21, the Socialists, 14 Timoshenko Block 17, the Union, 6, the NDP and the industrialists, the entrepreneurs, 10, the Center, 0, the non-fractional - 4 We're moving on. Bill number 5289, author of the Osik Bill. Since he's sick, we don't look at him. Once again, Bill 5289, Osik's National MP. And there's a letter from Osika. So who's right? It is good that you, Shepetin, but there is a letter from Osaka that he is sick to bear. Are you ready to report? Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Bill 5289 of the People's Deputies Osika and Shepetin on certain provisions for tax change is a major extract of some of the provisions of well-known Law 4001. He supported the drafting of the Supreme Council Act at a meeting on 5 February this year and was in substance agreed with all actors in the legislative initiative. The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting, reviewed the draft law and conceptually supported it. It takes into account all the comments of the President of Ukraine on Bill 4001 of the bill. It now deals with certain provisions of the bill. The changing taxation of the gaming business proposes to improve its existing order from January 2005. In addition to the existing patenting system, the licensing system for this business is additionally introduced, and a licence for the gaming business is set at Euro30,000. This will not only significantly streamline the monitoring of the provision of gaming services, but also provide additional funds to the 2005 State budget for more than 100 million bracelets. Trade patenting is being optimized. The regulations and procedures for granting permits and licences for the use of natural resources will allow for the resolution of the conflict that exists today when there is no approved procedure for issuing such authorizations. In addition, the fee for such a licence is set at 3,000 unladen minimums, or 51,000 bracelets per licence. The expert calculations show that the additional income of the budget is 750 million dollars. Proposals for public procurement procedures would not only simplify but also make public procurement, works and services more transparent, but also significantly save government money at 30 per cent of the total public spending on such procurement. In addition, administrative measures to abuse such procurement have been strengthened. I propose to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u111	Thank you. The committee reports to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please, the chairman of the Burjak Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. It's literally short. First of all, this bill provides for the improvement and order of the list of types of business benefits that do not require a commercial patent or are carried out under a business-trafficking patent. That's the first one. The second is to place under State control the profits that are earned in the field of gaming. This will be achieved through the introduction of licenses for the use of slot machines as a type of entrepreneurial activity and the establishment of a congregation equivalent to 30,000 euros, respected colleagues. According to previous estimates by the Ministry of Finance, the amount of additional revenue in the State budget will amount to about 100 million dollars just under this second item. Thirdly, the elimination of the contradictions between Ukraine's 2004 State Budget Act and the Ukraine Nadra Code and the Ukraine Oil and Gas Act. This will unlock the process of licensing for the use of nadrama, which has already resulted in significant losses to the State budget since the beginning of this year. It is proposed that a flexible system for issuing these licences be put in place, as has already been checked, of a competitive mechanism and of auction sales, with a significant increase in the congregation’s licensing of up to 51,000 dollars. According to an expert estimate, unlocking the activities of drug users will allow for an increase in government budget revenues of 900 million dollars. Fourthly, the improvement of the public procurement system and the introduction of modern technologies in tendering and other procurement procedures will significantly reduce the administrative expenditure of budget managers. According to the Ministry of Economics, spending accounts for about 30 percent of the public spending allocated to public procurement. This is going to be over 400 million dollars. At the same time, with the aim of preventing violations of legislation in the procurement of goods, jobs and services at public expense, it is envisaged that an administrative fine should be imposed on officials from 30 to 70 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens. During the consideration of this bill by the Committee on Finance and Banking at the invitation of members of the Committee, an agreed decision was made on the application of the individual articles of January 1, 2005, and I underline, as well as the supported proposals on the order of the lists of goods for commercial activities carried out on terms of reference. [[It's about the gaming business.]] This is true of agricultural production. The committee supported the bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention. Please support
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u113	Thank you. I mean, the agrarians got the answer to their questions that they took your opinion into account. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please. 4. Teryohin. I'm sorry. Carmazin, followed by Solomonine. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! First. It is a very serious law to adopt it immediately in two readings. So I'm asking you to write down immediately that in two readings this law is, of course, impossible to adopt by analogy with the previous ones. There are positives in this Law, and there are negatives. In particular, among the benefits are that it is envisaged to license commercial activities using domestic goods such as beef and pork, domestic birds, eggs, and fish. In particular, the liquor trade patent is also issued to business entities or entities that carry out commercial activities solely with the use of domestic goods, such as postage stamps, postcards, periodicals of printed media, travel tickets, goods of national industries, prepared medical supplies, coal, and so on. And that's all positive. But I don't get it, and I can't support it, as a representative of the Party of Natives and the Block of Our Ukraine, I can't support a reduction in the cost of a patent, but I can't support twice the use of a gambling machine with a cash or property win from 2,000,800 dollars to a thousand, 400 dollars, to use a gaming table with a roulette ring -- from 128, 000 dollars to 64,000 dollars, to use other gaming tables. Today you go to Kiev, you go to other cities, and all you see is a casino. So what else do we do for them today? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make sure that we don't somehow confuse what we want to do for the state and what we need to do to improve legislation and how to make changes to the law, and how to make changes to the law, and what we want to do is negative. With regard to what I have just said in the casinos, I would like to say that this does not clearly meet the requirements of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which requires the identification of expenditure that needs to be reduced, or the source of additional budgetary revenue that will achieve the balance of the Ukrainian State budget. In another case, the increase in such benefits for gaming institutions is at a time when people are barely making ends meet, which will lead to the underfunding of budget articles, particularly those we talked about. Both teachers and the army cancel out and everything, and here we're doing these kind of benefits. So I'm going to offer a positive support in the first reading, and I'm going to rule everything out. In addition, there are amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations that need to be concluded by law enforcement committees. They didn't say anything today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u115	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Solomon. Rudzkowski if there's a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u116	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. My dear colleagues, I'm not interested in the gambling business, I'm interested in the novelties of this bill that touch on the organization of licenses for drug use. It's a very attractive question to ask on the outside. First of all, according to the Law. The cabin was supposed to be on auction selling these licenses, openly. But on different grounds, and under different circumstances, the order of determination of these auctions has not yet been determined. Thus, the bill provides for a return to the old way of dealing with the matter. And it's argued that way. The average number of congregations per year is 1.5 million. And there are 645 candidates in line for the license. So in general, this amount of revenue in the budget has to be about one billion dollars, including for the development of a mineral raw material base. But what's really going on. When I asked the appropriate state committee to give me a list of all the entrepreneurs who are trying to get these licenses, I didn't get this list, but I got an invitation to the committee to look at this list. And I understand why this is happening. To this I have, I want to bring you back to the events of yesterday. It was in this room yesterday that my Bill 3366 on the licensing of certain types of activity was discussed, and it was this Bill that envisaged the introduction of a license to extract beneficial fossils. The bill received as many as 70 votes. One vote from Our Ukraine, the communists all 58, the Yulia Block Timoshenko-4; the Alliance faction five, and the non-fractional two. This is where the interests of the whole new Ukrainian bourgeoisie coincided, which makes the last bite in drug use. And the centrists, and the right ones, and the presidents, and the others. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, I beg you, for the Constitution, all that is above is the acquisition of all generations of the Ukrainian people and those who have been, and those who are now, and those who are coming. We will not allow modern thefts in the law of the new Ukrainian bourgeoisie to steal what does not belong to them. So the licensing is transparent, and we need to go back to that bill that was insolvently broken yesterday by the new Ukrainian bourgeoisie and force it to obtain licenses for such.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u117	Please, Rudzkowski. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u118	Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the previous speaker that everything in our country and licensing should be conducted in a transparent manner, in accordance with the law. If we adopt appropriate laws, regulate them by law, then it will be transparent. If we have this under our dress, under the government’s authority, and so forth, it is certainly not transparent. Regrettably, the mining in Ukraine has been blocked for today. And we have big problems in Crimea with water. There are major problems in the Hersonian region. No one can take the land away, no one can start work, because the issue is not legally settled. Of course, the adoption of this law will open up the situation. But on the other hand, it'll give real revenue to the budget, counted, and the committee reporter said, up to 900 million dollars, if this law works, we'll get into the budget. This, on the one hand, will give us an opportunity to discuss with the government tomorrow about the distribution of these funds and the increase of social programs. On the other hand, it will allow for a transparent installation of the mechanism in the use of natural resources. Otherwise, what's happening now is being done outside the law. And there's a job for the Attorney General. Because everything is done in a personal relationship. We have to regulate everything by law. Because natural resources are national wealth. Another issue that I think should be settled before the second reading is that it must be excluded in the first part from licensing trade in meat and meat products. I hope that the head of the committee in the closing statement on this points out, because these are the products of consumption of the vast majority of citizens, there is trade in markets, and so on. We should not block trade in Ukraine with the most essential food. I believe that in the first reading this law can be adopted. And to adjust to the second, all the points that were highlighted by the speakers, especially in the part of the gaming business. The gaming business also needs to be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u119	Chernobyl, I can't see. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u120	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka's electoral block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I turn to the agrarians who are now trying to give a tax in the form of what seems to be the elimination of meat and milk patents. He doesn't exist today anyway. If this law is not put into effect, it will not go on. Now let's see who the bill is for. This was a game business. And I want to look at those who work on oil and gas. So I'm reading straight what this bill is proposing. If a special permit is granted, i.e. there are no competitions, there are no tenders for the use of naphtha-gasms outside the competition, it's written in the bill -- the drug user pays the congregation for the granting of a permit of a thousand untaxed minimums. Think about it! So this bill is actually for those who can get a license today for oil and gas products outside the competition, according to the bill. In fact, the price goes down for each layer that they're going to extract, a couple dozen times. Three thousand untaxed minimums will be dropped and you can get as much as you want! And I'm going to add one more rule that the Social Democrat was saving for: and now we have this license for 50 years. [[united]] Think about it! You'll pay three thousand untaxed minimums once. And that'll be the end of it. And for 50 years, you get the right to produce oil and gas. That is why I propose that this bill be rejected as one that beats the budget. And now here is Mr. Kopilov, the tax representative of the tax administration. Mr. Bastard, I'm talking to you! Please tell me how much tax administration plans to lose on drug use when making this most frightening decision in the hall?Oh, my God! I would like to hear the answer of Mr. Kopilov, who saves so much for coming to the Budget when he needs to be taken to the teacher, to the doctor when he needs to get his money out of medical alcohol. And here, you see, three thousand tax-free minimums for 50 years! I believe that there should be a formal investigation, in what way did this bill appear in the session room at all? Who is behind this bill and directly identify those owners of the oil and gas companies that have broken through this decision, which is directly in Ukraine’s budget. They say there's no money to raise the minimum wage, and to reduce the license, there is, to give 50 years of oil and gas -- there is. So I propose that this bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u121	Thank you. A little bit of detail: Sergey Vladislavovich Kopilov works as deputy minister of finance. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'll put it to a vote. Budget Committee? Well, it's not written here. Well, from the procedure, please, one minute, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! The State Budget Act for this year provides 180 million dollars of revenue to be set aside if the Supreme Council now votes in favour of this law. The State Budget Act establishes a transparent licensing procedure and establishes an open auction. If this law is now supported, the budget will not receive more than 180 million dollars. The message from the honourable colleague of Rudzkowski, that the situation is now blocked, does not correspond to reality, because the government has accepted the order, approved it in Kabmini, and the only thing that we need in our respected oligarchs and the political forces that are close to them is to pay money to the State Budget, not to contribute to it. Then the country will live easier, and people will live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, closing word, one minute, Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I want to ask you this proposal and request, and I want to mark it in the transcript. We have in part 6 of article 3 without the acquisition of a business patent by subjects of entrepreneurial activity or their structural units engaged in commercial activities — bread, bread, bologna, wheat flour, and livestock, that sort of thing. I suggest in preparation for the second reading that you add "chicken and pork, domestic bird, eggs, fish." And this will be done if this bill is adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u125	Yes, dear fellows, we will vote. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the change of rates and the procedure for making certain congregations compulsory payments is put to the vote. Registration number 5289. On the basis of the first reading. [[13:04:17]] For 176 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, "Ukrainian Regions" - 57, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 39, "Deminiciates" - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 29, National Agrarian Party - 11, Socialists - 19. Come on, please. Block Timoshenko - 0, Soyuz - 8, NPP, Industrial Party - 9, Centre - 0, Postfaction - 3. Is there no offer? Then the bill was rejected. There's another first reading. Who's behind this offer, please be sure. [[13:05:22]] For-167 The decision is not supported. The bill was thus rejected. [[But it doesn't matter anymore, the numbers are the same.]] Please, we need to include in the agenda and consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the administration of taxes, congregations, compulsory payments. The Teryohin People's Deputy Project, number 5294. We vote for inclusion in the agenda and consideration. [[13:06:06]] For-100 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 61, "Ukrainian Regions" is 0, Communists are 29, Social Democrats, "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government", "Trudova Ukraine", "The People's Agrarian Party is zero, the Socialists are 7, "Timoshenko Block" is 1, "Soyuz", "NDP," "Industry and Entrepreneurs and "Centre" is zero, "O" is 2. Unfortunately, we have not included the bill in the agenda, so the bill is not being considered. Yes, about the inclusion in the agenda and acceptance of the application. The draft Decision on the adoption of a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conflict that has taken place recently in Kosovo and Metohija. Project of the People's Deputy, Shibka. Registration number 5321. There is a vote on inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please be supportive. [[13:07:19]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 5, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 55, Social Democrats - 6, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 4, People's Agrarian Party - 1, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16, "Soyuz" - 0, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 4, "Centre" - 0, non-fractional - 1. So, well, it'll help a little. If it was 200, I understand. If it's 112. Quick, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you on the grounds that this statement was written on March 25th right after the events that took place in Metohija and Kosovo, but that doesn't mean that there's some tension going down for today, so please note that the statement is balanced, and I'm very much asking you to come back to that. Maybe at the time you've been through, you've been paying attention to it, but there's a number of conceptual things that are balanced today and they don't differ with the international public about how to settle this conflict there today. I very much ask you to come back and consider this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u127	Please, from the Chubarov procedure, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should express its position in any situation in which human rights are widely violated and especially if these rights are violated by ethnic or religious indications. And before we've not been voted on right now, I think we should be consistent in this position, and we should also reflect such a position on, unfortunately, the many conflict situations that are around Ukraine: both Kosovo and Chechnya, where the Chechen nation is destroyed. So I think we should prepare a joint statement that would reflect Ukraine's position as a peace-loving state for any such mass violations of human rights and the destruction of human beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u129	Boris Ilchi Oliynik, who knows these problems very well, is one minute. And we'll figure it out. You've just been delivered. From "Our Ukraine" were representatives; now I've given away from the faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Bombings in Kosovo and Metohija are, by the way, a precedent that then led on to Iraq, and still goes on to Syria and Iran. So the Council of Europe condemned all of these actions. And a provoked beating, an interfaith fight is just the beginning of it all. Thus, the Council of Europe, referring to the decision of the United Nations, urged the United Nations to resolve the matter immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I will now make a proposal for a return to this issue. I'd like to make a statement. Who's to go back to the project's decision to adopt the Supreme Council's statement on the conflict that has recently taken place in Kosovo and Metohija? Please vote. [[13:11:19]] For 131 It's off the question. It'd be 200, you can do it again. The draft Law on the Legalization of Income and Property, of which taxes have not been paid, is heard. We have three bills - 3228, 3228-2 and 4003. I invite you to report to Bill No. 3228 of the People's Deputy Bondarchuk Sergio Vasilovich. You don't? Yes, the next draft 3228-2, the President's bill, will be reported by the Deputy Minister of Finance of Kopilov Vadim Anatoliyovich. Please, Vadim Anatoliyovich, try to bet in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, on the one hand, in the shadow sector of Ukraine, and on the other, outside Ukraine, there are significant capitals and incomes that can significantly increase the level of legal capitalisation of Ukraine's economy. So to be a financial support for further qualitative changes in the country's economy, and its structure, and to ensure a stable growth rate for a long term. With a view to solving this problem and involving shadow money in the real economy of the state, completing credit resources, and improving the investment climate of the President of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine has been introduced into the Supreme Council as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Law on Legalization of the Income of Persons with Unpaid Taxes, Budgets and State Trust Funds. The adoption of this law will introduce a mechanism for legalizing the income of natural persons, money and assets, which are not paid by the law of Ukraine, congregations to budgets and state-owned trust funds. Legalization is expected to be carried out through voluntary declaration by natural persons or their legal representatives of appropriate objects and the payment of government duties at a rate of 10 percent of the value of legalization objects located in and outside Ukraine. It is mandatory to legalize the funds by transferring them or making them legal during the legalization period for current or investment accounts in the banks of Ukraine. In doing so, it is guaranteed to keep a secret about the legalization entities, their current and investment accounts, opened in any bank in Ukraine and other information contained in the statement on the legalization of income. A significant incentive to participate in the legalization of income will be provided in the bill of exemption from criminal liability for evasion of taxes, congregations, compulsory payments, and administrative responsibility for avoiding the application of a legalized income declaration. Responsibilities for breach of tax legislation on legalized objects and for providing information on sources of income. At the same time, it should be emphasized that the task of involving in the official sector of the shadow economy and capital economy should not in any case mean the creation of opportunities for legalizing criminal capital and income derived from illegal activities. Legalisation, carried out in accordance with the law, is expected to create preconditions for the return of funds and assets to Ukraine, as well as for the inclusion in the Ukrainian banking system of the costs of natural persons held in foreign banks, of additional domestic investments in the national production of competitive products. At the same time, we consider it necessary to make the following proposals to this bill. First, in the last paragraph of article 1 of the bill, the words "not paid by the legislation of Ukraine of taxes" should be replaced by words for which.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u133	Please continue. Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u134	which are not included in Ukraine's tax legislation because, at the same time, the legalization of income is actually going to result in a tax write-off from legal income. And secondly, considering that the declaration of the income of natural persons received in 2003 was completed on April 1, 2004, we propose to amend the bill on the beginning of the legalization period, namely, in paragraph 1 of the third article, the word "first of March 2004" should be replaced by the words "first of July 2004". I would like to support this bill, taking into account the amendments that have been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u135	Thank you, Vadim Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Bill No. 4003 will report to the committee's deputy head, together with an opinion on these bills to the Committee on Finance and Banking, Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee, the opinion of the committee on the two bills is 3228-2, submitted by the President, and 4003, which is developed by the national deputies Teryochin, Burjak, Kaputsin, Kalichenko, Tsusko, Galijev and Svetash. The committee considered a bill submitted by the President and notes that the bill aims to involve shadow money in the real economy of the State, to replenish credit resources, to improve the investment climate. And the introduction of this law, according to the legal entity of the legislative initiative, will create a mechanism for legalizing the incomes of physical persons, financial assets, securities from which tax laws, congregations, and compulsory payments are not paid. At the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the project can be adopted on the basis of their comments and suggestions. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an approved draft law on the basis of which it had submitted a draft decision. With regard to Law 4003, which was submitted by the people’s deputies, I would like to point out that, unlike the Presidential Bill, it does not provide for mandatory imports of funds into Ukraine, but foresees rules for the legalization and declaration of such funds in order to allow us to have a future increase in capital on this basis taxed according to general principles. And the introduction of any taxation of assets that are to be imported into Ukraine is, in our view, underperforming, because today there is a mass of various avoidance schemes that cost up to five percent of the amount of capital laundering. And that's why we don't think there's going to be any incentive to legalize the capital when it's taxed in the back. So there's a request on behalf of the committee to also support 4003 in the first reading, and to work with the Cabinet of Ministers to make one out of these two projects, namely the Presidential and 4003, taking good standards from one project, from the other, rejecting what will not work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u137	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Have a seat. Please. From the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the head of the Stretovich Vladimir Mikolaiovich Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies! These bills are about the registration bill 2228, 2228-2, proposed for exclusive single legalization by natural persons of income from which taxes have not been paid, as well as the legalization of property objects located outside the customs border of Ukraine and obtained by violating monetary regulations. According to the authors, the adoption of the bill will lead to improved investment climate, business development, the inclusion of shadow money and the replenishment of credit resources, and the targeting of them into the real economy. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of March 27, made a number of important observations and suggestions and, in line with this conclusion, a bill on the results of the first reading should be sent for work on re-reading. However, a number of provisions of this bill conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 41 on the right of a citizen to own, use, manage his property, as well as the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine, and so forth. Proposals for legalization of property objects that are outside the customs border and have been acquired with foreign exchange rights violations, this is a second draft article, which does not correspond to the bill, namely, the inclusion of financial funds in Ukraine’s economy. This is also true of the position that a person who legalizes his or her income may be entitled to a special national domestic loan. According to the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, the funds involved in the placement of the internal loan bonds form an internal government debt and will go to the State budget of Ukraine instead of investing in the real economy of the state. Thus, the provisions of the bill not only conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation, but also do not address the main objective of creating preconditions for the inclusion of additional financial resources in Ukraine's economy. The authors are not offered a mechanism that would make it attractive to return funds to Ukraine and their legalization and further preservation of legalized funds. Nor is the legal component of the matter properly resolved, namely, the release of legalized entities from criminal liability and the guarantee that they will not be prosecuted in the future with a view to criminal responsibility. Taking into account the comments and suggestions made and made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the committee at its meeting on 25 May 2003 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be rejected as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation. Please support this committee decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u139	Yes, please, dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Carmazine insists that there be others who sign up. And solomatin. Please, Karmazin, follow Solomon and Shurma, yes. And school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u140	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The bill on the legalization of the income of natural persons for whom taxes, assemblies, compulsory payments to budgets and state funds are not paid can be clearly determined that this bill on how to legalize stolen and removed property from Ukraine and Ukraine for all categories and categories of population, how to stop all criminal cases still under article 112, although under the 112th Criminal Code, which provides for criminal liability for tax evasion, matters are only directed at a political focus, i.e. not against all political forces. But people think about it: What happens after the presidential election, after October 31, 2004? Would it not be necessary to return everything and then to take the decisions of the courts: both factories and everything else that was illegally taken away? That's why these projects are being implemented, and this is the time. How does the President’s bill differ from that of 18 June 2003? And only by the date of introduction and greater guarantees. I believe that the bills -- neither one nor the other, nor the third -- are ready today for conceptual perception by the people of Ukraine. First. The other one. I think we need to take the world experience that has been used to combat this evil. In my opinion, I should take it, and I would ask that we introduce -- you see the President sometimes, I understand that he doesn't listen to anyone, I understand that he only listens to the clan-oligarchy group one, and the other listens to the tea at home sometimes, but takes the basis for the approach that is in the Federal Republic of Germany, which has decided on the tax amnesty. And let's talk about tax amnesty, not legalization. And they said to the Germans, "Everybody pay a tax of 25 percent of what's been exported and stolen." It is estimated that between 20 billion and 50 billion dollars have been exported. If this is not done, the tax will increase to 35 percent in a few months. Then the amnesty in Germany stops -- it's June 30th of this year -- and the tax authorities are hunting unscrupulous entrepreneurs and thieves. So, honourable national MPs, let's design a project on economic amnesty, and these projects need to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u141	Yes, a word. We're going by the record. Igor Šurma, please, then. Then Solomatin, then School. No, now Igor Shurma, then Solomonine. Yeah, here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u142	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] An effective amnesty of shadow capitals is a complex task that requires the development of a carefully based mechanism. Bills 3228, 4003 proposed are not perfect enough to solve this problem. The main factor in the company's success in operating capital into the legal economy is sufficient security assurances. In addition, effective tax amnesty can be carried out only through the systematic formation of clear and stable economic and, above all, fiscal laws and the general increase in confidence in society’s authority. At the same time, Bill 3228-2 needs to be viewed as a concept that needs to be substantially complemented between the first and the second readings. There is a need to bring to a new content a series of economic and, above all, fiscal and tax laws, legal acts on the basis of which currency regulation is made, and to make appropriate additions to the Criminal Code and other legislative acts of Ukraine. With regard to the amendments to the Criminal Code, it is necessary to state directly in the Code that entities of legalization that have legalized income are exempt from criminal liability for the avoidance of the return of proceeds in foreign currency, the illegal opening or use outside Ukraine of foreign currency accounts, and the avoidance of payment of taxes, assemblies and other payments, provided for in the relevant articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and administrative responsibility for the avoidance of the declaration of revenue, provided for in the relevant article of the Code on Administrative Offences. There is also a need for changes in the Criminal Code to protect the confidentiality of information within the legalization of capital. The position of the bill on the disclosure of information." [[continue by text]] It is necessary to specify the criminal and administrative responsibility of such officials and perhaps not just the officials but also the authorities. Of course, it would also be appropriate to introduce more stringent rules of responsibility for hiding income after the end of the period of amnesty. Without such systemic changes in legislation, the bill on the legalization of the income of natural persons from whom taxes are not paid is too schematic and does not provide for the introduction of business-based rules of the game. The shortcomings noted should not delay the legislative process regarding the legalization of shadow capitals in Ukraine. So the most appropriate thing, in our view, would be to adopt the proposed bill 3228-2 with the aim of thoroughly redrafting it in the first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u143	Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! When I was familiar with this bill, I mentioned the poems and the famous song by Vladimir Visoecki about where my black gun is. Can you rephrase it this way, "Where did my first million come from?" And now a one-time move is being proposed. We have a lot of different disposable uses, and it's going to be a one-time use. In order to somehow create the right conditions for these guys who hid a black gun and a black million somewhere, and to legalize and return all of this. I want to ask you, "Why is it only proposed to tax 10 percent of the value of an object or that money that is legalized, or not 13 percent of how tax is now paid? What about another interest rate? 20 or 25?" So let's talk about this thoroughly. If a person wants to keep his face before that nation in the loyalty to which he swears every day, including from this rostrum and beyond that rostrum. Let her repent in a normal way, not by 10 percent. What is this indulgence? As in his day the pope of Rome distributed indulgences, so did this law. What is this indulgence on behalf of Ukraine? I understand it might be from the President. May the President distribute such indulgences if he has authority. But we, the distinguished national electorate, if we really are, should not do so. Because we're going to lose our faces to the people, because the people have their own morals and their own vision of how these things should be handled. And a few more words. A commercial secret and the identity of the property owner who returns is guaranteed. Your Honor, what is this? We have more secrets than ever. The CCCR's top secret protocols? What did we live to see, what did we come to? Let us be legalized and not afraid of who it belongs to. And if we have secrets here, why do we need such a bourgeois state to hide from its own people those who stole the last part of the nation? Can this bill be adopted as a basis? No, you can't take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u145	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u146	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Of course, when it comes to legalizing income for property that does not pay taxes. In a word, capital amnesty, as it was said, is the very concept of amnesty, and the legalization of income is a positive substance. But I'd like to take a closer look. Well, actually, there's a positive here that the negative that hidden underwater stones are in every bill. Of course, none of them should even be accepted on a basis, because the projects presented here are indeed of a one-time nature. Here are, for example, all the funds under any circumstances that were exported and transferred outside Ukraine by Ukrainian citizens made during 1991-2003. How to determine the years when the funds were transferred, if they were transferred from Ukrainian companies to their own companies in offshore areas. So here's the question of calculation, the cost of calculation, the time of their transfer is relative enough. How, in which laboratories, when the funds were transferred. It is now possible to privatize the “Cruvoristal” and with the help of these bills to legalize their funds, to say, hey, maybe there were some legalization issues there and there were, but the money now, I paid 10 percent, they became legal. Privatization may have been illegal, otherwise, and the sale of illegally legalized objects is legal because I have declared, shown, and offered. You know, it's an internal law, I'd say, a family law. From him is the family comfort of a family now in charge of Ukraine. And in terms of what they're comfortable with, well, of course, but will it be convenient for those who vote for this bill? Those coins, compared to what they have that you legalize with this bill, are nothing compared to what the Ukrainian state will lose, because there are a lot of money that will be legalized by this law. It will be possible to return without 10 percent, without legalization, and with the help of the courts and prosecutors, it will be absolutely fair, legally and without legal consequences. Therefore, there is no positive reason to vote in favour of these bills. There are no sources to verify that the Henprocurator receives the funds, although Article 2 prohibits such a procedure. Because in principle, this might be, you know, a two-pronged bill. Some legalize, while others, by means of this Law 3203 of the MP, can verify the legality or illegality of obtaining illegal funds, which in general contradicts all concepts and norms and laws and morals and whatever else. That's why I'm stressing. The notion of legalization is that amnesty is one desire -- stolen, illegally used to betray as something that has the right not just to be declared, but yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u147	On the grounds. I see. Yavorowski, Gournik and Mironenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski. Since Adam Ivanovich has deprived me of words, I want to introduce these two. First. We're a very dangerous society in the relationship that we have 90 percent of the people who are illuminated, and we have about 10 percent of the short-lived people who have taken the biggest piece of the government pie. We don't have a middle class, and this is a dangerous society. The other one. Even the best bill of Teryochina that is here does not exhaust this subject. I am convinced that the best thing in Ukraine will solve the problem of the return of capital and thus the same way Saakashvili did. We just have to take his presidential decree, as he did, in a few months, the Georgian budget received four full budgets. Take this decree, translate it into Ukrainian, and in November months do the same for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u149	Eugene Gorenik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u150	First of all, I want to protest that Adam Ivanovich is setting his rules. And secondly, I want to say that in general, Ukrainian society, according to socializations in general, positively appreciates the idea of legalization of income, of socialization of 61 percent. And it has had its effect in developed democracy, where taxation was quite high, and in Kazakhstan, where the Nazarbayeva clan, other boai have legitimized more than $500 million. But in Kazakhstan, the authoritarian regime, and in 12 years, we've moved to that economy in the shadow where there's now more than 50 percent, and for which we've been given adequate deductions in amounts far greater than 2.5 percent or even 10 percent. Lazarenko said 50 over 50. So most of these people think they've already paid their taxes or off. And our legislation allows us to legalize any income completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u151	Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u152	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. More recently, a bill was put to the vote by the leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Petar Nikolaevich Simonenka, prohibiting the raising of prices for bread products, but did not vote on capitalist factions. I am now very afraid that these factions will vote in favour of this bill because it has helped, in this situation, helped steal, bypass the State. If this bill, one of which will be adopted, means that they will continue to hide their income and continue to incur the people. And I would ask all conscious MPs who are not millionaires to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I appeal to the distinguished deputies of Jaborovsky and Gournik! Please take the Rule, see article 3.3 on page 26. 8. Part Two: "In the absence of a deputy at the time of giving him the floor, he is considered to have refused." You weren't in the session room at the time, they showed up, they got you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u155	Yes, Yavorowski, a replica. And please, then, the closing word of Teryochin. Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u156	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are right that the MP is absent, of course, but his shadow cannot stand in his place. But, reverend Adam Ivanovich, you are then some or glasses special take, or, well, you have no right to determine for yourself whether or not there is. I can look you in the eye, you can't see me. That is not the reason. The incident is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u157	Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't yell, uncle, so loud! I repeat the position of the committee that I reported is to accept 3228-2, Presidential, 4003 in the first reading. Then make something out of them. But I can tell you this is not a committee position, but my personal position is 3228-2, Presidential, it's a bill to legalize big sums for big business, 4003 is a parliamentary bill to protect Ukrainian ostriches, those people who make money with their jobs, and then they have to take them across the border and bribe customs to import these funds. However, once again, it's my personal opinion: I believe that any legalization or any amnesty can be carried out solely by honest and proper authority. That's why I think it's not the right thing to do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u159	Yes, Your Honor, may I have your attention, we will now vote for adoption on the basis of the bill. The first is Bill 3228, author of the Bondarchuk People's Deputy. This is a draft law on the legalization of income and property from which taxes are not paid. [[13:41:45]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the second one is the 3228-2 voter, the Presidential one. This is a draft law on the legalization of the income of natural persons, which does not pay taxes, congregations, compulsory payments to budgets, and government trust funds. On the ground, please vote. [[13:42:30.]] For 171 The decision is not taken. Third project. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" is 0. "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 37, Deminitives, People's Government - 0, Hard Ukraine - 29, People's Agrarian - 20, SPU - 0, Timoshenko - 0, Alliance - 11, NDP and industrialists and entrepreneurs - 11, Centre - 0, Postfaction - 6. We voted, I told you. Listen carefully, please! It's as national as you are in the right way, it's similar. Dear colleagues, the draft 4003 is a draft of the Amnesty Tax Act. The authors are a group of national deputies: Terjehochin, Burjak, Kaputzin, Kalichenko, Tsusko, Galijev, Světoš. To be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[13:44:00]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Honorable colleagues may then put on a rereading of the project that gained the most votes. Is there no objection? Calm down, please! I am voting for the re-reading of the draft Law on Legalization of the Income of Individuals, of which taxes, congregations, mandatory payments to budgets and government trust funds have not been paid. Registration number 3228-2. Presidential project. Please vote. To read again. [[13:44:47]] For-179 Bills are rejected. Announcing the draft Law establishing a temporary special order for the return of natural persons to Ukraine of funds is under review. Reporter, please, Leonid Mikhailovich. Prepare Terhochina.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u160	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Darnicke constituency, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. I want to tell you that it's very strange that the House didn't support drafts like mine, but I've passed my bill before, and I'm happy that it's found its continuation in both the President's Bill and other deserving people and Mr. Terehin's. The bill is clearly needed because there are no assessments of the property status of officials in Ukraine today. Money is mostly government officials because they are the richest people in Ukraine, here. And it's very strange that we don't want money without interest to come back to Ukraine without obstacles. In Kazakhstan, when President Nazarbaev was arrested 50 million dollars in Switzerland, such a bill immediately appeared and was voted in the Supreme Council. And I'll tell you, instead of 50 million, the country's got another 500 million and it's still working. That's interesting, the fact. Here. Because you'll see, no one. Even in Russia, it was decided that those in power should declare their income somehow. We don't have a declaration, nothing like that. People who have an income of 1 bracelet per year fly planes. Why don't we solve this problem, increase the criminal responsibility for not paying taxes and take it at the same time. Legalize what's already been removed. No one would believe any preconditions laid down in any of the bills. People who expect us to make decisions today, they need to eat today, they need to keep them, they need to pay their pensions. This is about tens of billions of dollars. Vote in favour of this bill, they will immediately appear for several months in different accounts and under different pretexts. And no one will have a problem. And then we start a new life. Because we're all being honest today. Right? But then we can at least demand it. Look, not a single criminal case, not a single bailout for the export of capital, have they? Nothing like that ever happened. Let us address this issue. And let our grandparents get that money. And those who listen to our broadcast will call their parents to the elderly. It's very important, too, except for the money. Vote, good law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u161	Thank you for your agitation. Please, Sergey Terjohin from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! I'll be as concise as the lead reporter. The committee has considered this issue and recommends that it be considered in the drafting of a rejected presidential bill. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u163	Thank you. Who insists on the word? Carmazine. Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! In my opinion, Leonidas Chernewsky's very good wishes, he somehow wants to get the money involved and bring it back here, but in my opinion, the bill isn't worked out enough. And even his argument that the President of Kazakhstan was arrested 50 million dollars in Switzerland, and immediately Kazakhstan adopted the bill -- it's not a convincing moment, given, in particular, that if you ask that question about our President's family, there's already a dozen billion people out there. Hence, it may not be entirely appropriate for us to do so. The bill states that it does not extend to imports of funds and material values into Ukraine that are determined by the court to be their origins as a result of such crimes: trafficking in human beings or other human transfer agreements; crime in the field of drug trafficking, their analogues or precursors; deliberate murder; and terrorist acts. And the tax evasion, which is actually the same theft, and the theft is particularly large and smuggling? There's nothing to it. So, anyway, Leonid Mikhailovich, and you're getting up to the question that you have to decide somehow with criminal responsibility what to do. And there is no answer to that question. At the same time, the bill has a positive effect. Chernewsky writes that the money that comes back has to be earned. How can we determine that they are made? To do this, we need to set up a mechanism and examine it. How can you do so? What are the criteria, what do they mean? Or is it made up of 50 billion people who are believed to have between 30 and 40 percent of government officials abroad who have received a modest salary? That's why I think that in this case, the committee that Teriöchin's opinion has now reported has made a perfectly fair decision that this law, although it was introduced by a member of our faction "Our Ukraine", should be rejected and worked on these draft laws along with the Presidential laws that you have seen, even the factions of the so-called parliamentary-government coalition do not support because they understand that it is anti-national and that the thief is no longer considered a thief. Thank you. I'm against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u165	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u166	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, our constituencies. I want to bow my head to the Chernewsky. Look at how many loving laws he makes, and they don't go through anything. Well, why are you people that you don't want to take one law to pass it? They are, indeed, all of them have some soul, some justice. Leonid, thank you. Keep working. I think someone's gonna get away with it. The second question. The issue of the return of money stolen from the people has been plentiful in our society for a long time. In fact, since they started stealing. And that's not a new topic. For example, it was decided by the Poles. He accepted two decrees for the money to flow to Poland. But he did it immediately after their so-called democratic revolution. There were two orders. The first one said so. If you're returning the money and you can declare it, use it yourself. There's no claim here in Poland. If you are unable to declare them, the government uses them for a year and they return them to you in a year. Something similar may have to be done with us. But the subject did not go away. I'm absolutely convinced that the money that's been stolen, the big money, I mean, it's long ago hidden, over-concealed, and there's nothing our legislation can do about it. I recently performed in the center of Alexandrovka, Kyrovograd district, and a grandmother, about 80 years old, asked me. He says, well, I know you're going to win Victor Yushchenko's election, but tell me what you're going to do first, what are you going to do first? For one second, I was a little confused, and I think I should tell her we're going to have a drink, like it's not working out. And she said, "First thing you do, cover up the airport so they don't run away." That's very clear, people's wisdom. Because, I conclude, I am convinced that no one will vote for this law, including me, because who will do it today by the President's Administration with Rafal and Bears. By the way, I'd like to call this last name Rafalski, too. The department of internal politics, the great scientist who was debasing the money during the presidential elections, this social protection fund, he was daily, imagine, engaged in the pogrom of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers. Mr. Rafalski, your name will be included in the history of Ukrainian literature, but in what letters you will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u167	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the bill of the Ukrainian National MP, our colleague, a banker who is right about what and where and how and why he is very interesting, but he has an internal contradiction. And I just want to emphasize one of these contradictions. It is stated that in order for the funds and material values imported into Ukraine to be not checked by law enforcement authorities for their origin, they must be earned. But the fact that money or property is received by means of earning can only be established by checking. In addition, there are no defined criteria that need to be guided by the allocation of capital to those that are earned or not earned. Well, there are some other observations of this content that can be continued. But I want to give a political and class evaluation of this bill. A colleague stressed that tens of billions should return after such a bill was adopted. Let us consider with you how many of those who are with us, and who, my beloved and destitute people of Ukraine, are constantly choosing for the council and councils of all levels? How long did they rob you, my people? We have a lot of special and temporary and permanent commissions, and a lot of laws to fight crime. That's all there is to it. What should I do, in my view, to make it so? The Soviet authorities need to be reinstated, the famous authorities known as the OPCSS must be established, and that is when they are all of these criminals who are trying to renew their right at the legislative level or legalize their right to be held liable. I understand you, many of my colleagues, don't like it. Let's use the Chinese version when the criminal, the mayor of Shanghai, stole a few billion dollars, publicly, publicly, yes, to call to account and show it on television screens. So I want to say, regardless of political preferences, everyone has to earn it in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u169	Yes, dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. I'm voting on the proposal. Here's a suggestion to send for work. But first we vote for adoption as the basis of the draft law. So I'm voting for adoption on the basis of a draft law establishing a temporary special order for the return of natural persons to Ukraine of funds. Registration number 3203. [[13:59:25]] For -6 The decision is not taken. There is a proposal for a committee to be sent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is to refer to re-reading. I'm putting this motion to the committee for a vote. We continue our work for 15 minutes. [[13:59:58]] For the 10th. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider draft Law 4190-1, but since the author and the reporter are sick, there's an appropriate reference, we're taking it down. We have yet to consider another draft law in order to carry out what is scheduled for today. A draft law on the All-U.S. State Compensation Fund is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4460. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. Peter Stepanovich, please, your report. Well, then maybe we'll take a look, and then we'll work it out, not vote it out, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u170	Vladimir Mihajlovich, if I may, I suggest we discuss the document today, which is to postpone the vote to tomorrow, because it is a very important document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u171	Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! A group of Ukrainian National Deputies, taking into account the extraordinary severity of the problem of the return of savings to Ukrainian citizens, and this is a group of Communist factions composed of Simonek Petar Mikolaiovich, Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich, Tkachenko Aleksandra Mikolaiovic and me, introduced the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Compensation Fund. I think we all know and realize that there is no more pressing problem in society today than the problem of the return of Ukrainian citizens' savings. At the time of the adoption of the Savings Act, there were 132 billion government guarantees for the return of savings on Ukrainian savings books. That's right. We have to say that in the period between 1997 and 2003, of these 132 billion, unfortunately, only one billion 460 million were returned. This would take 627 years to predict the rate of return. Of course, no one will expect these savings to come back if the rate of return is exactly that. That's why we went a slightly different way by introducing in principle another draft document, a draft law. What is the difference? If previous draft laws, or amendments to the Law on State Guarantees, were generally about the need for return and return mechanisms, then the money of this law was that it offered not only the mechanisms of return, terms and other moments, but it was about the mechanisms of creation, the accumulation of those funds that could be the basis for the return of savings to the citizens of Ukraine. The point is that specific mechanisms have been proposed to raise funds for the return of Ukrainian citizens. What we're talking about is that this is about planning every year, one percent of the State budget is planning to be included in that state fund for the return of savings, and 70 percent of the funds received from the privatization of enterprises are going to be sent to this state fund, and it's about contributing to the funds of the stated fund one percent of the money from the sale of the currency, and also three percent of the sales of luxury items that are sold in the state. All of this combined will provide an opportunity to accumulate and use annually to return to the citizens of Ukraine, as a minimum, five billion dollars or seven billion dollars to solve this problem. Of course it's a problem. The prescribed law is able to eliminate the problem to a large extent and in much shorter times to solve the problem, which is one of the most painful in our society. And so given that 80-90 percent of all savings are small savings of 2-3 thousand dollars, I think it's just a step in the right direction to solve this extremely painful and acute problem. I'd like to ask my colleagues when we make decisions on this bill, to support them. His vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u173	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. From the committee. Bondarchuk. Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u174	Dear President, the People's Deputies! Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. On 17 March, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour considered the bill proposed by the People's Deputies Simonenko, Gurenko, Tkachenko and Cibenko on the State Compensation Fund and decided to recommend that the bill be adopted by the Supreme Ade on first reading. Despite some of the shortcomings of the bill, which are noted in the report of the Chief Scientific and Expert Division of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these shortcomings relate mainly to the structure of the fund and, in their view, to insufficient mechanisms for the transfer of funds from the regional offices to the central offices. We believe that these issues can be addressed on second reading. The Committee, taking into account the positive content of the bill, nevertheless proposes that it be adopted. What are these positive new approaches to solving this complex problem that has arisen in our country in connection with the disappearance of 132 billion bracelets if we convert to the current currency? How do you get them back? It is proposed that the only source from which these contributions are now being paid is from the State budget of some 500 million bracelets. What is with the 500 million bracelets so far? It's every depositor can get 50 bracelets within a year. In fact, such amounts are payable to investors. These 50 bracelets, you know, at this rate it takes more than 500 years to pay. Under the new bill, this source is added to the following sources of return: 70 per cent of the sale of enterprises from privatization that are coming; 1 per cent of the purchase of currency; 3 per cent of the expensive purchases: gold, gold products, expensive cars. I would like to refer in particular to the paragraph “the means of privatization”. It is clear that the funds of investors have disappeared largely because many of our factories have been removed from public property. Both formerly or to the income of these public enterprises have allowed the transfer of funds to investors. Money has disappeared along with the disappearance of factories. That is why we propose means of privatization to send for compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Do we need to discuss this bill? Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine. Of course, the draft laws relating to the return of savings are of great concern to our citizens, because the debt of the state from the return of the valueless savings of citizens was set at 131.96 billion dollars. It's a colossal money, and it's what we set up with you on November 21, 1996 in the Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. As far as this law is concerned, I believe that this cannot be considered without the laws passed by the late Michael Pavlovsky. [[His Kingdom Is Heavenly]] As early as January 13, 2003, he and Julia Timoshenko passed a law on the return of savings to the population of Ukraine. Along with the Act on Amendments to the Law on State Guarantees for Savings Restoration, which was introduced by the National Deputy of Seminouk, and a number of other laws that had already been enacted. The consideration of just one of these laws, because it's about creating a State Compensation Fund, in my opinion, is not justified. You should have done it. You should have looked at it. And I'd like to hear here the position of the government, the specific position of the Communist faction, specifically Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka in negotiations with the Russian Federation on the return of Ukraine's share, on the return of the diamond fund, on the return of the gold fund. We know that in the Russian Federation today, this fund is being filled, especially after the price hike for Ukrainian fools is now 60 percent in all oil refineries, because 85 percent today belongs to Russia. Let's call things our names. You and I didn't ratify. The issue of return is related to the issue of agreements under the Russian Federation. Our President is proud that he meets in ties and ties with the President of the Russian Federation Putin 8-9 times a year. At least once the question was raised? Our young prime minister, a young candidate for Presidential Janukovic, has once asked these questions, which are of no interest to the state of Ukraine. Instead, it's proposed, and let's build a fund. Let me vote for this fund, let's just think about it so it doesn't go the way it's written so far. Because so far, we don't know what accounts the structural units create at the expense of the budget to support this fund, and most of it to fund at the expense of the budget, because even with the cost of privatization, it's also the budget. And you're 70 percent suggesting you go there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there still a need to discuss this issue? Well, briefly, if you'll excuse me. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is how I understood my colleague Carmazin, he agrees that the disputes that are today between Ukraine and the Russian Federation should end, we should renew the Soviet Union and instead of Kuchma, and instead of Putin, we should put in these chairs the official representatives of the Communist parties themselves. Then there will be no such mess in Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. Well, at least if the majority doesn't agree, then at least establish the relationships that are foreseen in the single economic space. Then these questions will be resolved, and there will be no speculation about who has been more to blame since the Soviet Union. But to the Ukrainian Compensation Fund, it's clear that I support this idea and I want to propose another source of funding for this fund. Let's draw our attention to the nerve and the use. We know you're in Russia. Dear colleague Carmazin. You're stopping me from speaking. In Russia, at least all the billionaires, all the parts that have become so national as to be Russian elites, have become rich in oil and gas. We have, as President Kuchma Leonid Danilovich has publicly stated, all of the largest assets in Ukraine that are, they have also emerged from the oil pipeline at the price difference between those purchased there in Russia and those sold in Ukraine. If our ordinary average Ukrainian boat rides to Turkey and makes a difference in price, that's where our modern famous individuals, who are already under investigation, and who are behind bars, and without bars, made their possessions. But all of this is national, it belongs to our people. So I want to make this proposal so that it's carefully worked out and that's the question. All of these payments, which are for drug use, are, in a sense, 30 percent, maybe 50 percent went to this compensation fund. Example? Please. Libyan People's Arab Socialist Jamagiria -- 50 per cent of the drug use for the development of an investment geological exploration and mineral raw materials base -- and 50 per cent is distributed among every living person, among every citizen of this country. The same is true of other lands that have rich temperaments. So let's support this bill and fill out the sources of filling in the proceeds of drug use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-16-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the draft law on the Ukrainian State Compensation Fund, registration number 4460, has been completed. By your permission, we will make a decision tomorrow, obviously on this matter. Dear colleagues, please listen to another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Musiyaki Viktor Lavrentiyovich from the MP's "Region of Ukraine". Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 3 p.m., economic hearings. Sorry, parliamentary hearings from economic problems and committee meetings. Tomorrow we'll continue our work according to plan for Thursday.
