ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:14]] Registered -429 Registered in the 429 National Deputies Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Gorbal Vasil Mikhailovich and Chikal Adam Vasilovich. Let us welcome them, wish them success and good health. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of Ukrainian national deputies Dobkin Mikhail Markovich and Karatumanov Oleg Juriovich from the Democratic Initiatives Group. It's a motive matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u2	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you, we've been looking at my application Tuesday, and we've given an order to find out what's going on with the law enforcement authorities today. Zinchenko was assigned a commission to visit Ternopol. There is a request, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to give a commission on behalf of the Supreme Council today to put an end to all persecution there until this commission comes out and finishes its work. After all, like all the other problems, it's about passing laws that will remove this problem. Unfortunately, the Budget Committee and the Committee on Banking and Financial Affairs have never fulfilled your mandate. I ask you to do so immediately as the tension with the local authorities increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u3	I ask Alexander Zinchenko, who deals with these issues, to contact the relevant authorities, to reconcile the problem, and the Committees on Budget, Finance and Banking ask to expedite the consideration of this document. Ladies and gentlemen, three minutes to log in, because I can see it will be endless. Three minutes, report for procedure. On the board, please. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Here, the first two questions are. You know that two Ukrainians and three Ukrainians were injured after the attack in Spain. I would like your commission to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to clarify fate and so forth. Because our beloved Ministry of Foreign Affairs has only given itself the opportunity to know what happened there. And the fate of the people, the fate of their families here in Ukraine and so forth. Because our Ukrainians are still lawless outside Ukraine, and there are problems in the matter of burials and so forth. That's why I'd like to have your committee's commission in foreign affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u5	I ask Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski to prepare appropriate written information for the Supreme Council on this matter. Galina Harmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u7	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u8	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have the President's Election Act on today's announcement. And in the political covenant it was written that we first voted in the entire Law on Elections of People’s Deputies and then the Law on Elections of the President. The law after the election of the national deputies is a table for the second reading, and we are ready to report. Some of the national deputies make special amendments in order to allow us to consider for six hours. After all, I propose to stick to the political agreement and to vote in turn on the Law on the Election of People's Deputies, then on the election of the President. Otherwise, there will be claims against those who do not adhere to one or the other agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, dear colleague, we go according to the political agreement. They considered and adopted the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies. I understand that you're asking questions so that we don't adopt the Presidential Election Act as a whole today, read the queues. You want us to do it. And please don't push me to violate the Rules and the right of national deputies to make their amendments. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u10	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Vlalimir Mihajlović, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko of the Communist factions, proposed to take a decision by the Supreme Council to withdraw our troops from Iraq. And today, this issue is very relevant. You see what is happening in the world, the continuous terrorist attacks in Spain, in Turkey, we are indeed with fire. The decision itself was wrong. The entire people of Ukraine are outraged by this decision, indignant at the sending of troops to Iraq. 20 figures across Ukraine will be protested against Ukraine's participation in the war against Iraq. And here, in Kiev, on the 20th at 12 o'clock, the action will be held itself. Let us support the demand of the people of Ukraine, let us take a decision from the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the committee will give us a proper submission, then we will determine when the relevant documents from the committee are available. Please, Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u12	Victor Pinzenik, is it? You don't have to. Let Victor Pinzenic pass it on himself. National deputy of Sithina, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u13	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u14	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as far as I'm concerned, the question of consideration today, as was the case with previous colleagues, you said correctly, should follow procedure. And let's see, we don't have to stay here. Many questions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have a meeting schedule for Thursday. The first question we have is the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Dear colleagues, on March 10 and 17, 2004, the Central Election Commission recognized and registered Vasiliev Andriyovich as the national deputy of Ukraine elected to the mid-term elections on March 7, 2004 in the one-man election district number 61, Donetsk Region, and Chichov Valery Mikhajlovich as the national deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 31, 2004, in a multi-mandatory national constituency constituency from the electoral bloc of political parties, the election bloc of Yulia Timoshenko. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. As part of an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasiliev Alexander Andriyovich, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u16	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u17	Yes, welcome. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Valeriy Mihajlovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u18	I pledge allegiance to Ukraine, pledge to defend Ukraine's sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine's country and the well-being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u19	Welcome. A draft Decision on the termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Election Commission of Plastinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Dear Alexander Viktorovich. Please, Alexandre Viktorovich. Oh, there'll be one report from the committee. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let me inform you that yesterday, the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed at its meeting draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Election Commission of Mr. Zaplański and the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of Mr. Dubovic, introduced by the President of Ukraine. In considering this issue, the committee assigned me, on behalf of the committee, to draw the following conclusions and to inform you. First of all, the committee believes that there is some legal inadequacy in the submission of documents. The point is that Mr. Plaštinsky has formulated his application for discharge, while the law requires "to terminate the term of office." We agreed that this was not an extremely principled question. But we consider it necessary to pay attention to both the President and to draw the attention of the Central Electoral Commission to such legal inadequacy and some inadequacy. On the other hand, the committee believes that the draft decree introduced by the President refers to the dismissal of Mr. Zaplatinski's mandate. While it would be worth writing about the permanent termination of Mr. Zaplatinski’s authority. In this position, the committee has proposed and elaborated a draft decision. If there's no objection from the President, add one word: "early termination." And the last. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to inform the Supreme Council that the Committee believes that the faction of the SDPU(s) under which Zaplatinski's candidacy has been presented has not been entirely fair to its recommendation, because two weeks after the appointment, we are considering the issue of exemption. Once again, this faction left a quota behind. I think it would be wise to turn the management of all factions to the most serious attitude regarding the recommendation of a given fraction of its candidates for a given position. Taking all this into account, the committee suggests that the matter be considered on a timely basis and, if so, that the decision be made in an appropriate manner regarding the appointment of Plastaltinski and Dubovic. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u21	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Alexander Viktorovich Zadrodzny, Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u22	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine is bringing to your attention a draft decree of 5261 requesting that a member of the Central Election Commission of Plastinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich be suspended in accordance with his application. I have a commission to consider accepting the committee’s proposal to terminate the mandate in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u23	Is there a question? Just a minute. Question, Alexandre Viktorovich. Please sign up. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u24	I have a question for you. On the Self-Government Committee, it was decided that the President should be approached in a more qualitative manner with regard to the selection of candidates for these high posts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u25	Thank you. The relevant information has been transmitted to the President, but the President is coming out in exercise of his powers under constitutional rules and that every national MP is sufficiently prepared to represent the interests of a political power, the entire nation of the state, in the CBC. After appointing or appointing a national deputy to Ukraine, the President came out accordingly. Since the situation of this national MP has changed, the President has no bearing on these circumstances. But this will be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u26	Taras Cranville, non-factional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u27	Dear reporter! Still, it does matter to us what the motives for such sudden resignation were, in fact, less than 10 days after the appointment. We're guessing that it was a trade that was then not satisfied with the CBC itself. But it's too high a position, too high and serious an organization for the state to play similar intrigues with the individual deputies of our Supreme Council from the newly elected members of the CLTC. We'd like to know if you have any information on the motives that led to Mr. Plastinski's resignation?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Reverend Taras Viachelavovich. I don't have that information. I'm leaving the formal side of the case. There's an appropriate statement, and I don't think it was the President's job to get involved. In this case, he exercises constitutional powers. There's a statement. I know that there has been an appropriate conversation, and this request has been documented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u29	Stepan Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u30	Stepan Bulba, PPE faction. Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u31	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u32	Dear National Deputies! Dear reporter! That's my question. Still, you support my claim that when I spoke last time, Plaštinsky was obviously not ready for a high mission like that of a CBC member. And where the guarantees that the SDPU did not once again send a sent-away Cossack who, after a month without a high office, will again not be in charge. I would like to hear assurances that he will do what is right, not pursue his ambitions, but be a neutral and objective member of the CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, your question is more rhetorical, because it is to a large extent not to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u34	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear reporter, I would like to continue with the question of the previous speaker. Tell me, if the person who went there, to the Central Electoral Commission, was delegated there by the Supreme Council, then its appeal is now, believe me, a humiliation of the authority of the Supreme Council, a humiliation of the Central Electoral Commission. And when you don't need this quota, I'm asking you to give this quota to the Yulia Tymoshenko block. Believe me, the delegate there will do his duties honestly, conscientiously. That's it. Or sell the quota to those other political forces who would not delegate there, who, if not given the bone, would go back, but to honest and conscientious people, because the faction of such people is basically a disgrace to both the Supreme Council and the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. You don't have a question. You have a speech. I could have warned you about this: because, in any case, the President's application, and in this case, the submission of the term of office is based on the citizen's personal claims. The president had no other option but to file an application for early termination.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u38	But it's not the President's question, it's the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u39	Thank you. Yes, time's up, thank you. Alexander Viktorovich, thank you. I'm putting to the vote a bill of order introduced by the committee. Registration number 5261-d on the permanent termination of the terms of office of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Please vote. [[10:20:12]] For 324 Decision taken. A draft Decision appointing a member of the Central Electoral Commission shall be announced for consideration. [[Dubovica Sergio Olegovich]] Alexander Viktorovich The Road, please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u40	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The President of Ukraine is submitting to the Supreme Council a draft decree registered in the Supreme Council at number 5262. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint a member of the Central Election Commission, Mr Sergio Olegovich. The relevant documents are also presented on the committee yesterday, and please support this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u41	Have a seat, please. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, position of the committee, please. Excuse me, questions, please. Well, you didn't say. Please sign up. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Light up, please. Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u42	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", People's Movement. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u43	Jaroslav Kenzior. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u44	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenk's faction "Our Ukraine". First of all, I think it's necessary for the previous very short term member of the Central Electoral Commission to go to the rostrum and apologize to the Supreme Council for the adventure he had brought to the Supreme Council. Secondly, do you know when the faction of SDPU(o) is playing out like this, where today is the guarantee that this same two weeks is not going to happen, and some circumstances are going to make him leave this position?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u45	Thank you, Reverend Jaroslav Vasilovich. To a large extent, this is not a question for me. As far as professional, professional, I emphasize, the requirements for a candidate for the Central Electoral Commission, to the extent that this was provided for by my public commission, I checked them. Sergey Olegovich has appropriate education, and Sergey Olegovich has experience in the local authorities. You see, he's a deputy, and I think he might be recommended for election. That's what I said to the President of Ukraine. Anything else you decide about the report before and so do the requirements of the next candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u46	Taras Cranville. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Alexander, don't you think that we have dropped the very meaning of the Supreme Council in our approach to the appointment of the members of the CLTC? Cultural arrangements, interfractional arrangements, some quotas take precedence over the very importance of this organization, which is supposed to be over politics, over parties, over representations. And the man who worked, his work, was a lawyer. At the firm and the Consumer Rights Society, and an assistant, a national deputy, I think it's a little bit of a service list for a person who should actually be responsible for the future of the state. Because CEC is an election, it's very serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Tarasse Viacheslavovich, as recommended now for election and appointment by the Supreme Council, I am a lawyer and a lawyer in my previous life. And I want to tell you that all of this life can't be replicated in autobiography and so on. And the experience gained by the lawyer and the lawyer is a little bit different, it's not being formalized. I know Sergey Olegovich as a very professional lawyer, and that's impossible to recreate in autobiography. That is why, including recommending this person for election to the CLTC, knowing that he is a professional lawyer above all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u49	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u50	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich. Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Viktorovich, I'm sorry, I crossed you. We understand that the Central Election Commission is a body that is relying on extremely important functions of monitoring the correctness of election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President and so forth. But I'll have two questions. First. Please say it is not directly linked, as we increase the responsibility not only of the Central Electoral Commission but also of the heads of the District Commissions. Now, as a lawyer, tell me about it, because I know that all lawlessness is done there, first and foremost, at the level of district commissions. And secondly, you've already talked about this, but tell me again, are you sure this party principle of reforming the Central Electoral Commission will contribute to the objectivity of the commission's work? And the proposed candidate that you represent, Dubovic, is he capable of carrying out this high mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, I'll start with the answer to the second question. I'm deeply convinced that any way since the vote right here, for any candidate other than the state and the interests of the state, these people will not represent anything. This is my own conviction and the experience of previous elections to the Central Electoral Commission, which has testified, including the work of many. On the other hand, there is no quota principle, no party principle, because you and I have not approved it in any legislative act, it is the goodwill of the political process participants, for which, I take it, many of those present here in the room, and I am grateful to the President for taking into account the recommendations of one or another political power. What's going on with the district commissions. I am a co-author with a distinguished colleague of the Klukkowski Bill on Amendments to the Central Electoral Commission, the Bill on the State Register of Voters, the Bill on Elections of the President of Ukraine, and some of the other bills involved. I want to tell you that our efforts to regenerate responsibility and scare the members of all the committees from the bottom to the top about criminal responsibility and so on, including the negative consequences. That's my own impression, because at that meager salary that we give to these people for doing very serious functions from morning to night during, well, they just don't agree. And you know the situation that happened in 2002, when it was hard to form business commissions even in district cities. That's why we have to think about it. There are new bills to raise responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u52	Yes, thank you, Alexander Victorovich, time is up. I invite Sergio Olegovich to the rostrum. Please. Sign up for the question, 3 minutes, to Dubovic Sergey Olegovich. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the questions. Shevchuk Sergei, the NDP faction, please, your question. Pick up the earpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u53	Thank you so much for giving us the word. That's my question. One of the factions in Parliament has twice been appointed to this high-ranking consulting assistant. This is certainly a very positive thing because the rating of assistant consultants will increase considerably once this candidature is re-emerged. But the candidate for this high office, please explain how you are better off than the previous candidate that the Supreme Council has not approved, who has also been in such a position as a consultant assistant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. The point is, I'm a lawyer. Since 1995, I've been representing the party's interests in the Central Electoral Commission, working with two of its warehouses, I know the working mechanism of the CWC, I know electoral legislation. Maybe that's why the President of Ukraine's choice was made, and that's why my predecessor couldn't answer the questions and didn't go through this high-level session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u55	Viacheslav Koval, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u56	National Deputy Koval, Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to give the floor to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u57	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u58	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear pretender, from the practices of the Supreme Council, we see in general the situation in Ukraine that the Social Democrats and leadership are gradually being made branches of the Presidential Administration and the Supreme Council, and the Constitutional Court. Have you, as it were, received a general assignment to make the Office of the President’s Administration, on behalf of this party and the Central Election Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. During my interview with the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, I was given the only assignment. If I am subject to high public responsibilities, I will abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u60	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u61	Dear Sergey Olegovic, the main issue that is being discussed today is, in large measure, your potential professional capacity to carry out the responsibilities entrusted to members of the Central Electoral Commission. Regrettably, there were various candidates in this room, including those who were inconceivable. Please tell me, your experience at work, have you twice served as an assistant consultant to the People's Deputies, as an assistant to the People's Deputies? Did you do any organizational, technical activities or write laws? If the laws were written, please tell me what profile, what profile? So that we can understand once again exactly what you're about to do professionally as a member of the CTC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. I worked as an assistant consultant, not in two, but in three Ukrainian national deputies and a second, a third, and now I work as an assistant consultant to the Ukrainian People's Deputy. So, during my first stay, when I was duly interned in the walls of the Supreme Council I was invited to work, I was involved in the preparation of legislation in the field of local self-government, in particular, I had prepared several amendments to the applicable law on local self-government, which applied to the district councils, which unfortunately were not taken into account during the adoption of this law, as well as the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City Hero of Kiev. As an assistant consultant to the Ukrainian People's Deputy, I was working on reforming administrative legislation. In time, these are amendments and additions to the 2001 Ukrainian Administrative Code. Now, in addition to drafting legislation on local self-government, I'm working under the guise of faction, and I'm dealing with citizens' applications, drafting legislation in the field of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Time is up, enough has been said. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, registration number 5262. Please vote. [[10:33:15]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have a request and an offer. Maybe we should close this question so that we can now make an oath to a newly appointed member of the Central Electoral Commission. No objections? The factions indicate, please, on the board. The factions. Yes, there is the process of making an oath by Dubovik Sergey Olegovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u64	I, Dubovic Sergey Olegovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, a non-party position, to be objective in resolving issues that belong to the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, let us welcome Dubovic Sergio Olegovich, and wish him success in his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u67	Thank you. Put the paper back here. Dear colleagues! From the procedure? Please, Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u68	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm not going to skip the procedure to say that you've already, you know, trashed everything and even an oath. It is not enough that the President has submitted this candidature before the previous one was released, that is, the legal act did not take place, only after his release he was due to submit, and not yet released, have already submitted, and have also taken the oath that he had seen for the first time in his life. So I think that any dignity of Parliament, of the Constitution, I would ask you to keep your oaths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on additional proposals for the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Dear colleagues, let me brief you on this. At the suggestion of committees, parliamentary groups and factions, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on additional proposals for the order of the day - to - day fifth session of the Supreme Council is being prepared. It consists of two chapters: a list of additional issues to be included in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call and the list of issues proposed for inclusion in the agenda of the fifth session, which were already under consideration, received the required number of votes and were not supported by individual factions. But according to the procedure, I'm going to put these proposals to the vote in a packet, and we're going to continue to determine. No objections? I am voting on the approval of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of two chapters on additional proposals for the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 5273. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[10:36:27]] For-98 The decision is not taken. That's why I put each chapter to the vote. A list of additional questions to be included in the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is included in the vote. Please vote. [[10:36:59]] For 363 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the list of issues proposed for inclusion in the agenda of the fifth session, which have already been considered but have not received the required number of votes and are not supported by individual factions. [[10:37:30.]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Out of procedure, please, Alexander the Turk. Then Yuri Carmazin, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our faction did not, in principle, vote now, because this bill was handed out to the people's deputies only this morning, and in faction they could not study the matter properly. That's the first one. Secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to ask you. On Tuesday, literally, 15-20 minutes was not enough for us to consider two bills under the reduced procedure introduced by our faction, this is about banning the forced eviction of citizens from their homes and establishing a moratorium on the price of municipal services. Why are these bills not included in the agenda today, but new laws that were not considered on Tuesdays or Wednesdays have emerged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, we've built a schedule of our meetings in such a way that we can't do things in such a way that if the question isn't considered, let's say Tuesday, we can't deal with it on Wednesday or Thursday. Let's go back to that old tested practice that all the parliaments of the world are working on, that we're considering the issue, and then we're voting immediately. Then we're not going to have these transfers and that's it. But as I recall, it was you who supported the proposal. Let's go back to the old practice. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I am addressing you for the inclusion in the agenda of the 3657 daily bill, which is absolutely free of any political tension or involvement, it is submitted by the deputies, one and a half dozen deputies from the various factions that have been forced to do so, because after amendments to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies, there are unregulated positions regarding the Assistant Counsellor of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. These are the people who have been helping us all the time in our law - enforcement work, where we rely on tremendous functions in connection with the government’s inaction. And I'd like to ask the 3657 and 3661 projects to be included in this list of these projects that will be considered at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u73	I'm asking the heads of MPs and factions, heads of committees, and we have more bills coming in, and we're going to consider, if necessary, we're going to further group up and vote so that we don't vote on each individual bill. Sergey Teryohin, faction of our Ukraine, and we continue our work. Letters, I mean letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind you again of the way in which decisions are taken. First, it's the basis, then it's the additions or the removals and then the whole thing. You voted in a different order. What do we do now? Volodymyr Mihajlovich, today handed over to the MPs a draft law on how to respond to the decisions of the tax authorities that now all local councils for renting land, starting to tax VAT, starting to tax housing that citizens paid for 10 years, and now they're getting, they need 20 percent more. I would ask because it was in 4001, which was not accepted, but it is an urgent question. The 5218 bill, which is now in everyone’s hands, is also put into the order of the day and quickly vote it, it is on the ground and on the house and on the rent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all of us that this has been discussed for several months now a draft decree on the addition of issues to the agenda, and everyone who wanted to have this right has taken advantage of it. For the next period in writing, let's enter and take advantage of this right. We're not voting on anything. Yes, dear colleagues, the draft decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" was announced in April 2004. [[on the reform of the tax system]] I would ask that we be determined very quickly by voting, honourable colleagues, after presenting the arguments of the drafters. We have a great deal to consider today. Please, Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u76	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Dear colleagues, tax policy analysis in Ukraine shows that most of the decisions on tax reform have been made and continue to be taken without proper scientific justification, macro- and micro-economic impact analysis, and the intuitions and interests of individual structures. Today, the tax system of Ukraine is a set of systemsless and conflicting laws, presidential decrees, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, acts of the State Tax Administration, decisions of local governments. Under the influence of the solution to the problem of the state budget, the tax system has moved on to manual management, has created enormous pressure on the domestic producer, has become a brake on the way out of the economic crisis. Today, there are up to 39 taxes and congregations in Ukraine that collect up to 46 percent of its value added. Constantly declaring that the tax press is destroying domestic production, the state is increasing tax burden from year to year. The heavy tax burden contributes to the expansion of the shadow economy and its criminalization. Experts estimate that more than 60 percent of financial flows in the shadow economy are created and are based on tax evasion, congregations, and other compulsory payments. To date, hundreds of ways to avoid paying taxes have been worked out. Artificially increased self-sustainability, unaccounted cash circulation, various barter schemes, VAT compensation, and so on, including tax benefits. [[in quotes]] Losing the state budget from these "inventions" in quotes is hard to estimate. If in the years of reform in paws the gross domestic product has been reduced by twice, then the government budget's profit is six times. And according to the U.S. Court of Auditors, only such tax benefits directly account for 31 billion dollars a year. The project is therefore proposed to be held in April 2004 in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Government Day with the agenda of the "Tax Reform in Ukraine". The main scientific and expert management considers the arguments given to support the Government's day with a well-defined agenda and proposes to support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u77	Yes, have a seat, Vladimir Tikhovitch. The position of the committee on this matter? Please, Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! On March 16, the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking reviewed the draft decree of Simonenko, Ponomarenko, Gurenko, Puzakov, number 5072. In general, while agreeing on the need for a comprehensive approach to tax reform, the committee considers it appropriate to mention the following. At present, Ukraine is undergoing an intensive process of building and improving an existing legislative base, a system of tax collection, and congregations. At the present time, there are a number of important system-setting laws that consider and adopt the Committee on Finance and Banking that are essential for reforming the tax system. The Committee points out that without the adoption of these laws, even the schematic identification of the ways of this reform is impossible and inappropriate. By the way, I remind you that in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council, an interministerial working group led by Vice-Speaker, on the one hand, Parliament, on the other, is the first vice-premier of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking considers the day-to-day observance of the Ukrainian Government's Day "The Reform of the Tax System in Ukraine" to be inappropriate and time-consuming before the adoption of the system laws I have set out on this issue. I reported to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. For reasons, please the author is Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u80	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal for a Government Day, which is the Government's Day, on which we will once again examine the effectiveness of the tax system that exists in Ukraine today, and to reflect on ways to improve, based on the fundamental problems that we face. First: the future of the value added tax must be determined. We Communists have repeatedly suggested that it be eliminated immediately and replaced by a turnover tax. We need to see how our tax legislation solves the problems of unemployment, the capacity to pay, the filling of the internal market, the possibility of moving from competitive to external markets. Ukraine is in a systemic crisis. Therefore, we propose that the Government be heard in the leadership of the Cabinet of Ministers, rather than of some secondary persons, as a guide.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, positions have been clarified. So there is every reason to put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Day of the Government of Ukraine in April 2004" registration number 5072. [[10:49:05]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The draft regulation on parliamentary hearings on the status and prospects for reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is being announced, as reported by Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich, please. Prepare for the head of the Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Viktor Andryovich acts as the author of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear friends. I would like to start by thinking about why no significant reform has been carried out successfully in Ukraine. Whether it is fiscal or administrative, whether it is social, whether it is pension, or reforming local self - government. Why the reforms that have been announced have been put on the road. Why Ukraine in general is an example of how to avoid reform. In my opinion, there is a key thesis. Every reform of power and parliament must be approached professionally and publicly. The reform must be carried out by those who offer it and those who apply it. This turn of events, in my opinion, does not go to the end of the deliberate initiative of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in an editorial, so-called military reform. On the basis of this document, it is proposed to reduce the number of military personnel by 155 thousand, including 100,000 in the current year. If the programme requires $1 billion,243 million for these purposes, it is actually set aside in the current year’s budget of 368 million. Political exchange, friends, an adventure that can turn into a tragedy not only for millions, hundreds of thousands of military personnel, but for millions of Ukrainian citizens. Expert opinion. Listen, please, for this matter. On the basis of the materials and actual legislation provided for in the project, it is not possible to conclude the exact number and structure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the reliable performance of their functions by the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So so that we don't have a problem that we will then heroically deal with, we propose to consider a draft regulation that initiates hearings in the Ukrainian Parliament on this issue. The draft decision is so prepared and taken into account. Requesting the faction of our Ukraine to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u83	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. Have a seat, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the matter. But before I informed the committee, I wanted to say a few words. First. Our committee and the faction of Communists have repeatedly offered to hold parliamentary hearings or Government Day and to address the problems of the Armed Forces. There's a lot of problems and they didn't come up today. They emerged during all 12 years of independence of Ukraine, when the Armed Forces financed no more than 50-60 percent of the minimally needed needs. This has been done throughout all the years, including when the government led those who today seem to be hurting for the needs of the Armed Forces. And when you come out of this rostrum, you have to know at least the point of the matter. This year is really going to be downgraded by the Armed Forces, but not by 100,000, but by 80,000. I don't think we should get off that easy. Ten-twenty thousand over there. You can't do that! The Committee believes that it is necessary to address the issue of the reform of the Armed Forces in a complex way. There is a need. But I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council did not support the holding of Parliamentary hearings or Government Day when it proposed a committee and offered a faction of Communists. Our committee believes that we can support the proposal made by the people's deputies as we speak, but we need to clarify the order of the day's parliamentary hearing and put it this way: "About the state and prospects of reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Government's efforts to ensure the country's reliability." We need to complete the draft ruling with a list of documents that we would like to receive from the Cabinet of Ministers. With this in mind, we consider it possible to make such a decision, and the date to be determined, taking into account the load of all the days when we are scheduled to have Government Day. We think we need to go back to the defense problem. I spoke as chairman of the committee on behalf of the committee to the President on this matter. I have received a formal receipt from the Administration's Office, which has nothing to say about it, so the Supreme Council cannot leave behind the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on the status and prospects for reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Now we're going to vote one minute, we're the author. And then, if it doesn't work out, we'll be adding a committee to it. [[10:55:26]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Now I'm going to put a motion to the vote, with a committee proposal, if the drafters have a bill. [[One minute]] The factions? Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine is 99, the Ukraine is 1, the Communists are 54, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Labour Ukraine is 0, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is 0, the People's Government is 14, the SPU is 20, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 18, the Democratic Initiative is 0, the Agrarian Party is 1, the People's Choice is 0, the NDP is 6, the Postfaction is 6. [[united]] Dear colleagues! I'll put it to a vote with precision, with an offer. Change the vote. Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, obviously we have been looking at the documents in this room with little consideration when we voted on the Armed Forces Reform Act. Consider the conclusions reached by the expert office that this is essentially about the expulsion of military personnel into the street, since only a fourth of the funds for carrying out the tasks of this law are foreseen in the State Budget. Parliamentary hearings are being conducted with a view to weighing, correcting the law in a balanced manner, and to ensure that we do not have any problems before the second reading that no reform programme of the Armed Forces will be provided with financial resources. That's why I'm proposing that the budget committee, Kruczkova, be supportive of this decision. We do not have the right to throw away Ukrainian military forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal of a committee, i.e. to adopt a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on parliamentary hearings with this agenda -- "On the state and prospects of reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Government's actions and strengthening the country's defence." People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[10:57:45]] For 237 Decision taken. The draft Decree is announced for consideration. The factions? Please, by factions, give by factions: Our Ukraine - 98, Ukraine - 2, Communist faction - 56, Industrialists and entrepreneurs, the "Trug Ukraine" faction - 2, SDPU - 0, People's government - 6, SPU - 20, Deminitiv - 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 18, Agranar Party - 12, People's Choice - 0, NDP - 9, Postfraction - 14. The draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings in the Order of the Day, "The 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, has been announced for consideration. Look to the future." [[April 21, 2004]] The rapporteur is head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Gennady Rudenko. Please, Hennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, we traditionally hold hearings every year about the Chernobyl disaster. This year, too, we propose to hold the next parliamentary hearing on April 21st. We're going to raise issues on social issues, following legislation on the issue of Chernobyl. So there's going to be a large mass of public organizations, the Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Please support the parliamentary hearings on April 21.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5156, on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the agenda of the 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Look to the future." Please vote. [[10:59:48]] For three hundred Decision taken. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky - microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u90	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am in favour of addressing this issue, but I very much ask that questions be included in the agenda that are very serious about the scientific development of the process in the middle of the fourth energy cloud, which are extremely dangerous for both Ukraine and the surrounding world. As long as we don't scientifically explain what's going on there and what the threat is, everyone will think that we're inventing problems on purpose with Chernobyl. In fact, it's a very big problem and lighting, and the processes that are going on there will give us an opportunity to have additional arguments for the world to take our problems with Chernobyl very seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Ukraine's Economic Policy: Current Issues" is under consideration. [[June 16, 2004]] Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council determines the domestic and foreign policies of the country. In addition, our prerogative is the adoption of State-wide economic, scientific and technological, social development programmes. In line with the provisions of the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Economic and Social Development Programmes, a harmonized draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme for the coming period should be submitted to us annually with the draft budget. This is the most important component of economic policy in the country as a whole. First the plan, then the budget as a means of implementing the plan. Last year we had an example of a lack of such a clear economic policy when the State budget was adopted in November, and we did not even consider the Economic and Social Development Programme on our first reading. Next. We have not been talking about an innovative investment approach in the economy for the first year. In practice, however, this process is slowing down. The level of public targeted programmes can also be seriously criticized. A lot of them, over 200. But the funding and execution of the unit of programmes. The main reason for these phenomena is the legislative failure to resolve the process. In order to find sound ways to develop economic policies, the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People, Property and Investment for the first half of this year, a number of activities with broad public participation are planned during our session. It's two round tables. One of them has already gone through the innovation environment. At the end of next month, we will hold the next round table is a conference. As a logical conclusion to such a broad debate on economic policy issues, we propose to hold parliamentary hearings in June on topical issues of economic policy, not only to discuss but also to propose legislative solutions to economic policy issues. We ask the distinguished members of the people to support this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 5145 on parliamentary hearings on economic policy in Ukraine. Current questions." Please vote. [[11:04:14]] For 380 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election is being announced for consideration. Do we need to make a report? Please, Ivan Stepanovich Plush has the floor as the author of the draft decree. Prepare Michaela Catherinechuku from the TSC, a temporary special commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! You know that in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine as a subject of the legislative initiative, I introduced this project at the end of last year, which raised some surprise both among colleagues and in our society, why is it early? I have good rules of the Constitution and the Presidential Elections Act, which provide for the Supreme Council to take such a decision, and it is adopted no later than 180 days before the election. But in view of the fact that there was a variety of opinions in society and in Parliament, whether there would be elections or elections, and where there would be elections, and who and so on, and so on, I therefore considered it appropriate for the Supreme Council to take such a decision within its jurisdiction, thus putting an end to a variety of opinions about the election of the President. That's what I was driving. Now, essentially, make up your mind. It's given to you. According to article 103, paragraph 7, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 9, part one of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to appoint the President of Ukraine for Sunday, October 31, 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u95	Yeah. Thank you, Ivan Stepanovich. Then let Mikola Catherinechuk of the Temporary Special Commission express his opinion. Please, Mikola Dmitrovitch, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the election is one of the fundamental achievements of Ukrainian democracy. The process of democracy is always linked to the choices that millions of citizens make in the political process give society great political experience and maturity. Without elections, society remains infantile, and the idea of dictatorship emerges. A prominent American president, Abraham Lincoln, once said that a ballot is stronger than a bullet, and that is because when he decides Ukraine's fate is not the voter's voice, he says violence, censorship and dictatorship. I think it's a great victory for democracy that we have managed to defend the right of the people of Ukraine to elect a new President, to uphold the fundamental right of Ukrainian society to a political choice on its own. In fact, the President's appointment and election announcement is not a mere event, it's the beginning of a new political stage. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, pursuant to article 85, part 1, paragraph 7, of the Constitution, appoints the President’s election to the terms provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with article 10, part 1, of the Presidential Election Act of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Presidential Elections Decision is adopted in the form of a Supreme Council ruling. The temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine at its meeting on 12 March 2004 reviewed the draft Order on the appointment of the Presidential Elections of Ukraine, introduced by the national deputy of Ukraine, Plucech, registration number 4305. Taking into account the possibility of adopting a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, in our view, from the preamble to the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 4305, it is worth excluding references to the current law. In addition, the draft decree should contain a provision on the expiration date of this Supreme Council ruling. In discussing the draft decision, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Temporary Special Commission, proposed that the rulings be deleted from the preamble by saying, " guided by article nine, part one of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine," and by the second sentence, "This decision takes effect from the date of publication." The temporary special commission recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft decree on the basis of which it is proposed by paragraph 2 and accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u97	Thank you. Mikola Dmitrovitch, please sit down. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this? Well, please, Bespaly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u98	Dear colleagues. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." I wanted to add one circumstance. In principle, a big discussion, I think, is inappropriate here, because it's clear to everyone that we have to meet this formal requirement. And thanks to the fact that Mikola Catherinechuk has announced for the protocol the changes that are being proposed, we have the opportunity to vote immediately on it as a basis and then as a whole. I wanted to draw your attention to another circumstance. On this point, there is a special decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, although it is set out in the case of the possibility of terminating the term of office of the Kyiv city head, but it is clearly and clearly stated that the Supreme Council should decide on the appointment of the election of the President of Ukraine. That is why we also have a responsibility. And given all these circumstances, I think we have every reason to accept this decision now and on the basis, and in general, taking into account the amendments made by the temporary special commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we still have to consider a bill on the election of the President of Ukraine, so the temporary special commission has a logic when it proposes to delete the words “by virtue of article 9 of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine” and to add the paragraph “This decree takes effect from the day of publication”. With your permission, I will now read the full text of this order. "The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the presidential election of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, part 5, of article 7 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: 1. Assign the President of Ukraine's next election on Sunday, October 31, 2004. 2. This decree has become effective since the day of publication." No objections? I am voting on the adoption of this decree immediately as a whole. Registration number 4305. I heard the text. [[11:11:46]] For 429 Decision taken. Announcing a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. For reasons, please, Gabrieluk. One minute, Peter Mikolaiovich. I'm sorry. Gabrieluk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to understand and understand, especially with regard to the majority deputies and our constituents. We have the next plenary with you. Click to add another word or regular expression to the list. Work in the districts is scheduled for next week. There are plans. And that is what we are trying to do today, once again, to translate the conversation into agreement with the political parties and the blocs that are trying to push through, to accelerate. Who's in such a hurry? Where are we going today? Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I believe that this question is completely illogical. Majors have to work in the districts, we have a lot of problems. People are waiting for us. Why should we change our calendar today? Please, distinguished colleagues, do not support this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich, please. Please, Your Honor, calm down. We're working productively, let's keep doing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! I inform you that there are more than 800 draft laws under consideration in the order of the fifth session of the day. They are different and different directions, but we will need to consider them and consider them from what life requires of us. It's different. The Supreme Council has reached some agreement on the conditions for political reform, including on the listing of those draft laws that need to be adopted in order to implement them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u103	Microphone, please. Allow the reporter to speak. Calm down, dear fellows, calm down. Why doesn't the microphone work on the stand?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u104	For various reasons, we have lost a lot of time with you when there was some opposition to political reform in the Supreme Council. In view of the fact that all these draft laws should be considered, and in view of the need for the election of the Presidential Campaign to consider draft Presidential Election Laws, to consider the draft Laws on Elections to Local Self-Government Authorities, as well as the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to consider a new draft Law on Elections of People's Deputies, we propose to conduct the next week in plenary and to consider these draft laws, which will allow us not only to consider and determine laws on elections, but also to consider other draft laws that require us to consider for a time. [[new text]] And the comments or wishes of our colleagues from major districts, or those that represent major districts. Now let's not put it as an argument that comes up so we don't look at this project. As the subject of the legislative initiative, I have the right to address you, and your right to vote in favour or not, and thus to determine your attitude towards this initiative. But when I come to the constituencies, very often where there are majority MPs in the districts, I hear remarks to all of us national MPs, that there are very often no majority MPs in the districts. [[B in m in s a l in]] Without specifying all that has to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u105	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u106	all that has to do with personal position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u107	I'm asking you to calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u108	I'd like to consider the proposal to hold a plenary session next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u109	Please calm down! If there's a question, I see there is. Write down the question for three minutes. Please sign all of you. You should sign up, your honors, sign up. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Andrew School has the floor, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. There were 51 national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as a majority MP, I am generally indignant that someone is not driving. I'm driving and I'm in the district all the time. I'm asking an honorary reporter to come to my district and ask me how I work there. And I'd like to give the floor to the national deputy Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I will remind you that three minutes ago you and I decided that the President's election would take place on October 31st of this year. So those who wanted to tear it up didn't make it. There's nowhere to go, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There's nowhere to go, dear fellows. By October 31st, we'll have all the laws passed. Therefore, our faction, the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, considers it essential not to tear down the hall or change the order of the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u112	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. Please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u113	Dear colleague, I would like you and I to understand that we are with you people of the state, and we are responsible not only for the adoption of this law, but for how it will be implemented. And in view of the fact that the same district commissions should know the contents of the law as well as the district commissions, the same as the subjects of the electoral process should understand the laws. All of this requires us not to delay until October of the month, but now to consider in a calm environment, and considering the various thoughts and suggestions that come with regard to improving the draft law, to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u114	Vasil Gavriluk, National Authority MP. Calm down, please, dear colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u115	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Gabrieluk, the city of Kremenchug. Peter Mikolaiovich, no one will be able to deprive you of your right to vote with your legislative initiative. And you're 100 percent right here. But let's understand what you're saying today, somewhere you're going, there's a major deputy who works, where meetings are scheduled. And today I'd like to argue with you about that and ask you a question. What's going on is this brutal abuse of the people today, of Ukraine, of this hall, why it's so hasty, what you want. Three sitting calls, four sittings in parliament, did nothing, and why do you want to do it in two or three weeks? What will be the quality of the bill? Are you sure that the quality of the bills you are talking about will be in the interest of the people you are fighting for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u116	Dear colleague Gavriluk, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you came to the meeting of the temporary special commission, we or in this case I speak for myself, we have shown you the level of understanding and perception of what the law might be. And the substance of the draft law provides an opportunity to consider it in full. That's a first. Second. I very much ask you, distinguished colleagues, who today are expressing dissatisfaction, to draw attention to one another in its entirety. Even so, the law will be considered with us, life demands of us with you. And if we consider the same Presidential Elections Act earlier today, local council elections, then we will be able to prepare ourselves much more thoroughly and to ensure greater legal literacy and cleanliness in the implementation of the law. Today, delaying the adoption of the law is a game at the hands of the various mafia clans who are trying to use murky water to falsify the electoral process and, indeed, win in the election process of oligarchy capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u117	Calm down. Mikola Kravchenko, please. I'm asking you, dear fellows, let's keep our working rhythm normal. Please. We're going to vote, we're going to vote. Please, Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u118	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Peter Nikolayevich, I ask you for the electorate only, for me it is clear why our Ukrainian bloc is so hysterically shouting today and showing the culture of the entire Viktor Yushchenko constituency in today's conduct. If they disagree, let them vote. This is about explaining to our voters what Victor Yushchenk's bloc is currently hysterical about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u119	I ask you to calm down, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u120	Dear voters, the question is that the Supreme Council, in adopting electoral laws, I repeat, is the Law on the Election of People's Deputies, the President and the Local Self-Governmental Authorities, which paves the way for political reform. The purpose of political reform and the amendment of the Constitution is to reduce the power of the President, who in twelve years, along with his surroundings, has put or formed an opinion as a system of power that the people of Ukraine hate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u122	Now. I'll finish it, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In this situation, different political forces have different ideas as to whether or not to restrict the powers of the President. We Communists are convinced that we must be restricted and today redistributed between the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. “Our Ukraine” believes that they need the full authority of the President, for the representatives of the large shadow oligarchic capital, which in this case supports the idea in “Our Ukraine” are not supporters of the limitation of the President's powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u123	May I have your attention, please? Well, calm down, please. Replica Grigorovitch, please. Peter Mikolaiovich, please sit down because that's it. Grigorovitch, a line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u124	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Honorable Head, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Voters. There was something to be said about culture, and there was no culture. Well, apparently, blaming majors for failing to perform their duties is a very high level of culture that needs to be apologized for. Regarding the conduct of the hall, I would like to say that the zealous behavior of the Communists shows, not culture, but their salesability.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u125	I ask you to calm down, dear fellows! Before you know it, we need to consider 935 laws in this session. Who will speak from the Communists? Gmira, please. Well, don't worry, I'm asking you to calm down. Don't call it a nickname. Don't call it factions. Speak at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, there was a terrible noise on the right hand side when the general line was voted on to change the order, the schedule of meetings in the Supreme Council. I would very much like my colleagues to scream and scream like that when anti-national pension reform has been undertaken. They then remained silent and, as a result, half the people of Ukraine were robbed and voted in favour of the reform. Dear colleagues, today it is a matter of change, of the fate of the country, of whether or not the unlimited power of the President will continue. And talking about culture today is not enough. Today, we need to talk about whether Ukraine is going to fail or not. And here I have serious suspicions that some right-wing MPs want what is going on today to continue very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u127	Yes, the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev, has the floor for the report. Please. Dear colleagues, well, calm down. Everyone had the opportunity to answer the lines. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u128	Honorary colleagues, considering that the draft decree just reported by Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko met the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the committee discussed it earlier at its meeting yesterday and supported it, and proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft decision be included in the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Supreme Council and its adoption. But at that time, the committee invites the Supreme Council to accept this decision with its complement. This, by the way, refers to what the first deputy chairman of the Gabrieluk Rules Committee spoke about here, which unfortunately was not on the committee meeting yesterday. So, taking into account the proposals made by the majority national deputies, we propose that we complement this decision by doing the work of the national deputies in the constituencies from March 29th to April 2nd this year. That is, instead of working on committees and factions, as we have seen in our earlier decision on the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u129	Three minutes to ask, please. I see there's a question. Please sign up. On the question, Ivan Aleksandrovich, on the question, is expensive, on the question. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP. A total of 30 national deputies were registered. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u130	Valentin Georgievic, I agree with your suggestions as a committee, and this is a normal decision, but I cannot agree, and I want to make this statement in this room. How long will our respected lists make enemies of the people in high places? You can't do that, people! We're going to the county, we're working. Do I have to tell you how many people see lists? We're talking about one thing, and we're getting dirty on each other. You're sorry, but in the end, there must be some kind of basic decency! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u131	Thank you. Well, your honor colleague Nadrag, as you've noticed, I've started with this, and I've started with this committee, taking into account that, in particular, the Ukrainian National Deputies, elected in one-man election districts, have planned to do the work there, and we're proposing to do it in a week from 29 March in the respective regions, i.e. one-man election districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u132	Mikola Rudzkowski, POW faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u133	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Valentin Grigorovich, well, we understand that most of the national deputy majors actually go to the districts, honour them and praise them, they care about our electorate. But of course, the majority system is corrupt, they act a little differently in elections. In view of the situation that we need to consider the necessary laws, we must now vote on the decree and move on. And not enough, we need to work harder because people work 10 hours a day, and so on, we just go once a week to the Supreme Council. We need to make a more intensive schedule for the work of the Supreme Council. You need to work harder with that kind of salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u134	Thank you, dear colleague Rudzkowski. But I'd like to ask you, I can't help but ask you not to tear down the hall and not to escalate the opposition between the Ukrainian national MPs who have been elected in one-man election districts and the national deputies who have been elected by such party lists. With regard to your second proposal, we, I mean the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, have repeatedly proposed to vote in favour of the draft regulation amending the Rules of Ukraine, which was proposed by the Ukrainian national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovic. And then we're going to solve these problems that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask the MP Rudzkowski not to give up talking about corruption. I think it's Mikoli Rudzkowski. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because the authority of the Supreme Council, I don't think that's gonna make it any higher. Yeah, time's up. It's exhausted. Have a seat, please. [[N o M e s s a ……]] All right, let's sign up for the show. Please don't call your last name, there's no reason to say it. On the board, who signed up for the performance. Calm down! Ten minutes to talk. Please, Boris Bespali. Please. I didn't say anything against you. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u136	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", 223 constituency district, Kiev. Dear colleagues, there has been much talk about the fact that we have a large number of laws in the Supreme Council and that the electorate is expecting us to do so. But first, the voters expect us not all laws, good, quality laws. Such laws as the budget for this year have not been expected by any of us, and I don't think we're going to forgive it when we've given a tax on the added cost of medicine, not us, but most of us. And when there was a tax on land for advice and today the authorities of local self - government are terrorized and so on. We then make hundreds of amendments to the laws only because laws are passed in such hasty, tense, and sometimes almost hysterical circumstances. So I think that's the reason that there's a lot of laws to destroy the entire agenda, it's not a valid reason, because it's, on the contrary, it's lowering the quality of legislation. All we need today is quality. It's different. The great Iron Chancellor Bismarck used to say, "Any policy is better than a policy of fluctuation." Today, we are offered to wave from week to week, to destroy all our plans, to destroy the regulations ’ order of work simply because someone is very anxious to make amends for carrying out what is called constitutional reform. I want to tell those who have just spoken about plans in the districts and their implementation. The MPs who work in the constituencies have a double load, they have to thank, and they have no way of attacking them, and they plan their work not just in the political direction, but on specific dates. Many people need this, not the MPs, but the voters, the MPs can take action, but the voters can do it when they know that these numbers have been assigned to meet with the MPs, and then it's proposed to cancel. This is an attack on the rights of the electorate. So, I think there's a lot of reason for us not to give in to this hysterical pressure and noise, not to change the agenda that we've voted on, to work on a schedule, to systematically apologize to the offended MPs who represent voters from individual constituencies and to reject this decision, which I don't doubt. Well, finally. Regarding the attack on Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine." The electorate knows that it is our bloc and our word, and it is their best interests, and so he uses and will use the greatest support of the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u137	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u138	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We all need to work more in the districts and in the majors, who are more than we listed. But I, the Ukrainian National Deputy for the lists of the Company of Ukraine, when I come to my native Kyiv area, have always been hinted to me: and why do all you deputies, no matter how you choose, come to us so little? So I want to say, let's go to the people! That's the first one. The other one. About the quality of the laws. Let us remember that we never have enough time to accept the perfect law. What happened to the Earth Codex? How long have we been working on it? What happened to the so - called pension reform? Similarly, it is clear that we should go back and forth to those laws related to pension reform and improve them. But this is always the time. When you have to put a dot in the discussion and adopt the law with it. In order for society and the state to have some clarity, political, social, economic and thereafter, if necessary, to verify, without need, how this law works, and then, if necessary, to make proposals for its improvement over and over again. Right now, you and I are at such a time limit, when we need to, we must definitely have laws related to political reform, right away. discuss and accept it immediately. Therefore, the proposal made by Peter Simonenko, who put out of the rostrum of this Supreme Council of Ukraine the head of the regulatory committee, that, taking into account the needs of Ukrainian national deputies, senior officials, it is proposed to spend an additional session week from 29, which is perfectly correct, that it meets the requirements of the electorate. And the people we're referring to here, from this rostrum that they're waiting for us, they're blessing us on meeting our assistants there instead of us deputies. I feel all my being right here in the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a national voice, as the voice of God urges us to accept this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u139	John the Rabbit, the faction of our Ukraine, to prepare the rest of us, the last of the rest will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u140	Dear National Deputies, Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine." I want to appreciate Peter Simonek's suggestions on several sides. The first is political evaluation. It is understandable that the authors want to live up to their obligations for political reform. And that's definitely true. Why don't you tell me how you can change the rules of the Supreme Council in two days before next week? Is there concern about the new organization of the work of the Supreme Council? None. It's this proposal that the Supreme Council can't plan its work, that it's useless planning, and that we're not doing anything here, just fighting or anything. So it seems to me that from a political point of view, Peter Simonenko can also have rights. But from the point of view of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, this is a proposal for discrediting the Supreme Council, that the Supreme Council cannot work all the time. The second question is work in the districts. I'm not a major, but I work all the time in the districts in the Cherkas region. And I have these meetings planned next week, especially in Chercas and elsewhere. And I don't understand this reprimand to the majors. That's what today, dear friends, the Mayors have decided that the prices in this room and on the left side of the factions and on the part of those who are sitting in the President's Administration are zero. Peter Simonenko will tell you, tomorrow you will have to sit in this room and do what he wants, and you will do. So, dear friends, I'm addressing you majors. Spread out, for once, do not let yourself be trampled on in trifles, for he who allows himself to be trampled on in trifles is never capable of great things. So I encourage you to finally be citizens and respect our Rules and respect our people. People want to know a lot of questions today, they ask questions about pension reform, they ask questions about economic things, they ask questions, it's springtime, and they tell us, don't go now that people can meet you, and we'll go when people go to the cities. You understand where we're being pushed to work by these authors of this bill. So, dear friends, my suggestion is not to play so far. We've already played with these bills, we've already played with this political reform. Today, we are forced to play smallpox because someone has to live up to his obligations to Medvedchuk or to someone else. So once again, I'm saying that making this decision, it blew up the hall, it's not going in favour of the Supreme Council, because we can't make it to the plenary in a week. I can't do that. I've been working on some drafts today. When can you prepare? When can I meet you? So I reject this decision, and I invite you to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u141	Igor Ostasz. I announced Igor Ostas, the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u142	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to discuss this subject with a specific example. I have military units in my district right now. And next week, I have a lot of meetings, namely with the military, which are being cut down, which is practically being thrown out into the street. Today we have decided on Victor Yushchenk's proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue, and this is the right decision. And I would advise everyone to go to the military right now and listen to what really problems await them during this year, when the government has decided to reduce our Armed Forces by 80,000. I'd like to answer some Communist MPs here. I don't know where they're going with constitutional reform. Perhaps they realize that they have forgotten that they have spent only three majors on the list because of what they are supporting today. And maybe they're not interested in working in major districts right now. But today, you listen to your Communist voters, they don't support you just because you're under this regime, under Kuchma, under the government, and you're trying to play them in constitutional reform today. I'd like to say one more thing. This was about pension reform. I'm very surprised that the Communist MPs are accusing members of the Supreme Council of what's going on with pension reform today. But first of all, what you're talking about is that there's only one government decision that you're covering that you've practically led to the fact that every other pensioner in Ukraine has stolen as little as a third of their pension, almost 5 million of our Ukrainian pensioners have cheated. So you're fighting to reverse the criminal code of Government No. 1378. And finally, I'm really a major, and I plan ahead, a lot ahead of time, a week or two of my work in the district. We have an appointment with the electorate. We have assigned receptions, and I have four circuits and I have to go to each of these areas. And finally, we have a television broadcast, a radio broadcast, and we're trying to explain to people what our government is offering today with its program, which we're practically understanding very well, it's not likely that it's going to be implemented, we're going to be talking about constitutional reform. So I would ask you, in support of both my colleague Gabrieluk and colleague Nadrag, to make sure that the Mayors still have the right to meet their constituents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, the speeches are over. May I have your attention, please? Well, one minute, well, I'll tell you everything, let me tell you. Just a minute. Calm down. Everybody calm down. The faction of the Socialist Party has the right to a replica. The faction of the Socialist Party took my view as head of Rudzkowski as an image of the faction. If she took my point like that, I apologize to the faction. And from the faction. Calm down, ladies, not all at once. Calm down. The word for replication is Stanislaw Nikolayenko, followed by Bondarenko’s reply and the Communist faction. Well, the Communist faction will be determined. And there's more. I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u145	Everyone will be calm.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand why there is such a disunity in this room. If you're yelling at building a house, especially a state building, I think the biggest house in this scream is going to be in an ass. We don't have to make this a cry today to turn a line, an elementary question. I'm surprised today at the politicization of this issue. The problem is that the one who votes in favour is the one who opposes. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Rudzikowski, never specifically offended during his speech. He spoke for the phenomenon that existed during the elections. Unfortunately, you blamed him. I don't think that's entirely correct because you called a specific person. And so we ask you not to do that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u147	I won't be any more. Vladimir Bondarenko, then the Communists will have a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I would like to make a statement from the entire group of senior members of the city of Kiev. I think my colleagues support me. Mr. Rudzkowski did not seem to offend anyone, but he insulted all of us immediately by saying that this is a corrupt system and we are representatives of that system. If I ask now which one of us got a drill in Poltavska, I don't think any majors will raise their hand. The second question is that some people use the Supreme Council Hall for populist statements, for populist speeches, without any statements in front of major districts, they want to spend time here. This faction was already called. They're more comfortable here making noises from TV screens than working with people. Moreover, I suspect that they are already afraid to go to people because what they are doing today and the policy of pleasing the active authorities is what is causing people right now. So, Peter Mikolaiovich, please go to the districts and explain to people how you're acting, why you're acting like one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u149	Yes, from the faction of Communists of Replica, Alla Alexandrovska, please microphone. Then a closing word from the authors of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u150	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. I can't help but react to Ostrich's claim, which is very far from the truth in its essence. The fact is that the Communist faction has never supported the Government of Yanukovic, in fact, any of the drafts that have been considered here in the Supreme Council. Therefore, the claim that we support this Government is a false allegation. I would like to say that the Communist faction initially opposed a pension reform proposed by both the President and the Government. And the last. I think all of us: both the commanders and those chosen on the party lists are given our voters. We are meeting with them, and I am personally convinced that people understand the progress of political reform and support, including the faction of communists, in the position we have taken in this reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u151	Final word from the authors of the draft decision. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remove the problem of politicalization, which is being brought into this room on purpose, just so we don't consider the principle of whether we are working next week, whether we are going to go to the districts, or whether we are going to move the organization of plenary work to the Supreme Council next week, and from the 29th we are going to work in the mode that our Rules foresee and what was previously adopted. So I would like to answer some questions, but I do want to draw attention, and I am addressing my colleagues. When you're searching for arguments, first of all, I'm going to "Our Ukraine," so please don't forget, but what are you going to go with and talk about pension reform when you voted for this pension reform? What will you then talk about: justifying what you have voted and people are now suffering from this reform? Or would you tell those mothers whose sons had already died in Iraq after you voted to send them to Iraq? Or will you tell us about our privatization and 40 percent of our unemployment? So, Your Honor, I wouldn't want to go on with the argument, but I would like to talk about the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, there is a draft decision. Well, now we're gonna blow up more halls. Well, turn on the microphone, please. You're gonna blow up a lot more halls!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u154	So I urge everyone to vote in favour, so that we can determine that next week, in a calm environment, we will vote, we will consider the laws that are needed, and we will go to our electorate in a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u155	What's the line, reverend? Well, please, the line, the last line. Please, Sobolev. What are you doing?Oh, my God! Well, calm down! The last line, let's make a note for the memory. Don't call it a last name! Call the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u156	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." Peter Mikolaiovich, to talk about who privatized it with the hands of the communists in the previous and in this call to parliament, you need it. And you can report on those enterprises that even Illich's name, which were sold directly to you; how the companies were privatized, the oil and gas complex; how you wanted to put these companies into concession. All of this was done directly by the hands of the Communists. That's why you're going to report it. And the last. It is you who are hiding that the government's decree of Viktor Yanukovitch has reduced pensions for pensioners. It is you who should be responsible for this. And that's why the faction of "Our Ukraine" has insisted and is now insisting on the issue of pension reform. And that's the only way we can solve this issue in this session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u157	I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? That's enough. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call for adoption as a whole. [[Registration number 5248-d]] [[11:50:10]] For 263 It's been decided. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 57, Communist faction - 58, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs Party - 37, Social Democrats - 37, People's Government - 13, Socialist faction - 19, Democratic Initiatives - 12, Block Timoshenko - 0, Agrarian Party - 11, People's Choice - 14, NDP - 1, non-fractional - 3. Announcing the section “Other Readings”. Draft Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the committee. I beg your attention, fellow officers. We spent a lot of time finding out what our relationship was. Let's work. There's still time for a break. Why don't we work without a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The draft Civil Procedure Code is for consideration in the third reading. So, I think, even though I'm not given a three-minute schedule, I think maybe we asked for 20 minutes there, but I'll tell you a little bit about those changes in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u159	Before the break, please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u160	For a break? Okay, thanks. For the third reading, 502 offers were made, 423 included, 54 rejected, 25 partially counted. We worked on the committee, we went to the CDC project quite a bit, and we looked at it in terms of solving the problems of people who go to court, and the court has to act on the basis of the Civil Procedural Code. In particular, the problem that exists today regarding the prosecution of local courts has been unlocked. Because today, according to the CDC, the judge may not accept an appeal, leave it uncontested, return the defendant, and thus people cannot challenge the decision of the local court before the High Court of Appeal. We made an offer, corresponding to article 296, which provides that the judge who examined the case should be referred to the Court of Appeal within three days of the end of the appeal. [[You can see in the project]] And let the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeal, assess the local court’s decision accordingly. The next problem that still exists today is when the Courts of Appeal, when they consider the decisions of the local courts, often refer the matter to a new hearing, thus wasting time, money, nerves, and prolonged deliberation. We've proposed to 311 that the Court of Appeal, since we're creating a system of appeals courts, should be able to give an appropriate assessment, examine circumstances, evidence and make a decision. There are only a few reasons why the Court of Appeal may refer the case to the local court. When, for example, the judge considered the case, not the court’s decision. The Court of Appeal cannot remedy the situation. When, for example, the judge’s authority was over, and he considered the matter, the local court should again be brought to justice. I should point out, fellow believers, that the subject of the third reading was quite a matter of principle, a matter related to the courts of the first instance. The committee is found to be unappreciative in authorizing military courts to deal with civil matters. Civil cases involving military personnel are to be decided by district and city courts. This principle was a position, supported by most members of the committee, the Ministry of Justice, which made appropriate expertise to suit this position to European legislation. And she found her confirmation in this draft Civil Procedure Code. I would say that by the third reading, new articles had appeared. And you need to understand the committee, because the October 2 ruling last year on the approval of the CDC in the second reading said that we had brought the Civil Procedure Code into line with the Civil Code, the Family Code. And we had to bring it together. We even had a chapter on the recognition by the court of an inheritance from the deceased, which is provided for by the Civil Code. Therefore, MPs should know what the committee was coming out of. Moreover, you know that a few months ago, the Constitutional Court admitted that it was not in conformity with the Constitution of the Court of Cassation of Ukraine, which was established by the law on the judiciary, a valid law on the judiciary. That is why we have brought the decision of the Constitutional Court into line in this regard. Dear colleagues, these are the principles of the positions that we are introducing in the PKK bill, this is a question of the court assembly. You've obviously noticed when you read that the government's duty is replaced by the term "court assembly." State tax is the kind of tax paid when you cross, say, the state border. But we've done so historically that the government's duty is to pay for the case, it's washed away in the state budget, and it's not about supporting the courts and the activities. That's why we replaced the term "state tax" with the term "court assembly." And in the following, a protocol decision has been taken by our committee that the committee will bring a separate law on the judicial assembly to the session of the Supreme Council. Rather than being dissolved in the general budget, the judicial assembly should be supported by the courts. That's why the courts will work better. In addition, honourable colleagues, the chapter on "Introduction," particularly, as I said, was supplemented by a chapter on the recognition of a judicial inheritance in the new Civil Code. The chapter on the recognition of propertyless things is presented in a new edition in view of the fact that the Civil Code does not provide for such an institution but includes a provision for the transfer of immovable property to municipal property. A chapter has been deleted which regulates the introduction of misreported information in civil and civil acts, since these cases are administrative by nature. And this is the subject of regulation of the Administrative Procedural Code, which we're going to deliver to the desktop after consideration of the CDC project. We also worked on the final and transitional positions, and we suggest that the Civil Procedure Code enter into force on 1 January next year, but not before the adoption of the Administrative Procedure Code. They should work together, and so that we don't have a gap here in regulating the corresponding legal relations that come out of administrative relations. That's why I think, Mr. President, that today, I think, is a subjective thought and opinion of the members of the committee, a perfect draft of the Civil Procedure Code, which has passed appropriate expertise at the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court. We work together with these institutions, with the National Bank, the State Court Administration. I would like to express my great gratitude to the Lviv National University of John Frank, in particular the Professor of Legal Sciences of Zorislava Romovski, the National Law Academy of Jaroslav Wise, as well as the Center for Legal Reforms for useful and timely conclusions. So today, on behalf of the committee, I propose to adopt this important codified act in the third reading and in general. I don't think he's perfect. But we still have until January 1st next year to make it much better than it is. I think we're gonna work on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u161	Why don't we take it and take a break? A break is being announced. Dear colleagues, there's no question report, we're on our way. I say again, there are no questions, let's go to the articles. And now there's a break in 12 hours for 30 minutes. This is the third reading. There are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u162	I'm asking you to take your seats so we can continue our work. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, in the meantime, I'll read you an ad. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the People's People's People's Republic of Ukraine from the Democratic Initiatives Group. The draft decrees on the election, the release of judges, are being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the chairman of the committee, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u163	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Your Honor, several draft Supreme Council rulings on the election of judges to appeal courts, to local courts, to the Supreme Economic Court. In particular, please raise the draft judgement 5251, I will announce the judges and to which court they are elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u164	I'm asking the national MPs if the warnings about a judge give the chairman a raise of hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u165	To the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Mesovedov Tetjan Mikolayevna the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region of Kamzalova Vladimir Vasilovich; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Artamonov Oleg Alexandrovich, Kulagin Victoria Henryhovna, Lolenko Alla Volodymyr, Nazarenko Victoria Anatoliyevna, Shaban Valentine Alexandrovna, Red Marina Eugene; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Križanivska Vladislav Viktorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Oliynik Vasil Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Osjetrov Viktor Ivanovich, Sukaz Tetjana Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Plain Region of Butak Zhenowi Ivanovich, Ship's Alexander Kuzmić, Mishchenko Olga Andronichna, Onipko Oksana Volodymyrna; The Court of Appeal of the Suman District of the Highlands of Alexander Mikhailovich, Dove Mikhail Vasilovich, Luzan Larissa Viktorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region of Delijevo Alexandro Mikolaiovich, Skobelkin Sergey Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of the Court, Alexander Leonidovich, The ruler of Paul Alexanderovich, the Mattov Love of Alexiyevna, the Shepherd of Michael Mikhailovich, the Soslova of Mikola Illich; the Court of Appeal of the City of Sevastopol of Kucecon John Petrovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Bredelov Alexandr Mikolayovich; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Fedorov Mikola Alexiyovich; the local Sack City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Borschevska Love Volodymyrovna; the local Wallowsky District Court of Donetsk Region of Tetjana Ivanovna; the local Zedanów City Court of the Donetsk district of Makganchuk Viktor Ivanovich; the local Starobesev district court of the Donetsk district of Djachenk Alexander Ivanovich; the local Hartzik City Court of the Donetsk Region of Zhadanov Valentina Sergiyevna; the local Kirov district court of Makyivka Donetsk Region The bachelor Olenna Volodymyrna; the local Amazing District Court of the Predry of Vasil Samylovich; the local Vinogradov district court of the Zakarpat district of Nazarov Peter Alexanderovich; the local Wilshan District Court of Kirovgrad, Savchenko Seraphim Onufriyevna; the local Markov district court of the Luhansk district of Ryabuhu, Vera Fedorovna; The local divisional district court of the Odessa district of Vadovsk Ludmila Mikolayovna; the local Malinov district court of Odessa Derus Anatoly Volodymyrovich; The local Suvorov District Court of Odessa, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Seminal District Court of the district of Poltava district of Shudru Viktor Ivanovich Octabres District Court of Poltava Panchenka Alexander Alexandrovich Provincial District Court of Goutz Fedor Leonidovich Biological District Court of the Hmelni district of Nikolaychuk Zinaid Ivanovna Sadgir District Court of Chernivts Astashev Sergija Anatoliyovich. Military Court of Kiev garrison Vasilek Jaroslav Mikolaiovich The army's local court of the Kharkiv garrison Lucia Anatolia Ivanovich and Jacina Viktor Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u166	Dear colleagues. Please. The mosquito, the microphone, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u167	Please tell me, Kodolo Vladimir Aleksandrovich, you haven't read it. Is that a withdrawal?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u168	Let's go, let's go. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u169	That's the next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Since there are no warnings and there is a positive conclusion of the committee, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges, registration number 5251. Please vote. [[12:35:41]] For 333 Decision taken. The draft regulation 5251-1 is announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u172	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one, article 128, of the Constitution, it is recommended that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: Kyiv’s Court of Appeal Marinczak Ninel Evgenynowna, Osipenka Mikhail Ivanovich The local Lenin district court of Winnitz Ouszuk Yevgen Maksimovich. The local Nicolel City Court of Dnipropetrov, Novikov Olen Viktorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u173	There's a denial against Novak, isn't there? Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u174	To the local Hartziski City Court of the Donetsk district of Kodolo Vladimir Aleksandrovitch
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u175	There's a warning. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u176	To the local Rakhiv District Court of Zakarpatsk district of Bendek Aleksija Mikolaiovich
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u177	There's a warning. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u178	The local Irpine City Court of Kyiv district of Saranuk Ludmila Pavlovna the local Svetlovodsk district court of Kirovograd district of Gontarenko Viktor Ivanovich; the local Suvorov district court of Odessa, Woody Nina Ivanovna and the local Komsomol city court of Poltava district of Kuz Tetjana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, with the exception of three names, I put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 5251-1. [[Novikova, Kodolov and Bendak]] Please vote. [[12:37:27]] For 383 Decision taken. Novak's Elena Victorian, please come to the microphone. Please, who had the warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u180	In Noviko's case. It's not Kodova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u181	That's what we're talking about in Novik's case. Please, who's warned? Drachewski, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u182	I'd like to hear some information about Novikové Elena Victorovne. I have repeatedly asked the Committee to consider some of the complaints that I have received as a national MP. To date, unfortunately, I have not received any answers, although I know that the checks have been carried out. But I'd like to hear some more data. In August 2002, Novikova, a member of the College of Judges, dealt with the civil case. Lechchenko, City Election Commission, declared the elections invalid. Novikova violates judicial ethics. Prior to the decision in the case, she informed Ljashchenka of the content of the decision, which had been recorded by Glaschenek on writing devices. As a result of the violations that have been committed, the College has been challenged, which is satisfied, and the case has been referred to a different court in the area. And many other facts that indicate that there are many issues that need further verification. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u183	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u184	Well, you can listen to Novak's Helen Victorian, but there are now some additional data, some respectable colleagues that need to be checked. Those materials that came before us have been checked, but if new circumstances arise, we are ready to return so that we do not decide in essence man’s fate today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal for the committee to further study all the materials related to the activity of Judge Noviková. Is there no objection? So we support the committee's position. Kodolov Vladimir Aleksandrovich, please come to the microphone. Turn on the Komara People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u186	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! I know that Vladimir Yakovitch Karaban sent the commission, this is the head of the State Judicial Administration, and he has just received a note from this committee that has not been able to take action. In addition, there is an appeal by the head of the Gemini District Administration, not about financial violations, but about violations of the admission of citizens. I'd like to go back to this candidate again and take a closer look.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u187	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, maybe Kodolov will explain, and then I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u188	Please, Kodolov Vladimir Aleksandrovich, your explanation. He's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u189	Is he gone? Obviously, then, if additional materials are coming, we need to check. Although I have to say. The conclusion of the Attorney General’s Office is the conclusion of the Supreme Court, where they have been checked objectively. But we're ready to see. He's not here, so we should probably listen to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u190	Vladimir Alexanderovich Kodolov is missing, I ask the committee to return to further study on this issue. Bendak Alexei Mikolaiovich, please come to the microphone. Who made the warning, Andrew School? Microphone, please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u191	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Bendak about the situation with the private firm Vidrička. More than 40 people worked for this company, five years in different courts, and then the Supreme Court overturned Judge Bendak’s decision in favor of a citizen named Nazarov Spore, who was still in office. And just a few years ago, another judge of the same Rahite court ruled a just, contrary to that judgment. I would like to have an explanation for this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u192	Please, Bendak Alexei Mikolayovich, explain yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u193	In June 97, I made a decision in favour of Zachary. That same year, the court of cassation upheld my decision. The District Court’s presidency also partly supported it. In 99th year, the Supreme Court overturned the decision, and on 17 October 2002, the second judge ruled. Part of the suit was served, and part was left without consideration. And in January 2003, his appeal against the approval of the local court was also dismissed. I acted according to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u194	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u195	We've been looking closely at Bendick's candidacy, and I have to say that he has a very good quality of work, very nice. It's positively characterized, it's supported, and we've been gathering information, MPs from the Zakartat district, actually all of them. So the committee had absolutely no reason not to recommend it to a judge on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u196	I'm voting for the election of Bendak Alexi Mikolaiovich to the judge on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[12:43:19]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the judges whom we have just elected to office on an untimely basis and wish to serve the law faithfully and to ensure the rule of law. [[Applause]] A draft ruling on the release of judges is being announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u197	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, still 5251, was handed down to the Supreme Economic Court. I'll read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u198	Where?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u199	5251-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u200	Where is he? Please read it. Oh, we haven't all chosen yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, before the domestic courts. According to article 85, paragraph 27, part of the first article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine proposes to elect judges on an indefinite basis: to the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Volkovetsk Natalija Alexandrovna. to the Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal of Stahurski Mikol Fedosijovich; to the Kyiv Economic Court of Appeal, Sergey Ernestovich; to Odessa’s Court of Commerce, Baluch Valeri Sergiyovich. The committee considered the nominations yesterday, they have the conclusions of the Higher Qualifications Commission, the positive material collected, there are no claims against each judge, so there is a proposal to support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree number 5251-2 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[12:45:05]] For 367 Decision taken. Let's welcome all the judges we've just chosen to serve on a temporary basis. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u203	About the release. You have on your hands a draft Decree 5245 on discharge: Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Eugenia Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Gordijenko Grigory Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Radchenko Nin Timofievna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Commercial Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Bogek Galina Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Yasinauth City Court of the Donetsk Region of BoychenkoValentina Ivanovna - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Vilnius District Court of Zaporozhye District, Dmitrenk Petr Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Santa Claus District Court of Pancrates, Valentina Grigorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kyiv District Court of Odessa Kornienka Anatolia Mikhajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Mayor's Municipal Court of Poltava, Moskalenka Mikhail Prokopovich - in connection with the application for resignation; and the judge of the Sosnov district court of Cherkas Dmitrek Mikola Ivanovich in connection with the end of the term for which he was elected. We checked all the statements, no pressure, no free will. Therefore, there is reason to support the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u204	I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 5245 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[12:47:15]] For 328 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. A report has already been made. Let's move on to the amendments. Let's do some repairs. If anyone insists, raise your hand. Amendment number six, Valentina Seminouk. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment to the twelfth. Don't insist. Let's move on. What are the amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u205	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, not here. We actually counted 90 percent, reconciled positions with the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u206	Amendment 31, Seminouk. You don't? None. Let's move on. Let's go for a walk, 'cause they're coming. There are many amendments to Carmazin that insists on them. Amendment 39, Seminouk. Don't insist. Semenyuk, 46. Don't insist. Semenyuk, 47. Weak guy, 48 repairs. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 66, Weakness. Is he insisting? Semenyuk, 68. No, it's not. Weak guy, 72. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Weak guy, 81. No, it's not. Amendment 104, Semenjuk. No, it's not. Amendment 113, Seminouk. No, it's not. Yeah, amendment 126, Seminouk. No, it's not. Semenyuk, 127. No, it's not. Yes, Amendment 144, Sirenko. Are you insisting? The Microphone of the People's Deputy Sirenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, here's the thing is, there's been a technical mistake. It's not about part three of article 93, it's about part one, where it's about information and technology costs. But the exact same amendment is in the 95th article in Carmazin, on information and technology. So let's move my amendment there and vote for the Carmazin amendment that I'm essentially in solidarity with.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u208	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u209	Well, we can vote like that either now or later, if Vasil Fedorovich suggests later, by 95, we can make a fundamental decision there, I'll explain and we'll make a decision. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u210	Okay. Amendment 143, Carmazine. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u211	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I'm, here's 142 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u212	143. 142 is the repair of Gorbal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u213	So it's an amendment on page 62. The amendment concerns, honourable national MPs, I want to draw your attention, absolutely all factions, regardless of the left or right, that now our electorate, the people, are relying on additional costs of information and technology. The point of the amendment is that the first part of the third article 93 is deleted. So not to put information and technology costs on Ukrainian citizens, except for the taxes that people pay. This was the first time in the system of commercial courts, and then there were arbitrational courts, and now it's completely done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u214	I'm voting on Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u215	Why don't I give you an explanation?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u216	Please take off the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u217	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like you to consciously understand the nature of this problem. Because you were standing in front of me and the committee. The point is that we are really putting in the cost of information and technology to deal with the case, that is, the costs involved in informing the participants of the civil process about the move and the outcome of the case. Next. Costs related to the production and issuance of copies of court decisions and other judicial actions. Today, these costs are borne by people, but they carry them from a black hole to a secretary. We want to legitimize this position. In addition, certain categories of persons are simply exempt from payment by our Civil Procedure Code of Alimony, Parenthood, Labour Renewal Disputes, and many other cases. And the cost itself is going to be between 3 and 10 dollars, and I think that's just going to improve the work of the judges. Because today we need to approach the situation when a person comes to court and reads all the information on the fate of his or her case on the computer. Not only in her court of law, but also in a higher court of law. In addition, if there is a need for a court, and we predict it in the CDC, it has the right to exempt them from the payment of these expenses, and also to dissipate or delay them. And if a person has paid the cost, the answer, if a lawsuit is served, will bring back these costs, that is, no obstacles.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u218	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 143. That's what you've done! Please, Sirenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, Vasil Vasilovich painted an illusory painting, a completely illusory painting. Because this cost is a well-known defeat, it's nothing more than a well-known defeat from Ukrainian citizens. It was designed to provide financial, financial, and financial support, as they say. So I ask you to vote for this amendment. There are government duties, there are other congregations that are sufficient to provide for the courts. And this is an auxiliary fee from Ukrainian citizens. These are struggles that make the constitutional position of citizens worse in the matter of rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u220	I'm voting on the amendment of 143 people's deputies, Carmazin. And then I'll put yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u221	The committee's proposing a rejection. [[12:54:43]] For-167 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote the amendment of 144 national deputies of Sirenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u222	Same point. [[12:55:03]] For-94
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u223	The decision is not taken. Amendment 149 Yuri Karmazin Microphone, please. This is page 65.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u224	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you call the amendments a little bit different than after the text we were given tonight, at night. So I'm using the last kind of text -- and still, for some reason, they're getting different with you for a few amendments. The amendment relates to the introduction of an article, article 95, which is called: "Expensions on court information and technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u225	I'm asking you to turn off your cell phone. It's blocking your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u226	It's called "Expension for Information and Technology in the Court." I don't know what Vasil Vasilovich was coming out of when I said that 200 there would be how many ten bracelets there would be. No one set it up. You don't write it anywhere. You give it back.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u227	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u228	The position of the committee, I've already expressed it, to reject it. And most of the members of the committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u229	I put to the vote Amendment 149 Yuri Karmazin. [[12:56:47]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Amendment 154 Yuri Karmazin Microphone, please. See page 67.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u230	Same point.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u231	The point is not the same, honourable national MPs, the point is the content of article 90, it's about article 97, which is called "Return of State Customs and Costs to Pay for Information and Technical Provision of the Court. It's said when the amount of government duty paid is returned to people. I'm talking about this, and I'm suggesting you change the title of article 97 and put it in the title of "Return of State Customs," purely state-of-the-art. Here Sirenko spoke of a violation of the Constitution, absolutely correct, there is a violation of article 22 of the Constitution on citizens' rights, and we are making the situation of Ukrainian citizens worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u232	Well, the position of the committee is clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u233	Yuri Anatoliyovich, not an article, this is article 83, turn in the right column. So the position of the committee is to reject the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u234	I put to the vote Amendment 157 Yuri Karmazin. [[12:58:25]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Amendment 159. Are you insisting, Yuri Anatolyovich? See page 69. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u235	I ask you to vote on this amendment. I'm going to the hall. If we reject these amendments that are designed to protect human rights, no one in this country is going to need such a Civil Procedure Code because it's worse than it was. We're not protecting the military right now, we're removing it. Complaints are coming. 100,000 only gets released this year. And here I am asking to vote for this amendment. I'm talking to the national MPs who didn't get a chance to take these issues seriously. They're very important to citizens. This is about hundreds of thousands of cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u236	I'm voting on the amendment of 159 Yuri Karmazin. [[12:59:43]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Amendment 197 of Vasil Sirenk. Are you insisting on her? Please, Sirenka's microphone, the Communist faction. Page 85.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, during the reform of the army, there are many civil-legal conflicts in the area of wages, in the sphere of labour relations, in the area of property relations. And at that time, military courts leave the possibility of dealing with civil matters. I ask you to support this amendment and allow the military courts to deal with civil matters involving military personnel, military personnel, the Border Guards, the Security Service, and others. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u238	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u239	This was a very principled question, and it was not easy to pass through the committee. I should point out that today there is absolutely no reason for military courts to deal with divorce cases or alimony cases. The motivation to be determined by the subject, well, the major, the lieutenant, and the nonmilitary woman should therefore be judged by the military courts, unable to withstand criticism. Motivation of e, which is a military secret, I think this problem is being solved. Note, in article 6, part three of the project, which envisions a closed court hearing, including when it comes to military secrecy. There are no military courts around the world today to deal with civil matters. We asked, name at least one category of cases where military courts could be considered. We understand that there is a problem with employment. But these judges need to go to the general courts, the courts of general jurisdiction. We do not eliminate this law from military courts. War crimes will be dealt with by military courts. There is a decision by the European Court of Justice." against Turkey. against Turkey. against the United Kingdom, where the European Court of Human Rights has condemned the practice of dealing with civil matters by military courts. In addition, it is possible to speak of the independence of military judges. When military knowledge is assigned to them for military command. Military rank depends on the size of the profits and so forth. It's different. Military judges are part of the Ministry of Defence's security. The lieutenant and the general will be tried. Who will win the case in court?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u240	I am voting on amendment 197 of Sirenck’s National MP, page 85. Dear colleagues! We only vote on the amendments made in writing. Anything, please. [[13:02:46]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Amendment 213 Valery Assadchev, page 91. Please. Valery Assadchev, are you insisting on her? See page 91. Dear colleagues! I say again, we're voting on the amendment, no motive. Please, Amendment 213. With motive before the vote, everything. What do you mean you didn't? I say again, the amendment is given the word. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u241	Dear friends! This is an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u242	You should have written that there are authors of this amendment, someone else. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u243	This amendment, I'm surprised it's written here. It's already an explanation of how we suggest that if there is an authority on one side and this is the case in an area where this authority directly exercises its authority, then the other side has the right to transfer the matter to another territory, that is to say, to make such a response, as it were, by a territorial sign. And this is Amendment 213, and it's already telling us how to do this, the transfer of this case. But I don't see a major amendment here, because it was supposed to be there at the beginning of the code. So I wanted to ask Vasil Vasilovich about this, so I understand that it's out of the question, so this one just doesn't make sense, it needs to be in the complex. And secondly, at this point, to sanctify, because today there are a lot of such cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u244	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u245	I'll take this problem off with my answer, I know about it. The point is that the change in jurisdiction is clearly stated in the corresponding standards that we are now going through. And as for the authorities of the state, you know that there's a legal relationship. related to administrative relations, complaints about the actions of the authorities, the executive -- all of this will be provided and already provided for in the Administrative Procedure Code. And we're predicting that there's going to be some kind of interdisciplinary, interdisciplinary courts that don't have any influence. And in terms of civil relations, there can be no inequality of sides. We put this principle in the Constitution, we put it in the Civil Procedure Code. And all sides are equal whether it's an authority or Peter, John in a court of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u246	Vote her amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u247	Maybe he'll take it off?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u248	I'm voting on Amendment 213 Valery Assadchev. [[13:05:35]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Amendment 224 on page 94 of Yuri Carmazin Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u249	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we won 214 votes when we voted on my amendment and Sirenka. People didn't make it, it was the Military Court. So we're going to have to go back to that question. And now I'm referring to article 122 of the new edition or to the first reading it was 140. These are the cases where a motionless application remains unmoved and the application returns. When a person goes to court, and only because he hasn't paid for information and technology services to deal with a case, there's a reason why he should be sent away. Think about it. There's no money in the village. There's no money in the village. We didn't pay. The constitutional right to appeal is being infringed. That's the only reason. And I ask for part of the first article of article 140 to be edited without these words, without "expenses on information and technology."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u250	I'm voting on the amendment of 224 Yuri Karmazin. See page 94. [[13:07:14]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Amendment 230 Yuri Karmazin Are you insisting on her? Please, the microphone. See page 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u251	I've got it under another number. I don't understand, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, we were just handing these out, you know, just handing them out. By the way, it's just a nuisance of what's going on. This is about the amendment, I have it on page 99, 238. The same is true of all national MPs. Suggested in the previous edition of the sentence of part one of article 143, to read: "The application is accompanied by documents confirming the payment of the State's duty." It's the form and content of a cross-appeal. This is important to decide when to refuse. In that version that we were given, that's amendment 238. The head has a slightly different text and a slightly different numbering. I beg you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u252	I ask you, Yuri Anatolyevich, take the text, not the previous one, but the one you were looking at on the committee yesterday. Now you have the amendment going to 232, part 2 of article 140, and the text continues to go. Let me put them to the vote, all these amendments, tai and all. You're saying a completely different correction. 238 is an amendment to Onopenko. Yuri Anatoliyovich, why don't you take the committee and then tell me about the Rules? I'm putting to the vote Amendment 232 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:09:14]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Amendment 243 Yuri Karmazin, page 99. That's the point. The sentence in part 1 of article 143 proposed in the preceding sentence. “There shall be added documents to the application that confirm the payment of the State's duty.” Are you insisting on this amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u253	Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am again addressing the deputies. The form and content of the present invitation depends on how much people will suffer and know how to do it. I'm asking you, those are the documents, not asking people for extra documents or asking for extra pay. Only what confirms the payment of government duties. By the way, Basil Vasilovich, I would advise you to familiarize yourself with the experience of both Germany and the United States when you colleagues of Sirenk said that there was no military court there. I'd like to ask you to study this because he couldn't answer you. I'm just taking a chance. I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u254	I'm asking you to let me give you a hand. Yuri Anatolyevich, I've studied this experience, this experience I have, the foreign experience in the office, come to the desk. And I would recommend that you come to the committee and work on the draft Civil Procedure Code, because today, you see it for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u255	Nevertheless, I am voting on Amendment 243 by Yuri Karmazin. See page 99. [[13:11:15]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. Yes, the amendment to the 498th National Bank. There's no insistence on her vote? So let's move on. Amendment 411, Onopenka, do you have it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u256	No, I agree that it was the right thing to do. And not one of my amendments was correctly rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u257	Correction of 425th on page 217 of Valeria Assadchev. Is Assadchev insisting? He doesn't insist anymore. Amendment 429 Yuri Karmazin, page 218. It reads as follows: Part four of article 300 reads: “A complaint which is not made in accordance with the requirements provided for in article 299 of this Code, as well as in the event of a failure to pay public duties, shall be subject to the rules of article 140 of this Code.” Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on this amendment? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u258	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin. I ask you not to create obstacles for Ukrainian citizens, please! I'm talking to Vasil Vasilovich. Vasil Vasilovich, I ask you to make laws for the people. I insisted on this on the committee, and I insist right now, and I say, let's put less horn on people. Yes, the Constitution provides for the citizen’s right to appeal and appeal. Every horn that is set up here is a restriction on this right. I ask you to vote for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u259	I'm voting for Yuri Carmazin's amendment number 429, this is 218 pages. [[13:14:11]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Amendment 460 Yuri Karmazin It is suggested that part two should be edited as follows: "In the case of a cassation complaint not made in accordance with the requirements provided for in Article 329 of this Code, or in the case of a failure to pay a public duty, the rules of Article 140 of this Code shall apply, to which the judge-Rapporteur shall be provided with the appropriate resolution." You insist, Yuri Anatolyovich, on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u260	Yuri Carmazin. The point is that if you didn't pay for the cassation complaint, you didn't get a payment receipt, you're just going to be denied a cassation. I mean, they're just going to violate your constitutional right to touch on a case. Whether this is just or not. Let's think about it, he paid these costs in the local court, then in the Court of Appeal, and you're also in the cassation. You want to rob this man around. And then we cover up what it takes for the court to do it. Although it's the norm of another law, it's the setting up of other salaries in general. And I also draw the attention of the National Deputies to the observation of the Chief Legal Authority that these amendments are correct, that the position that most of the members of the Committee have now taken is such that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 460 People's Deputies of Carmazin. [[page 236]] [[13:16:12]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. All amendments have been voted on. The committee's proposal, please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u262	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! On behalf of the committee, we thank you very much for your support. We propose to adopt this draft law of the CDC in the third reading and in general, and it will really help the people mentioned here. It's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u263	Basil Sirenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u264	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I believe that the hall has come together and I have not understood when an amendment to the military courts was being voted on. She won the largest number of votes 214. He was prevented from speaking as the head of a military committee. So I think we need to re-vote this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u265	What kind of correction is that? What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u266	197.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u267	Amendment 197? Now, one minute. I'm going to put her to a vote. Amendment 197 of the Syrenk People’s Deputy, page 85. Dear colleagues, who is responsible for voting on Amendment 197. Who's in charge of voting? [[13:17:51]] For 268. Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 197 National Deputy Sirenka, page. One minute, cancel the vote. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u268	Dear National Deputies! I'd like you to deliberately approach this vote now. Because it's a civil process, a process that has nothing to do with military service. I'm not talking, in principle, about the institution of military courts as such. But think about what you're about to offer. From a legal point of view, we have joined all the conventions that are now binding on Ukraine. And Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko was now giving examples of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. The very fact that a civil case is being considered by the military is already a violation of human rights. In this case, think about the examples cited and thousands of them. When a military officer and a civilian man are on the side of the trial, and he has to go to a military court that will deal with a purely civil case, whether it refers to alimony, or whether it refers to a land dispute. What's with the military? I very much ask you not to support this amendment because the work that has been done on the committee for a long time has produced its results. I would like to see that the editorial that the committee is working on could be sent to the President's signature and have the legal force to give us the Civil Procedure Code as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u269	I'm voting on Amendment 197. That's enough. There have already been arguments on the sides, let's vote. Amendment 197 on page 85. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:54]] For 229 I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and generally, as a law, a draft law on the Civil Procedure Code. Take down the vote. Please proceed with the Turkish procedure. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u270	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! There's a big request, we've got a poor population, and they won't draw and pay, and there'll be fights that the courts will take out. Let us, in general, vote with the exception of this position regarding the information congregations. That's a big request. I think all MPs will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u271	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please give me some help.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u272	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u273	Honorary colleagues, I want you all to hear right now what you have voted for, the one who thinks I read this amendment to you, many of you do not have the following text: "To supplement article 125 with three parts of the content: the garrison military courts as the courts of the first instance of the judiciary, which are subject to a decision in civil court, which is related to the protection of the rights, freedoms of military personnel and other citizens, the rights and legitimate interests of the military parts of the institutions, organizations in which there are military officials, military officers, members of the military, appointed to pass assemblies or persons assigned to special duties or military organizations, the bodies of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Tax Service of Ukraine and the State Customs Service of Ukraine, to whom special duties or military organizations are assigned, the organs of the Ministry of the interior affairs of Ukraine, the state of the state of the state of the state of justice of the state of which the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of which is in whose jurisdiction of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of which the state of which is in which the state of the case. Abracadabra! What did you vote for?Oh, my God! You read what you vote for!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u274	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u275	You think about what you're voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u276	Well, they've already voted. What's he doing, Vasil Vasilovich? Because lobbyism has its own interests. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the committee's proposal to accept the second reading, the third reading and, as a whole, the draft of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u277	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'll make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u278	Vote please! [[13:22:36]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, if I have to, I'll explain it 20 times. And I suggest that we take into account the committee's proposal, and in particular, where article 107 states: all cases that are subject to civil justice are dealt with by district, district, city, city and inter-district courts. We have a clear court system. And civil cases are being dealt with by local courts, there are appeals courts and there will be a court of appeal and still a higher, highest court. If we're going to do this cataclysion today, otherwise I'm not going to call it a name, then we're going to need the Administrative and Procedural Code that we're going to bring here, because that proposal by Vasil Fedorovich Sirenka, I respect him as a doctor, as a legal colleague, today he's just bringing in a little bit of a blur, because part of the relationship that should be considered by the administrative courts is taken away. You have to clearly understand this position of the committee, it's convincing. In this position, we have conducted an expert study in many European countries where developed systems are legal. This is the position of the Supreme Court, this is the position of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, Minister. Now we're going to figure it out. The only way out of this situation is to accept it as a whole after it has been dedicated and taken into account. That's it. Please, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Policy has done a very big job to date to get Ukraine's Civil Procedure Code. One amendment broke, in principle, the entire structure of the codex. The majority of Ukrainian citizens are militarily bound. We have taken such a step that from a legal point of view does not withstand criticism and creates serious problems for the state. I'm asking you to read now again what has been voted for. And I suggest that it be adopted as a whole of the Civil Procedure Code without this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u282	Sirenko, please, Vasil Sirenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, until now, military courts are considering civil lawsuits, civil cases. What, then, would break the system if the military courts were to deal with civil matters until now? Now they're trying to limit the court-martials. So when we limit military courts, what do we do? It's on the one side. And on the other hand, I propose to delete the fee for information and technology and vote on the law as a whole. I think we can uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u284	Leukyanko, please, and we will vote. Someone there, please give me your word. Okay. Now we're going to propose to the committee, we're going to determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u285	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block Honorable deputies. We can't go into expanding the scope of the military courts. This really destroys the structure of our judiciary. We need to take this very seriously because there will be a terrible confusion. So I suggest we rule out this amendment, and then we rule out any drawbacks there from citizens except for the moment. Government duties can be increased or reduced, but this should be the only payment before a person sues and applies to a civil court. With these amendments, I am ready to vote in favour of the Civil Procedure Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u286	Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u287	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to listen. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments that have been made here by the head of the committee and the minister. I'm making a formal offer. Vote the entire Civil Procedural Code with the deletion of this amendment. In case the room doesn't support that position, then I'm going to make another formal proposal to vote on the Civil Procedure Code in third reading and put on third reading exclusively that article, or the articles to which this amendment applies. I'll ask you to put my proposals to the vote in such an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u288	Please make a proposal to the committee. Now. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u289	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I think we can go this way. I'd like you to know more statistics on civil matters by military courts. In a month, we took this statistic down, we looked at it on the committee -- 6-10 civil cases per judge, and 130-150 more in the courts of general jurisdiction. That's why I'm making this proposal. Adopt the Civil Procedure Code in the third reading without amendment by Vasil Fedorovich Sirenk. Delete. And adopt the Civil Procedure Code in the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u290	Calm down, that's it. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, please. Adopt the Civil Procedure Code, the draft Civil Procedure Code as a whole, as a law deleting the amendment of 197 people's deputies of Sirenka. Please vote. Please vote. A committee and government proposal. [[13:29:05]] For the 320. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u291	Thank you. It's the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u292	The draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure was now to be reviewed, but the General Legal Office is asking us to postpone the consideration of this bill, because there are many points of a technical and legal nature that need to be taken into account. But let's write that we're moving the debate to the first plenary week of April. They'll make it, because if we move it to the 22nd, then we won't look at it at all. On the first plenary week of April of the month. I'd like you to keep that in mind. Please, Matthew from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u293	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Matthew, head of the Rules Committee, Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you again, but let's be consistent when we talk about meeting the requirements of the Rules. If an offer has already come from a committee on which Onopenko has been very insistent, it is not a committee proposal, but an Onopena herself as chairman of the committee. Then it had to be put to the vote in order to resolve the issue of the return to the vote on the matter. Thank you. Therefore, when the draft law is now being voted on, there is a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u294	Gmira, please, with a motive. The discussion is over, enough, respectable colleagues, enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u295	Vladimir Mihajlović, well, first of all, the Rules clearly record the procedure. If someone disagrees with the amendment, he should make an amendment to the amendment. This was not done by the committee, so what has now happened is illegal. On the other hand, the third reading procedure begins when there was some disagreement in the second reading. What kind of disagreements? The amendments have been voted on, and it's over. On what basis was the third reading voted on if it was agreed in the second? But once again, Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a procedure for adopting amendments. Why was this not done?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u296	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. The point is, I want to remind the honourable national MPs that the bill was not voted on with regard to the amendment. Then there was a proposal from the government, from the committee: to vote with the exception of the amendment. I put this proposal to the vote. A positive decision is made. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code is being announced for consideration. [[on ownership rights and the right to use land on a permanent basis]] Dear colleagues, before considering the law, I would like to consult with you. There are so many bills that need to be considered today. How do you feel about the offer to continue the evening session for one hour: from 18 to 19. By the way, this issue has been discussed, and it has found support on the Conciliation Council that we need to work to consider as many drafts as possible. So I'm voting on the proposal to continue the evening session until 19 hours. Please vote. [[13:33:00]] For 169 And now I'm asking the leaders of the parliamentary groups and directly the drafters of the bill after 18 hours not to rush or ask to continue their work, because your bills are not under consideration. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 6, "Regions of Ukraine" - 58, Communists - 1, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 39, "Industrious Ukraine" - 15, "The People's Government" - 7, "SPU - 18, "Deminicatives" - 1. Come on, please. Block Timoshenko - 0, Agrarian Party - 15, People's Choice - 3, NDP - 0, Postfaction - 6. Please, Lechenko Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u297	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The proposed project, I recall, proposes a part two of article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land to be published in a new edition, according to which the right of permanent use of land and state and municipal property among enterprises, institutions and organizations belonging to state and municipal property is also acquired by religious organizations and social organizations of persons with disabilities of Ukraine, their enterprises, associations and institutions. After the adoption of the bill, eight proposals and comments were received to the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations in the first reading of the bill. After consideration, two are included in the committee. accounted for in editorial form 1 and rejected 5. All negative 5 because they don't apply to the draft law adopted in the first reading. These are additional proposals that need to be made by a separate draft law. There's a note by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. His general conclusion is that the bill is subject to rejection as one that contradicts previously adopted decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such as the concepts of the legal regime for the permanent use of land as enshrined in articles 24, 25, 57, 59, 92, 116, 122, 123, 149, 150 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. But the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations believes that for religious organizations and social organizations of the disabled, Ukraine, their enterprises, associations, and institutions, the proposed changes can be made to the Earth Code. I propose that the committee adopt the prescribed bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u298	Thank you. Let's go, dear fellows, as amended. Amendment No. 2 of the Welder. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 3 Manchulenko. Please, it's Manchulenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u299	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! There is also my amendment and a virtually similar amendment is made by colleagues of Bubka and Safiulin. [[does not quite understand why it is rejected by the committee]] I would ask that some argument be given why these amendments were rejected by the committee. On the other hand, I call on my fellow MPs to vote for my amendment and the amendment of Safiulin and Bubba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u300	The committee declined because, again, I repeat, the first reading of these facilities and sports buildings did not go well. This is a matter for a separate bill. In addition, state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sports and sports facilities used for purpose. This question is settled. For them, in this bill, where enterprises, institutions and organizations that belong to the state and municipal forms of property use the right of permanent use. That's why it's been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u301	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to pay attention, and I'm now addressing the authors of the eighth amendment of Safiullin and Bubba, because they are completely interconnected. I don't understand why in preparing the table, you didn't make it a single amendment. So let's not vote twice, we're going to give Safiullin a word and then we're going to figure out the third and eighth amendments as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Convincing request for support for the amendment made by Manchulenko. One more time, our deputy. We've both been supportive. It's really for the future of Ukrainian football. We couldn't convince you, frankly, that a class committee would accept this amendment. Please hold. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u303	Dear colleagues! I'm a little more specific about the author of the amendment. It's not just about football. This is about sports buildings that are used for purpose. So you don't just need football here. I'm voting on the third and eighth amendments. You are not the author of the amendment, sorry. For reasons of vote. [[From the hall. Don't hear it.]] You are not the author of the amendment. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u304	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! It's not just about football, really. Today it is said that we have good physical culture and sports or not. Are we going to bring something from the Olympics and the Paralympics, basically, that we have sports buildings or not? So I ask you very much to support sports and physical culture today. It is a reality that we have the health of the nation today. Please vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u305	I remind the people that this amendment does not apply to the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u306	I'm making a note of the people's deputy Suškević. You were not the author of the amendment, this does not apply to any motive at all. If you would object and have a different opinion, please don’t excite. The authors of the amendment proliferated. I put to the vote the third and the eighth amendments concerning sports organizations. [[13:40:04]] For 289 The third amendment, once again to the transcript, is accepted as regards sports organizations. Yes, please correct Bespalogo, six. Don't you insist? Yes, the seventh amendment. Stoyan? Don't insist. Then I put to the vote the second reading and generally as a law with the amendment that you and I have adopted, the draft Law amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Registration number 4023. Take down the vote. Please, Melniczuk, Soccer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u307	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. I'd like the entire Ukrainian people to understand, especially the peasants that I've given most of today, I'm not going to call those deputies who are here privatizing sports buildings and now get land for free use, because it's a shame and it's not about sports buildings that belong to the people, it's about the oligarchs. That's who you just voted for and gave up the land for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u308	I am voting on second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments that we have voted on, the draft Law amending article 92 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, registration number 4023. Please vote. [[13:42:23]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, this law provides for a positive standard for businesses and institutions of disabled persons and religious organizations. It'll be a shame if we completely ignore this law. Maybe the first option, as it were, let's try to vote without the additions that have practically blocked the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u310	Please, what is the government's opinion? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. We can support this proposal, which has just spoken and adopted the bill in the form that was introduced by the committee, the subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote a proposal to vote, to vote on the draft law without the amendment that we have voted on. So we're following the same pattern as we did recently with the codex. So who's in favour of voting, please vote. [[13:43:48]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u312	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that a large part of the deputies did not vote in favour of this law in general, not only because we included the sports buildings and the land they use, but because there is an extension of the use of religious organizations. So the motivation for non-voting was completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u313	Dear colleagues, the law, unfortunately, did not receive the required number of votes, rejected. There is a question of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. Second reading. Reported by the Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Government, Boris Jakovitch Bespalij. Please, Boris Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. The bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. During the preparation for the second reading, all the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert and Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council were taken into account, as well as all the amendments made. All proposals, mainly the bill, have a technical character. But there's one very meaningful one that I'm stressing. The Act on Corruption is in force, but it has yet to be adopted in the Constitution, such an anti-constitutional measure as the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers or the dismissal from election office for a number of administrative misconduct. And in accordance with the Constitution, we propose that this rule be removed. All other suggestions are of a technical nature, and the committee requests that the bill be supported in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u315	Dear colleagues, all the amendments made by the authors are included. We therefore have every reason to put to the vote, to adopt, in the second reading and in the whole of the Ukrainian Act, "To amend certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils". This is registration number 2415. Vote. [[13:46:50]] For 349 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I announce we'll be working 15 minutes longer. There is a question of the draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for the Further Exploitation of the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the 4 Energy Cloud of this AES into an Economic Security System -- second reading. [[concerning guarantees to workers]] A member of the Committee, Boyko Viktor Alexiyovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u316	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster introduces a second reading of Ukraine's draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for the Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Operation of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Station and the Transformation of the 4th Energy Cloud of the Station to the Environmental Safety System, registration number of the bill - 3641 from 18.06. 2003 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine The bill deals with the issue of granting a monthly pension allowance to non-retirement pensioners who have been released from service in connection with retirement or after the removal of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant from service for a period of one month. The committee took into account nine proposals made by entities under the law of the legislative initiative. Of these, four are included, and four are included in part. One offer rejected. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending article 12 of the law on the general principles of further exploitation and removal from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the damaged fourth block of the station into an environmentally sound system, registration number 3641 from 18.06. In 2003, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, as a matter of law. Please support, your honor, your offer, especially since this does not apply to so many of these workers, there are 58 people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u317	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposals are all taken into account, except for the offer of Cyril Polishchuk. Does the Polish guy insist on his offer? Oh, no? Then I am voting on the adoption of the second-reading bill and the whole of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on General Further Exploitation and Removal from the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the fourth energy cloud of this AES into an environmentally sound system, registration number 3541. Vote. [[13:50:29]] For-360 The law is passed. The draft Law on State Targeted Programmes, second reading, Bill 2036. First Deputy Head of the Professional Committee, Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u318	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the people. The purpose of the bill under consideration is to establish a legal framework for the implementation of State targeted programmes as a means of programme management of public policy in the priority areas of socio-economic, scientific and technical, national and cultural development of the country. The Committee considered the draft at its meeting on 16 December and decided to recommend, on second reading and in general, as a law. During the drafting of the second reading bill, 101 proposals were received to the Committee from members of the people. Of these, 33 were taken into account or taken into account editorially, and the rest were rejected. This large number of rejected proposals is due to the fact that most of them relate to the introduction of the category “local targeted programmes”. It should be noted that there is no such term in existing legislation. In addition, in accordance with article 119, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, local public administrations in the territory concerned are responsible for the implementation of State and regional social, economic and cultural development programmes, environmental programmes, and in areas where indigenous peoples and national minorities live compactly, as well as programmes for their national cultural development. The Law on State Forecasting of the Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programme, which defines the system of social and economic development forecasting and programming documents, does not contain provisions for the development of local targeted programmes. In addition, the introduction into the draft law of the definition of “local programmes” is contrary to the provisions of the Local Government Act, namely, article 26, paragraph 2, “Exclusive competence of rural, rural and urban councils”. In the case of the definition of “local targeted programmes” in the draft Law on Public Targeted Programmes, the authority of local governments will be narrowed down. The proposals and comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the General Legal Office, are taken into account in the drafting of the bill. Please adopt this bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u319	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's really quite a lot of amendments that aren't included. I'm talking to the authors. Which one of you insists that his amendment is not taken into account, and you want us to vote on it. Yes, there is. Please call. No, what an amendment, the amendment number. 2 Amendments, Wide, please. Turn on the Shirko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u320	Dear Vladimir Anatolyevich, this is not about us narrowing our acceptance. More loyally, the authority of local self - government. The point is that legislatively local programs also need to be resolved. And, let's say, your argument doesn't exactly convince me that, let's say, not counting local target programs will somehow improve this law or limit the rights of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u321	Thank you. It was our understanding that the State-specific programmes should be of particular national importance and that we should clearly divide the level of State-wide programmes and the level of regional importance programmes. It is therefore preferable to place them at the level of local self-government, at the regional level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u322	Do you insist on voting? Please put to the vote Amendment No. 2 of People's Deputies Shirko. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:55:38]] For-58 Not accepted. Who else insists? Please, Bezpali. What's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u323	Amendment 82. I consider it a principle. It is proposed that the committee monitor the targeted and efficient use of budgetary resources by special authorized public authorities in accordance with legislation. Legislation includes instructions from the same authorities. And we can already see what happens when a tax officer now checks for VAT payments to councils according to his instructions, not the law. Therefore, this amendment should be taken into account and it should be written that verification is done only within the limits established by law and not by any other act. I think the committee here could agree without any, including the vote, of course. And there's more. 85th, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u324	No, would you please agree with the 82 committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u325	Yes, I think we can agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u326	Is there no need to vote? Please, 85th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u327	I thank the committee for its tolerance, especially since my other amendments are taken into account, except for one principled one. It suggests that the decision to terminate the state-wide programmes is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is absolutely logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u328	What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u329	85th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u330	It's the 85th. But only by the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is also correct. But the question is, why can't such a decision be considered by the Council at the request of the President of Ukraine, or, for example, at the initiative of the national committee members and so forth? In my opinion, we need to rule out the words "the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" here, and then it will remain that any of the subjects of the legislative initiative can initiate this issue. We limit the rights of the people's deputies and the President, and no one else could have done that. In my opinion, it doesn't make sense that it's just Kabmin. What does the committee think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u331	I think it might be useful to say "for the submission" of the initiators of the state programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u332	Boris Yakovich, do you agree? Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u333	Thank you. Sets the application to accept logically. But if, for example, the program is broken, that's when it's accepted permanently. So we suggest that in case of failure, we can only cancel the program at the initiative of those who initiated this bad program. I mean, we can't wait for that kind of self-criticism. It would be more logical - Kabmin proposed, the Council voted, then the program was not implemented. And it could be cancelled in time by Kabmin himself, but the President could also make such an offer if he saw that the program was illogical. It's only a matter of time-out. I don't think the logic of the committee is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u334	I'm sorry, I didn't finish the phrase, including the initiation. The Cabinet of Ministers, including the submission of programme initiators.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u335	But it narrows it down anyway. Dear colleagues, I explain the situation. Boris Bespalij wants each of the legislators to have the right to make an offer to stop the program. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote. It's a constitutional norm, by the way. Vote. [[13:59:40]] For-144 The decision is not taken. Who else insists on their amendments? You don't? Then, dear colleagues, we need to put in a second reading and the whole adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes. Registration number 2036. Before the vote on the basis of Karmazin's vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u336	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for giving your word of reasons and thank you for bringing up the Constitution today. What Boris Bespali proposed today is the right of legislative initiative, which belongs to the National Bank, the government, the President, and the people's deputies. If we now, by adopting a good law, establish a constitutional mine, i.e. an anti-constitutional position, limit the rights of these people, this law at any time may be declared unconstitutional or it may be vetoed. Why would you do that? So I would have asked before the vote, taking into account our negative experience today, but the one you're already saying is already a precedent in our work, to consider this amendment to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u337	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting for acceptance in the second reading and in the entire Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes, registration number 2036. [[14:01:36]] For 304 The law is passed. The question is answered. I've announced that we're continuing for 15 minutes. You have to be careful. We have the following law before the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. Here's an amendment and it's counted. This is the registration number of Law 3163. I ask him to vote as a whole and as a law. Vote. [[14:02:17]] For 301 The law is passed. There's a question of mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners, this is a 2054 registration number. Report to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Hometinnik Vladimir Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u338	Dear People's Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Financial and Banking Activities considered at its meeting the draft Act on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Vehicle Owners, Registration No. 2054, completed for second reading. During the drafting of the bill, 328 proposals were received from members of the people, of which 231 were taken into account. The Working Group has substantially improved the bill, adopted as a basis, taking into account the proposals of the people's deputies and ministries and the authorities responsible for the matter. The adoption of this bill is necessary, as the lack of a special law on compulsory insurance prevents a proper solution to the problem of compensation for road traffic accidents. The experience of many countries around the world regarding compulsory civil liability insurance for land-based vehicle owners shows that in all cases this type of insurance has been introduced and is working successfully. In Ukraine, compulsory insurance has been provided under the Insurance Act since 1996. However, in the absence of adequate insurance policies, this type is more nominal. In addition to the second reading, the structure of the Motor Transport Bureau was defined and a more transparent mechanism for managing centralised insurance reserves was introduced. One of the main questions that has been is the insurance policy rates. We agreed that the insurance policy should not change compared to today's situation. Today's insurance policy is 100 bracelets. Therefore, the bill also remains for a transitional period. And a correction factor is introduced that allows the insurance policy at a level significantly lower than the base rate in rural areas and in small towns. Taking into account the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a draft law on compulsory civil liability insurance on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u339	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I address those who have made adjustments, and they are unaccounted for. Which one of you insists on taking these amendments into account? There aren't any? Then I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. Registration number 20 54. In the second reading and in general, please vote. [[14:06:02]] For-200 The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u340	Please re-read.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u341	Who's in favour of repositioning the second reading, please vote. [[14:06:28]] For 251 Decision taken. We're going to re-read it. There's the Ukrainian Automobile Development Act in Ukraine with the President's proposals. Please, the First Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration, Voschevsky Valeriy Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u342	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. According to part two of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine, with his proposals, the Ukrainian Automobile Industry Development Act for review by the Supreme Council. The Law on the Development of the Automobile Industry, adopted by the Supreme Council on 5 February 2004, is not signed by the President of Ukraine and is reviewed on the basis of the following: Article 4 of the Law proposes to identify the country of origin of cars, motorcycles and or spare parts to cars in accordance with articles 277, 270 of the Customs Code of Ukraine. According to the Customs Code, a country of origin is defined for the purpose of applying tariff and non-tariff measures to regulate the import of goods into and exit from the customs territory of Ukraine. The criteria used for this are of a general nature, which is intended for a wide range of goods and therefore cannot be used for an objective assessment of the product produced by a particular manufacturer. Article 4 is proposed as follows: “Definition of the country of origin of automobiles, motorcycles, assembly, spare parts”. For the purposes of this law, Ukraine is considered the country of origin of motor vehicles, whether assembled or spare parts, provided that such vehicles and spare parts are costed. [[motorcycle]] Nodes and details, origin is less than 50 percent of the price. The manufacturer's factory. And the request to take four technological operations into account. A request to support and vote on this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u343	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a note, a proposal by the President. The committee agrees with the president's proposal, considered it. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Automotive Development Act in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals, registration number 3677. Take down the vote, Motive Dust.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u344	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President has made the right suggestion that the benefits should be paid only by enterprises whose share of the production is 50 percent of Ukrainian goods. Unfortunately, the President did not see that there was a rule in this law in the near-term that two businesses in Ukraine would not have this rule distributed, and two businesses in Ukraine would have the right not to pay taxes on added value, import duties, land taxes, other types of taxes. We're actually creating offshore zones. So there is now a proposal not to support this law, to develop a law that gives benefits to all Ukrainian producers, including Zaporziski and Lvivski, and to ban the possibility of not using these areas as offshore zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u345	Thank you. I'm voting on the Ukrainian Automobile Industry Development Act in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 3677]] Vote. [[14:10:53]] For 207 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? The factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u346	Please, Saint.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u347	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a question. Is the question out of the question or not? Please respond, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u348	I've just come up, it's hard for me to figure out since I've had a meeting with the judges. So let's take a look at the essence of the question. Sergey Burjak, please, from the committee. No, there's a committee proposal. What the committee will say. Well, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u349	.supporting the domestic manufacturer. So we propose that this law be put to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-18-m0.u350	Wait! Let the committee tell us what his vision is. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let us continue our work at 16 hours, and the committee would like to determine its position on this matter.
