ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:02]] They registered in the 408 National Deputies Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Petrov Viktor Borisovich. Let us greet him, wish him good health and every success. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ratushnjak Sergija Mikolajovic, as part of the Ukrainian National Agrarian Party. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 18th. 18 questions have been considered, sorry, December 23rd, yesterday. 18 issues of the agenda - 13 bills, six draft regulations and proposals by the President of Ukraine - have been discussed. As a result of the review, eight laws have been passed, including the Ukraine Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. One bill has been rejected. Two questions have been moved. Three orders passed, three motions rejected. The veto of the President of Ukraine has been overtaken by one law. One law was passed in a new edition. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a meeting schedule for today. Where it is written at 12 o’clock that the Constitutional Court judge Gabriel Stepan Bogdanović swears, the matter is being examined today. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I'd like you to sign up for the address. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Oleg BILORUS to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to bring responsibility to the persons responsible for the factory of the Cabinet of Ministers' protocol for the consideration of the project “Agreements for the formation of the Single Economic Space”. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria SAMOPLAV are under the prime minister's responsibility in ignoring the Cabinet of Ministers' requests for the purchase of treatment travel for black people, the purchase of medicines, medical equipment and a formal approach to information on this matter by the national MPs. Victor DIVORCE under the prime minister’s responsibility to eliminate the imbalance in the pension security of military personnel released from the ranks of the Armed Forces in various years. Mr Derkača and Mr Prášenka are under the prime minister's responsibility to verify the performance of the requirements of effective legislation when appointing the Head and members of the National Communications Regulation Commission, as well as the legality of the issue by the Head of the Board of Staff Regulations. Jury CARMAZIN to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence for the systematic abuse of the Odessa City Head and officials of the Ministry of Health, the commission of corruption, the brutal violation of the requirements of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of reducing the network of public health facilities through housing on the territory of the anti-tuberculosal sanatoriums “Lustdorf”, “Green Branch” and “Hajibei”, boarding schools No.34 and 87 on the treatment of mentally retarded children and persons with visual impairment with the actual destruction of these facilities, the cessation of non-target use of the land of recreational assignment. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Acting Prime Minister on the availability of budgetary appointments in the State budget of Ukraine for 2005 to implement the provisions of the ratified Ukraine Regional or Minority Charter and to provide the Council of Europe with a letter on the ratification of the Charter. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to Deputy Prime Minister John Kirilenko for violating the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on reform of the agricultural sector. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco for dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request for the preservation of a history monument to the soldiers of the liberators in the city of Turupinske Hersson. MICHELLE RED to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco on violations of the rights of children's specialized anti-tuberculosis sanatorium “Barvinka” to raise salaries in connection with health-threatening working conditions. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General on the illegal alienation of property and land of the Institute of Mathematics of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. The Valery of SAMPLAV MICHALI SHERSHUN to the Attorney General on the self-absorbing of the land of the Yaltin Forest Nature Reserve. People of Kirichenko to the Attorney General, Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the legality of the grounds for the National Rescue Committee in the House of the Federation of Trade Unions on the Street of Majdan Independence, 2. Vitalia HOMUTINIKA to the Attorney General on the verification of the procedures for the granting of permits for the construction of small architectural forms in the centre of Kiev and the implementation of measures to support the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, for legal evaluation of the publication of telephone texts in the media, including the names of officials of the public authorities. Vassila RVONIA to the Attorney-General for the violation of a criminal case based on the massive interference of officials of the Rokitnian District State Administration in the election of the President of Ukraine. Vladimir SIMONOVA to the Attorney General on the establishment of the “Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists” self-defence groups of Roman Shuhevich in Western Ukraine. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney General for the violation of Ukrainian law enforcement by the Dniprovsky Department of Internal Affairs in Kiev. Vladimir SKOMAROVSKI to the Attorney-General on the inaction of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region and the absence of any response to more than 30 allegations of crimes committed during the elections of the President of Ukraine. Anatolia GREZJEVA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the appeal of members of the Agrocombinat “Kalita” to non-compliance with legislation in the calculation of the enterprise for the use of land rations. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney General for the violation of effective law by the investigators of the Shevchenkov District Attorney’s Office of Kiev and the investigators of the Shevchenkov District Department of the Department of Internal Affairs in Kiev. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice for the Renewal of Deprived Rights of the Residents of House No.4 on the Street of Grodecko in Kiev, as a result of the activities of a limited-liability association “Legal Assistance Centre” and the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensic Experts. JOURIA ARTEMENKA to the Attorney General for bringing officials to justice for failing to meet the legal requirements of the Ukrainian national deputies and for creating obstacles to their work. Valeria SAMOPLAVSKI AND MICHALI SHERSHOON to the Attorney General on the abuse of office and the dissipation of funds on a particularly large scale during the capital repair of the water supply and treatment facilities in the city of Radomisli. MIKOLI TOMENKA to the Attorney General, the National Television and Radio Board, in connection with the systematic distribution of information on the air of the Luhansk Cable Company, which ignites international hostility and promotes the cult of violence and cruelty. Mr Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General on the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Administration of Justice, the tax inspection of the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska for violating the Ukrainian law on the election of the President of Ukraine. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Attorney General for violations of legislation in the construction of residential buildings in Chernigov. Mr. Vladimir Skomarovski to the Attorney General about the embezzlement of the city’s housing fund and the allocation of funds from the budget of the city of Winnice by the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Winnitsky region and its first deputy. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on numerous violations of the legislation of the Ministry of Transport and Liaison during the term of Minister George Kirpa’s office. [[PAUL, LUCENKO, and others. Total 17 deputies]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General on violations by employees of the so-called “rightful authorities” of constitutional rights, freedoms and interests of residents of the village of Verbovec of the Katerinopil region of Cherkapil region, checks of the killing and killing of citizens, violations of the inviolability of housing, the excess of authority and official powers, obstacles to the conduct of pre-election campaigns, threats to the murder and destruction of foreign property. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection regarding the promotion of Ecology - 2005 programmes in the Hersonian region. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Science and Education for the provision of a bus to ensure the transport of students to the village of Maryanivka, the Križopil district of Winnitsk. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for failure by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to implement the decision of the Supreme Council on ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. [[RACHAN, SIMONENKO, RIBACK]] Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Human Rights Commissioner for the violation of constitutional rights in the city of Kyiv Pecher district. Yurya BOJKA to the Head of the National Bank on the gradual, to the extent of weariness, the removal from the circulation of cash stamps introduced by Sergey Tihypk, and the return to the printing of coupons developed by the deserving artist of Ukraine by Vasil Lopeta, who have a national character and color. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service, Attorney General, on the financial abuse of subcontractors working with the State Enterprise Chernobyl AES. [[SCHOOL, PHILENA, PAVLENA]] Michael DOBKINA to the Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, on the facts of the violation of the basic principles of justice. ANDRYA SCHOOL TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration for the arbitrary and disrespectful treatment of individual officials of the State Tax Administration against taxpayers. Lesya THANJUKA to the procurator of the Zakarpatsk district for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Valery OF LEBEDIV AND ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the procurator of the Kirovograd district for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. JOURIA KLECHKOVSKOVSKI to the prosecutor of the district of Zitomir, the prosecutor of the Lugansk region, for the purpose of conducting an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Petra YUSCHENKA to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district for the examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovsk district for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. MIKOLI POLICHUCA AND Aleksandra CRONOVOLENKA to the prosecutor of Zaporezki district for the conduct of an examination of the order for the permanent residence and residence of citizens. Alexander MOROZA to the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate, Head of the State Committee for the Protection of Work with regard to the verification of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation and legislation for the protection of the work of the production and commercial society with limited responsibility of the Argo village of Shilovci, the Hotin region of Cherniewec. Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKO to the Head of the U.S. Supreme Court for the violation of Ukrainian law by the judge of the local court of the Dniprov district of Herson Wadzinski. Mr. Aleksandra CRONOVOLENKO to the Attorney General for the prosecution of the political motives of counsel Vasuk. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General for responding appropriately to parliamentary requests for protection of civil rights of a student at the Baranjuk University of Law. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General on the need for immediate procuratorial intervention in a situation that involved the payment of wages to the workers of a sewing factory called Chubara. Jury CARMAZINA and other national deputies to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Environmental Protection, the head of the Odessa District State Administration for the immediate operation of the conservation of the Black and Azov Sea Hydrometeorological Centre, which is located on the street of the French Boulevard, 89, Odessa City and its improper transfer to the state-owned enterprise "Science-Manufacturing Environmental Protection Union" for the purpose of preventing construction in its territory of other objects and the transfer of the specified air-conditioning station to organizations, including commercial activities that are not related to the meteorological activity and recognition of its non-representative nature. Jury SOLOMATANA to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the immediate examination of a documentary report on the operation in Ukraine of an unknown source of electromagnetic radiation for the purpose of managing the psychological state and behaviour of people during the election campaign of President Ukraine. VALLERY TO THE EXERCISE duty of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights of Ukrainian citizens in the assignment of pensions to scientific and medical personnel. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the law in force in the process of selling VAT shares to Krivoriztal. Thus, all the parliamentary requests that have come at this time have been made. In total, 52 parliamentary inquiries were made, including the faction "Our Ukraine" - 22. The Communist faction is 8. "Regions of Ukraine" - 3. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party is 1. "Urrigible Ukraine" - 1. [[united]] People's agrarian - 3. The Socialist Party is 7. Block Timoshenko - 5. SPTP NPB - 1. Postfaction minus 1. Thus, 52 parliamentary requests have been made. Dear National Deputies! We have speeches from the national MPs. I'm sorry. Please put the list of national deputies on the sign-up sheet. Boki Ivan Sidorovich faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, to prepare Andrea Poliita, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u2	It's a side faction of socialists. Today, yesterday, the other night in our faction, many of our deputies have literally broken up their phone. This is about the fact that in many places in Ukraine there is a signature card and a portrait of Alexander Moroz, a very beautiful portrait that is directed against Victor Yashchenk and agitates naturally to vote for the candidate, for his opponent. I don't think there's a lot to comment on here, I can only say, Alexander Frost is too serious a politician to go left and right with such statements so everyone has to understand that this is a dirty fake used by the opponents of Victor Yushchenk to get 26 numbers in less votes, I think it's all going to be the other way around. And I came out here to say a few words about this. In the last days, as we observe from the ship’s control, rats are fleeing looking for new burrows. And some rats have shown special activity, in particular, we've already seen on the screens of some of the TV channels and in the press an ex-representative interview with the president's head, Vasil Baziwa. As a person who once gave way to Vassil Baziov's great journalistic work, I think I should say a few words, but there are people in this room who are also involved in the political fate of Vasil Andryovich. This is, in particular, Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys and, I think, our Head of the Supreme Council is somehow involved in the politics of Vasil Andryovich. So I have to say that these statements, they don't need special comments as well as things that point to this person's morale. But I'm surprised, in particular, at the extreme cynicism of Vasil Baziwa, when he claims, for example, that "I knew long ago that Yushchenko would become president." Well, if you knew, why did you pour dirt? Or, "To make Yushchenko a messiah, a true messiah without paws, he may have had to die and be resurrected as a true messiah over two thousand years ago, and he actually succeeded because he certainly came back from that world. He's become a real messiah, an icon, as far as I'm concerned." I think that Victor Andriyovich should simply be baptized from such praises as cynicism of the highest degree. For the sake of clarity, I will not talk much to anyone, but I will read only one verse of Basil Stus. It sounds like, "That's enough blood," said the cat when the knife, driven under my ribs, held it in my back." And I thought, all bleeding from the pain, that as he comes in and treats me."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u3	Andrew Polit, Communist faction, please. He's handing over Georgi Korniovich Kručkov. Michael Tomenko will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Kruczko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u5	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. In connection with statements made recently by some national MPs, media outlets have reported that the Russian Black Sea Fleet in Sevastopol had sold weapons that had been transmitted to some regions, particularly the Donetsk region, by illegal formation. Our committee at yesterday's meeting addressed this issue. The authorities of the Ministry of Defence and the Security Service of Ukraine reported that all specific signals, specific facts, had already been verified, but none of the allegations had been verified. This is also true of the provocative statements made by some officials, such as an outlaw with high military claims regarding the position of the Ministry of Defence and its leadership in connection with the recent events of the capital city and other cities of Ukraine. Armed forces are unfailing in their adherence to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The committee was tasked with reporting this to the Supreme Council. At the same time, taking into account the urgency of the situation and the seriousness of the claims to remove any doubt, the committee proposes to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to be entrusted with conducting parliamentary investigations into the proliferation of arms sales claims. The project is given to you, dear colleagues. Let us ask the leaders of the MP factions and groups to make their comments and suggestions regarding the candidates for the commission. Also, in view of the situation surrounding the re-election of the President of Ukraine under the influence of provocative statements, a dangerous effort by certain forces to engage the forces in political opposition, the committee proposes to accept such a request from the Supreme Council to the citizens of Ukraine. Respectable fellow countrymen. On December 26, this year, a re-election of the President of Ukraine will take place. The Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its confidence that Ukrainian citizens will demonstrate high civil awareness in the elections, freely determine their choice. This will be of great importance for the consolidation and strengthening of democratic principles, understanding and harmony in our society. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considers any attempt to destabilize the situation during the elections to be unacceptable, to undermine society. Especially dangerous are efforts to involve military forces, internal forces of the Ministry of the Interior, other forces in the political opposition. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the defenders of the country, public order, constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens to resist provocation, to abide by the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u6	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I would like to state on behalf of Victor Yushchenk's block and Victor Yushchenk's central campaign headquarters that, during today's election campaign, our command did not produce any polygraph or so-called postcards, and did not disseminate any polygraphic information on behalf of Victor Yushchenk in connection with any of the events. Today, in Ukraine, millions of dollars are being spent on political production on behalf of Victor Yushchenk to commercial leaders, threatening to be jailed. To those who held positions of office, they would be relieved of their positions. The worst thing about this situation is not even that Janukovich's team is already afraid to use his last name, but he's using the name Victor Yushchenk, but he's still trying to break the election. Letters on how to fill the ballot correctly are now being distributed in three versions throughout Ukraine. In the meantime, the rallies of Yanukovic are open. What is it? They say, as long as you're Yushchenka, vote for Yushchenka "yes", and Janukovich, delete. Of course, such a ballot will be invalid and unfortunately this is done in the presence of presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovic, and none of the police or law enforcement authorities think that this is a perfectly normal thing. Once again, we officially state that no polygraph of this content has been released, and we demand that appropriate institutions respond to this and false information, one that undermines the electoral campaign. Second position. We're concerned that Viktor Yanukovich's future political career is now being pursued by very few political forces and, you see, the faction of "Regions", the SDPU is practically absent. But we are ready to find a place for Viktor Yanukovic in Parliament. But for him, we know it's politics. Not Zubanov should withdraw his parliamentary mandate, but the people who associate with his team. If Taras Crnowil or Nestor Schufric, or Raisa Bogatyrov, give up the MP's mandate for Yanukovich and Janukovich will be in this district, I think we will support that position. And finally. You know, we hear a lot of interesting revelations during the election campaign. And Victor Janukovic said that he had recently prayed and two visions came to him: a terrible Ukraine in prayer and a beautiful Ukraine. I am absolutely convinced that it was good for him and sincere prayer, and if Victor Janukovic is so often present in the Church and prays, I think he will do everything with us and with this country to have a beautiful Ukraine, not a scary Ukraine, which he has recently seen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u8	Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda, Communist faction. Please. Ah, Volodymyr Puzakov is passing it on. Please, Vladimir Puzakov, then Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u9	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The domestic explosive situation in the country is getting worse every day. Ukraine is in danger of losing its independence. And all of this is happening at the sudden, unceremonious intervention of the United States and Poland in order to bring America's Presidential Throne to a standstill, thereby resolving the issue of Ukraine's transformation by its economic contribution, in one word, Ukraine has become a haven in the implementation of the American doctrine in the pursuit of the strategic interests of the United States. I'd like to get an honest answer from these fighters, who they really are, and say to them, [[in quotes]] "Don't fool people, don't make yourself a defender of the people. You don't have to show your hands in front of the TV screen, because they're really dirty, though you do all the dirty things with your hands, with your friends' hands, which is why they're sitting in jail. Today you have an orange color, but it's going to change, it's going to depend on those who pay more." Dear voters, I would like to address you: Stand up for your country's protection, don't yield to sweet promises. You don't understand why thousands of people are involved in the orange action, using dirty advertising technologies, giving out populist promises, and the most dangerous thing is involving students, schoolchildren, those who are just at the threshold of life. People of the older generation, have you forgotten how in the years of the war women and children were shown before the wars? Similarly today, the leaders of the so - called orange revolution are calling themselves friends of the people. Why are those who have robbed millions covered with young hearts? I appeal to the Ukrainian people: stand up for the fate and health of your children, warn them of dangerous steps, and do everything you can to ensure that your children’s lips later do not be blamed or scolded for giving them timely advice. On December 26, make a wise decision: Become a wall behind a stable and sovereign Ukraine for the happy future of your children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u10	Instead of Peter Stepanovich Zybenka, Vladimir Lechchenko is speaking. Please. Get ready for Mikoli Polishku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u11	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! There is the idea that the Mafia is immortal, and this confirms the practice. It would seem that in Ukraine, as if in the heat, or in the yellow, or perhaps in the orange, of a revolution, different criminal-oligarchy clans are fighting violently for power, not for life, but for death. No, they are instantaneously united in support of some or other corporate interests. The most recent example is yesterday's vote for the election of the judge of the Corbeau District Court of the Chernigiv district of Nikolayenka. Who is Nikolainka? A professional, about 17, works in law enforcement agencies, including a judge of the court for more than 10 years. He had no comments on his work, and he did not violate the law. He was careless not to follow the direction of a certain group, whose interests were actively defended by one of Ukraine’s national deputies, and in doing so, the judicial career unlawfully, insolently interrupted. To make others think. Who, then, is represented by that national MP? It's a Kuchma post office in a district in the president's small homeland, and you could always see it behind Kuchma's back. He was always with Ludmila Kuchma. I mean, it's 100 percent of the person in power of Kuchma, a member of the pro-presidential majority in Parliament. Who supported him in dealing with Nicholas? Those who struggled with the Bush authorities allegedly for honest authority did not vote in favour of the election of Nikolaynka on an untimely basis "Our Ukraine" - 90 national deputies, SPI - 12, BUT - 15. You can see that man has been dealt with by those who seem to be struggling for honest authority with those with whom they are fighting. Where are their arguments? None. All the institutions that prepared for the election of Nikolaynka to the judge of the Corbeau District Court were uninterruptedly positive. As a result, in view of not allowing the use of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a tool for the dismemberment of certain clans, the proposal, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to put to the vote the question of a return to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Judge No. 6446-1 on the election of Mr. Nikolaynek Alexander Mihajlovich as judge of the local Court of Ships on an indefinite basis. And the honest and orderly national deputies of Ukraine are asked to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u12	Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, please. No, no, now comes the first Polishman, then Mironenko. Ah, Mikola Efremovich is handing over Kachuru. Please. Victor Mironenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u13	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved, our radio listeners! It is well known that during the 2nd round of elections on November 21st, home voting became one of the technologies for falsifying citizens' will by the Kuchmi-Januković team. For example. In the Donetsk region, one of Russia’s observers estimated that the same vote took place at a rate of one and a half minutes per apartment. It is clear that such frenzys are possible only if the vast majority of ballots in portable boxes were filled with notes across from the overpowered candidate right at the corner of the constituency. In order to prevent similar abuse in the Act on the Specialities of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, on 26 December, certain steps are envisaged to regulate the voting procedure for the place of residence. In particular, the possibility of the first group unable to move on its own has been left to vote at home. It is worth noting that the changes to the law are caused by the actions of the Kuchmi-Janukovich team. Moreover, the faction of the "Regions" in the Supreme Council voted in favour of the changes to the law because they were part of a package of decisions that provided a way out of the political crisis. Therefore, the submission to the Constitutional Court by Yanukovich’s team on the unconstitutionality of the law means their withdrawal from package agreements. I would not like to mention the winged Januković’s phrase about the void. But the speed and speed of the process clearly indicate the ability of his command to keep the word. Their application to the Constitutional Court publicly states the purpose of re-election instead of re-voting. Clearly, then, submission has nothing to do with ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens and caring for voters who are physically difficult to reach. We claim that Yushchenka's headquarters, its regional and local headquarters, will help the electorate who do not have the right to vote at home and at the same time cannot get to the precincts on their own. The relevant directive is already being sent to the regional headquarters. We also urge local authorities to follow the example of the city’s Kiev head and to provide transport for the transport of such voters. We also refer to our opponent’s headquarters as a concrete example of helping to solve the problem, not speculating about its existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u14	Mironenko, a faction of Communists, has the word to prepare for Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u15	Fifth constituency, Mironenko Crimea, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Now everyone sees, the media generally support the candidate for Presidents of Yushchenko, most oligarchs support Yushchenko. The President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litwin, supports Yushchenko and many facts show this. During the period of operation of the Government of Yushchenko, China has begun to destroy the badly needed South Research Institute for Fisheries and Oceanography.” The funding of the state, which has been halved, does not adequately provide scientific support for the implementation of the Ukrainian State Fisheries Development Programme Act until 2010. The proposals from the Parliamentary rostrum entered into the 2005 State budget. Yesterday at 6 p.m., I enrolled in the 2005 plenary meeting on the State budget to save an important institution for the economy of Ukraine. However, the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litwin, prevented me from speaking, but with a good smile he spoke with my time about the record number of statements made by the pro-Deputy MEP Yushchenko. It thus contributed to the continued destruction of the institution. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin! You are probably watching on television now or already here, and I demand that the constitutional rights of the deputies not be deprived of their constitutional rights, and that the problems of the people of Ukraine be not hindered by the representatives. Not to interrupt them, but it was possible to ensure the right to speak at least the first of the four recorded ones, but you did not do so because three of them are members of the Company of Ukraine, consistently fighting against the capitalist orientation that you support. Fighters against universal privatization, price breaks, price increases, tariffs, which, thanks to your support for the oligarchs, are also being implemented. Regrettably, I must say that I repeat to you the still very important facts in your anti-constitutional activities. You have literally issued a ruling by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is a direct intervention in the cases of the Supreme Court of Ukraine concerning the outcome of the election of the President of Ukraine until the Supreme Court has taken its decision. By exerting such pressure, you also put pressure on the Attorney General's office, on all authorities. As a result, the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine is still following the instructions of the pro-American team, and you support that, Vladimir Mihajlović, and, alas, that is true. What's going on now? In the west of Ukraine, or in the centre of Ukraine, the blockades are being carried out, anti-constitutional blockades. Neither you nor the Attorney General are taking action. However, measures have been taken in the eastern regions and the southern regions, where protests have been taken to ensure that the Constitution is implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u16	Thank you. I just want to say one thing, distinguished national MPs. After the previous speech, I raised the results of the vote and it turns out that Victor Mironenko voted in favour of the decision taken by the Supreme Council on November 27th, and that's all said. Filthy. You don't? Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u17	Matveev, faction of the Ukrainian company. Please pass the word to Eshchenko Vladimiru Nikolaevich, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u18	Fucking Communist faction. Recent negotiations in Brussels between the United States and NATO's European allies marked a sharp controversy over Ukraine's presidential elections. The U.S. estimates that Western countries and their observers have been able to defend the will of the Ukrainian people through a crisis scenario in Ukraine. Meanwhile, land observers who have come to Ukraine, who have consistently used double - standard policies, have sometimes urged Ukrainians to fight for a villa and with blood to stand up for a democratic candidate, for only in their opinion can democracy be established. On this point, Communist leader Peter Simonenko stated: "I strongly condemn similar exports of democracy to Ukraine on an American model. The Hawks are already openly lobbying their interests in Ukraine. After the Baltics, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Romania, Azerbaijan and Georgia, they need Ukraine to lock up the Balto Black Sea arc. Under its influence, Ukraine, from the crossroads of trade routes, becomes the crossroads of the target. And in Iraq, by the hand of power and right of opposition, the Ukrainians already have a goal. And so far, the Supreme Council's decision to withdraw troops from Iraq has not been implemented. Regarding the presidential elections that are taking place under the American script, which the Communists have long warned the Ukrainian society about. From the clan’s opposition, the elections turned into geopolitical opposition. By pressure on Kuchma and his family over their dirty financial affairs, they forced him to work to elect Yushchenko. In search of its continuation of the regime of transformation of Ukraine from an equal subject of international relations to an object of international manipulation, as envisaged by the major American doctrine of the protection of US interests at any point in the world. So today, by expressing these thoughts by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenck, the faction of Communists openly claims that we cannot support any candidate, and we will follow up on the decision of the fourth of November of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u19	Mikhail Kosov, please. The faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u20	Mikhailo Kossov, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, our constituencies. Today, December 24, the birthday of our colleague, already deceased, the hero of Ukraine, the national hero of the Ukrainian people, Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovola. I would like to mention his name on that day, too, for every insinuation and outright lie is spreading along with that name today. Suddenly, neither of this nor the current anti - Hustnik campaign propaganda came up with the thesis that Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovil was one of the authors of the idea of the Ukrainian federalization. It's not true, it's outright slander. Yes, in September 1990, Viacheslav Crnovil, head of the Lviv District Council and the archbishop, convened the Galician Assembly of Deputies of Lviv, Johno - Frankiv, and Ternopil. But let's think about September of the 1990s: there was a whole Soviet Union and all of these structures that were fully operational. To be able in the region where he was elected as leader, to make the first democratic transformations to initiate a process of small and medium-sized business by privatizing to increase the land supply to peasants who were still working in the colonospas, just as this Galician Assembly was convened, although some people are only bringing this up to the humanitarian problems, the approval of the flag, the hymn or something else. No, it was a very serious socio-economic transformation that started this great state and political player in Galician Ukraine, which then spread throughout Ukraine. After Ukraine was declared an independent, constituency Republic, Viacheslav Czarnovil, a state that had never acted with the idea of federalization. So if someone ties his name to this completely unsuspecting idea, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u21	Yes, Stepan Bulba, please. And you're handing over Nikolainka? Please, Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, honourable citizens, distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine wanted to say that the future events that await us on Sunday are elections. We wanted to look again to our fellow citizens, to our supporters, and to say that we are calling for the support of Victor Yushchenk's second round of elections. The deal we made is we're trying to implement with the block of "Our Ukraine," with Victor Yushchenko. What we have already voted together in favour of extending the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, the fact that the provisions on constitutional reform have already been implemented shows that our intentions are serious. And I think we're the seven conditions that relate to social problems -- education, science, culture, pensions, improving relations with Russia, and so on, I think we'll all do it. And that's why we're going to vote for Victor Yushchenk and we're going to call for his support. But I'd like to go to my colleagues on the left side of the camp on occasion, which, well, notice that even the "Regions" for Yanukovich are no longer agitating, and you're still doing it. Stop. I think it's just discrediting some. As far as our budget position is concerned, our faction did not support this budget yesterday, as we are convinced that the adoption of this budget does not solve all problems. With regard to education problems, none of the provisions of education legislation, in practice, are fully implemented -- no wages, no equipment, no amount of serious budgetary education in higher education institutions, no problem of vocational education, and in the very depressed state, there is a teacher. I am deeply alarmed by what is being prepared in the government, I would like to ask the support of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the government today is preparing a veto to amend legislation on higher education issues. This third veto prepares our government instead of supporting higher education, the third veto prepares for the 400 - vote law. On January 20th, there will be a meeting of the Public Council of Education and Scientists of Ukraine. A powerful organization called Grono will be created. I call upon all Ukrainian scholars, scientists, to participate in the creation of centres of district, city, district, primary and to create a powerful public organization that will do whatever is necessary to ensure that the Constitution and laws on education and science are adhered to. And we have 28 numbers in the Teacher’s House. Welcome to New Year's Eve! Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is running out, let's get to work. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, the committee invites us to accept such an invitation to Ukrainian citizens and, perhaps more specifically, to the Ukrainian people. I've read it, Georgi Korniyovich, I'll read it again. "Dear compatriots, on December 26th of this year there will be a re-vote in the election of the President of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its confidence that Ukrainian citizens will demonstrate a high civil awareness in the elections and will freely determine their choice. This will be of great importance for the consolidation and strengthening of democratic principles, understanding and harmony in our society. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considers any attempt to destabilize the situation during the elections to be unacceptable, to undermine society. Especially dangerous is the attempt to involve military forces, internal forces, and other forces in the political opposition. The Supreme Council calls on the defenders of the country and civil order, the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, to resist provocation, whoever tries to do so, to abide by the requirements of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine." No warnings about this text? Well, then, dear fellows, I'm going to put the vote on putting the matter in order of the day. Please mobilize. On the inclusion of the draft reference to the Ukrainian people. Please vote. [[10:53:15]] For 312 We've included the questions in the agenda. Dear colleagues, there is no warning against voting for this document, there are some technical clarifications: "citizens of Ukraine" there to replace the words "Ukrainian people". No objections? Puts the vote to the vote. "Ukrainian People" under the Constitution. It is up to the vote to accept the entire draft appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian people. Please vote. [[10:53:57]] For 328 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We have document 6431 for inclusion in the agenda. I'll read it to you now. A draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the reasons for the unsatisfactory state of the public procurement system and to verify the possible abuse of the official status of the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that after this problem has been resolved, I have made a request to Prime Minister Mikli Janović Azarov with the appropriate letter. They cancelled all those tenders that were already held in 2005 and agreed that comprehensive decisions would be made. So maybe we don't have to create a commission of inquiry. If necessary, Osika's author, please. No, we haven't put him in the agenda yet. We need to do it now. It's about the motives for getting into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It's not about any tenders in Minhvos, it's a drop in the sea. We put and discuss here the commission of inquiry on matters of great importance, I think, in accordance with one presidential decree with the President's second decree. This is the area of at least 35-40 billion dollars a year of government procurement, which is done by every central executive authority, district executives, cities, state enterprises, legislation is outdated, procedures are not transparent, but we in the same room are telling us how to take additional funds, how to reduce imports, so this is the question, Reverend Vladimir Mikhajlovich, that we should figure out first of all what we have, what legislation, including notice. In order for the Supreme Council to accept and make a new procurement system. Thank you. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Since there is an insistence, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft decree 6431 on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the reasons for the unsatisfactory state of the public procurement system and on the verification of the possible abuse of the official status of the matter. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:57:08]] For 251 "For" is 251. The decision is made. Yuri Carmazin, please. By factions, by factions. Dear colleagues, if someone has been offended to create a commission immediately. So let's not blackmail the faction. Calm down. "Our Ukraine" is 72, "Regions" is 28. Communists are 3. SDPU(o) - 28 National agrarian - 10. "The only Ukraine" is 19. C.O.P. - 20. Block Timoshenko - 19. Labour Ukraine and NDP 10. "Soyuz" is nine. Democratic initiatives are 12. "Centre" - 11. Postfaction is 10. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u26	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Ukrainian people! This is certainly a matter of national security. The amount of money that goes to government purchases is a matter of security. The state of compliance with the legislative requirements governing the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of government funds has been systematically investigated, but selectively by financial authorities. As all control materials show, the number of violations is quite impressive. For example, in 2003, government audit agencies carried out checks on government spending on goods, jobs and services for more than 10,000 enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property, with a total of over 7.2 billion dollars in budget spending on the purchase of goods, jobs, and services to be used in public procurement. It has been established that the budget managers of all levels are not fully secured by the implementation of current legislation when they purchase government funds for an amount of 293,9 million dollars. In general, the use of public funds for the purchase of goods, jobs, and services has been disrupted by 2,000,326 items, or nearly 1 in 5 of the examiners. The public procurement control functions for today are being carried out by a specially authorized central executive authority on the coordination of purchases of goods, jobs and services, which is the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, which is also responsible for this mechanism being opaque. The problems of the public procurement system have been repeatedly addressed by national deputies and committees of the Supreme Council, such as the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. This problem was also highlighted by the media. Yet this situation has not improved, and it remains very unsatisfactory. Only after the intervention of the Head of the Supreme Council, to which a group of more than 30 national deputies addressed, have tenders at the Ministry of Health, which were held in December totalling more than 700 million dollars. Think about it, 700 million dollars in December, which is budgeted, which is not yet available. And what we analyzed and what happened in the same purchases and in the Ministry of Defense. Georgi Korniyovich, I would like the committee to also control this. According to the code, the purchase of arms and military equipment, which allocates 14 million dollars each. the money from the budget program. We bought 110 Octavia cars for 10 million. 994,000. - this is now, November 2004. The tender was performed brilliantly with only one man who offered. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u27	Sit down, Yuri Anatoliyovich, although I have a question for the authors: where is the composition of the commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u28	There's no such thing as a fraction. We must not violate the Rules and submit the composition of the Commission in proportion to the number of factions and groups. And it says here, read what you're determined to write. Did the committee of Matthew consider the decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u29	It's not just Demyokin, it's a regular question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u30	What kind of correction? Is there no ingredient? What voice? Let's do it this way. You prepare the warehouse now, and then we'll get back to it. Who am I talking about? Shall we vote in the air? There's no warehouse! I'm not blocking! I repeat, the first precedent when we create an air commission. Please prepare the composition of the commission and we will be back in half an hour to consider the matter. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u31	At least in five minutes, as soon as the commission's ready. Please prepare a list of the members of the committee. Stratovitch microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u32	Strutovich, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, yesterday before dinner we considered, I think, the archival issue of Registration No. 6327. This is about a draft decree to verify the legality of the decisions of Kyivrada and to distribute 200 hectares of conservation and resort land under Kiev. Ten votes were not enough. Adam Ivanovich, this is a direct fact of corruption. The decree applies to the Supreme Council to vote on the commission of a committee in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Committees, which acts on behalf of the Supreme Council. And we were asked to carry out this test. I beg of you, Your Honor, let's put the order of the day into order and make the right decision. And we're going to check you out in January, and we're going to inform you at the beginning of February, how legitimate the transfer of acres of land from six hectares to two hectares of highlanders is, and how appropriate the law is. And this, for one thing, will be a guarantee to those high - ranking owners who have received it, that no one will have any claim to them in the future, and they will be legitimate land users. I ask you to support this inclusion of 6327 yesterday's agenda, Adam Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the problem is understood. We looked at it yesterday, we didn't have enough votes. I'll put it to a vote. Although Vladimir Mikolaiovich said that this could be done without the commission of the Supreme Council. But I'm going to put to the vote who, in order to return to question 6327, please be sure. [[11:04:23]] For 190 We're not going back. I repeat, you don't get the word. Let the Budget Committee report, you don't share the budget. Please, by the factions. “Our Ukraine” - 80, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 45, SDPU - 1, National Agrarian Party - 22, SPU - 19, “One Ukraine” - 0, Timoshenko - 12, “Soyuz” - 0, “Hard Ukraine” - 1, “NDP and SPTU - 1, “Centre” - 6, “Deminicatives” - 0, “Flock” - 4. But, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, you yourself said there was no tragedy. You, a committee that has the right to do what you ask of us. You, as it were, will voluntarily do so to the extent of your professional responsibilities and the functions of the committee. I think it'll all be right. Yes, Your Honor, there was still a proposal in the speeches for Bill 6451 -- a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate media-promoted allegations of the sale of weapons by illegal forms created in certain areas. I'm voting for the inclusion in agenda 6451. Please vote. [[11:06:11]] For 171 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 51, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, Communists - 54, Social Democrat - 27, National Agrarian Party - 1, "One Ukraine" - 1, Socialists - 19, Tymoshenko - 3, "Trud Ukraine", "Soyuz", "Democratic Initiatives" - Zero, "Centre" - 5, non-fractional - 9. Dear colleagues, wait, wait. There's another offer here, but, but. Here is the proposal of the national deputies of Petrov, Samoylik, Safiulina, to amend the Government Budget Act for 2004. But since I don't see any representatives of the budget committee, they'll come along and we'll figure it out. Are you from the committee? I'm not interested in your committee. I'm interested in the budget committee. You don't share the budget. There'll be representatives of the budget committee, then we'll define. Yes, Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, well, apparently these two decrees didn't get votes, because the people there went a little apart after the statements. So you can even put them two together. We've been taking things and not that kind of stuff. And two separate ballots: the one Stretovic proposed and the one Krutchev proposed. I'm happy to support both the first and the second, because the question is, in society it hangs, under Kiev in Conchi Sole, 1,200 people are, they're brought here by buses. I want the authorities to go there, and they're not in a hurry to say that there's nothing. In Lugansk, hunting weapons were bought five years in advance. So let's check it out. There's no problem, let's vote in the package or, as you wish, in the package, Adam Ivanovich. It's normal, it's democratic and it's good for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u35	Let's not have any more kits or packages. 170 is 170, unfortunately, votes. You should've made up your mind. Yeah, we're going after the order of the day. There's a bill on the status of rural, urban heads. [[of the village]] The bill's registration number is 5743. Reports the secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Bespali Boris Jakovic. Please, Boris Jakovitch, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u36	Why 5? This law does not follow the abbreviated procedure of Adam Ivanovich. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I have the honour to present to you the draft Ukrainian Law on the Status of Rurals, Urban Heads, which was introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, members of our faction Victor Yushchenk, Mikola Katerinczuk, well, and I will report as author in this case. The necessity of this law arises from the Constitution of Ukraine, which is directly provided for in article 141 of the Constitution. I pay your attention, my fellow countrymen, that the head of the village council is, of course, a man, but it's also a one-man local self-government body. [[rural]] Other bodies are local councils and their executive bodies. And all of these organs are formed by the territorial community. The second reason for this bill is that it can protect people, protect the interests of local self - government, and protect them. Thus, such an important category as rural, urban heads are still in need of protection. [[rural]] Their defenselessness has already become an illustration in their tongues. Apparently, even in the Kyiv region, it is enough to refer to Kozin, the Highlands, the Basilsks, and the Brovars to see how they are not being persecuted by repetitive government officials. The law is fundamental, fundamental, and contains three basic chapters. The first chapter is the head as a representative of the interests of the territorial community. Indeed, the village, village, city head is a senior official in the territorial community, and the responsibilities and responsibilities arising out of his status are a single set of powers, and this is the first chapter. The other one. The head is a representative of the interests of the electorate. In fact, this is because the head is elected directly, and despite the fact that there are MPs of city, rural, village councils, district councils in the cities, but the head also works with the electorate, he's an elected office, not just the head of the post. And as in the election office, he also reports, so he makes inquiries to the authorities, that is, this is a self - fledged circle of powers. The third key is the activity of the head in the council and its organs. Indeed, according to our legislation, the village, the city’s head presides over the council, presides over its executive bodies. And this is a self-implementation block. Finally, two chapters -- general positions and status -- are also very important. Status changes are essential. For example, is it not the curiosity that, until now, for example, a farmer’s head is forbidden to work even in his own household, unlike his fellow countrymen? I'm giving you one example. That's why we think we should. I quote article 2.7 of the bill, introduced by Yashchenk, Katerinczuk and Bespali, which is not considered to be an entrepreneurial activity in their own individual farm, profit from it. Finally, the problem of putting an end to the long - term mandate of rural, rural, and urban heads needs to be addressed and protected. The first thing we're proposing is that they can't be released, on the one hand, just like that, for no reason; on the other hand, they can still be accountable to the community. Thus, a number of precautions are proposed. First of all, if we speak and accuse them of breaking the law, it should be predetermined by a court rather than by someone who has been lured, someone has seen something, someone has succeeded, and the question of putting an end to the term of office is immediately raised. The mechanism is quite interesting about attracting criminal responsibility, proposed by Valérie Assadchev, a deputy from Our Ukraine, especially for local council members. So that, on the one hand, there is no attraction as self - justice and self - determination. And on the other hand, there wouldn't be such an option when your hand washes, it's suggested. At first, the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office turn to the Council at an appropriate level. For example, rural, rural, urban. The Council is considering the matter. If he gives consent, he gives. If he does not agree, the prosecutor may appeal to a higher-level council, all the way to the Supreme. Thus, all interests will be assured. Finally. The Law was meant to be full enough, so it concentrates virtually all the rules of other laws relating to the fullness, the authority of rural, rural, and urban heads. The bill was supported, and we distributed it widely and everyone familiar with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. All those involved in the discussion could do so. Only partial remarks were made because the bill was actually aimed, on the one hand, at protecting the rights of voters and the territorial community, and on the other, at protecting and granting full status to rural, rural and urban heads. There's a note from the Science and Technology Department. In part, we agree with them, partly not. The committee supported it. I think they'll support the MPs. And another important thing. As we prepared the bill, we found that there were hundreds of different laws that referred to a village, a village, a city head in one form or another. Many of them -- about half of them -- have been worked, but the rest of them haven't, so in preparing for the second reading, the bill will be largely complemented by the fact that all legislative stories relating to rural, rural, urban heads are reflected in this law. And accordingly, comments will be made when the law on changes to the Constitution 3207, which applies to local self - government, becomes effective. Thank you for your attention and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u39	Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please light up on the board. Three minutes. Manchulenko. Get ready, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u40	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Boris Jacobovich! Without a doubt, the need for this law is evident, since there have been many instances in practice when rural, rural, urban, and urban heads were retired and the issue remained unresolved, and who would have to carry out their responsibilities in this situation before choosing a new head. But I don't quite understand the position of Leonid Kuchma, who promised this law, and what he did in this situation. Rather, it is an absolutely illegal practice when the President appoints a city head there, performing duties of the city’s head, as it had little place in Odessa, and in Zakarpatta, particularly in Mukachevo, not better when the issue is settled in the legal field, but in order to avoid such situations when there are actually illegal presidential orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u41	Thank you. In that part concerning Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, he or his representative in the Supreme Council may answer. I can tell you from the authors of the Yushchenka and Katerinczuk bill, as well as the point of view of the committee. We believe that this issue should be clearly and clearly settled by law, and we offer this option. The other one. It is for the secretary of the council to exercise these powers of rural, rural, urban headship. On the other hand, electoral legislation should provide for no more than, let's say, three months for the election of a new head of agriculture, because the secretary might very much like it, as we know, there is nothing more permanent than temporary. And one very concise argument. The Secretary of the Council is a person who is elected first by a deputy, that is also a elected person, and then the members of the council choose it once again, i.e. by the number of deputies, i.e. by the status of election from the community, by the status of moral and, if any, by legal legitimacy. This is the second person in the territorial community, so we don't understand the veto, we're going to be over it next sessional week, I'm sure. And this is the mechanism we're proposing, and we're asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u42	Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u43	The Communist faction, please pass the word Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u44	Microphone, please, Ponomarenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u45	Boris Jakovic, tell us whether it is advisable to have one law on local self - government, where there is a question of service in local governments and the status of heads to have in one of these laws. That is, having some code of local self - government. Are we going to have dozens of separate laws by local self-government?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u46	Thank you. In principle, from the perspective of reality, I certainly agree with you. At the same time, the codex is made up of a number of fundamental parts, and we are actually going to do so by forming separate laws on principled and key issues. I'm not saying that this bill is not a small partial change, it's a fundamental bill that takes up dozens of pages of fine print. So this is already a fundamental document in view of the concept that you're proposing, so here is the logic of our actions and your suggestions exactly the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u47	Have a seat, please. It's from the committee, Boris Jakovic, as well as the author, and it's from the committee. Have a seat. Please let's take 15 minutes to talk. Puzakov, prepare Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u48	Vladimir Puzakov faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The creation of an effective system of local self - government depends on the rational organization of rural, rural, and urban work. Thus, it is now necessary to amend existing laws governing the functioning of local governments. It has to be noted that in the next year's adoption of changes in local self-government, which is part of political reform in Ukraine, the status of the heads of the respective territorial communities can be considered first. And secondly, in the fourth article of the second article, it is stated that the respective head is chosen for a term of four years, but this will not meet other standards for the election of all levels. The bill has given much attention to the work of the city’s head with the territorial community, the electorate, but little attention has been paid to the organization of its work, which should also be legislated if the law is to be adopted. To this day, the city’s head is assisted by a protective service in the form of assistants, counselors, and consultants. We know from practice that one assistant deals with parliamentary documents, another deals with appeals, complaints, citizens' complaints, but each one goes to the city head with the right questions, and that's all the time. At present, the city’s head lacks a legislative structure capable of ensuring its activity on a mobile basis, according to the demands of time. In practical activities of the head, this problem is particularly important and requires the creation of such a structure, such as a city - head device led by the head of the machine. We know that the City Council apparatus performs a slightly different function, and the patronage of the head today does not provide time. Every head needs a government manager. Therefore, these proposals and comments are proposed to be taken into account when the law is being finalized and adopted or amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Samantha, get ready for Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u50	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. According to article 141, part three, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the status of rural, rural, and urban heads is to be determined by law. And that's the law. The official authority of the village, village, and city heads is determined by the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule and by some other laws. At present, the status of rural, rural, and urban heads is defined by articles 12, 42, 79 and some other articles. For example, 50, 54, 59 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. In addition, part five of article 12 of the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine establishes that the powers and guarantees provided for by the Law on the Status of Council Deputies extend to rural, rural, urban, and urban heads. Thus, the position of the current Law on the Status of the Deputy Local Councils since June 7, 2001, in principle, also applies to rural, rural, and urban heads. In addition, appropriate guarantees for all municipal officials are established by the Service Law in the local authorities. Then there is reason to claim that the status of rural, rural, and urban heads is in principle settled, although some positions deserve no doubt clarification. In view of what has been defined, there is serious doubt as to the appropriateness of adopting a separate law that is proposed. Nor can we agree with the provisions of article 25 of the draft law, which essentially introduces the inviolability of rural, rural, and urban heads. It is well known that the Constitutional Court of December 23, 1993, declared unconstitutional the provisions of article 37 of the Court of Auditors Act, which provided for some officials of the Court of Auditors to be untouchable in the same way as parliamentary integrity. Since the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the inviolability of rural, rural, urban heads, it can be seen with great confidence that the position of article 25 of the draft if adopted can also be declared unconstitutional. In general, it seems that the prescribed draft law is ambitious and populistic. So I would be able to get the authors of this bill to agree with the conclusion of scientific and expert management and to reconsider the relevance of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u51	Please, Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u52	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". The question raised by the honourable national MPs certainly deserves attention, although for the first time, I stress, the bill has been structured in legislation that defines the status of rural, rural and urban heads, and it has been introduced under the Constitution, which establishes that the status of these officials should be established by law. True to what law? This is not written in the Constitution. So you could go two ways: either make changes to valid laws, or you could make another law, just like the authors of the draft. I wanted to talk about the pluses and the minuses and my attitude towards him. Having examined it, it is clear that 18 out of 25 articles are similar to the laws in force — the status of members of local councils and so forth. I propose to delete article 17 of the law, article 18, more faithfully, which completely repeats article 17 of the Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. That's not necessary, because there's no one else's status. But what is mentioned in article 25 is the characteristics of attracting rural, rural, urban head to criminal, administrative responsibility -- it is worth the attention, although perhaps order needs to be changed. That's not the advice. And you're going to have to decide more than that. That'd be better. It's not the village council that has to decide whether it's a village, but, let's say, it's a district level. Why? For days I had the village head of the village of Prilymansk Ovidiopolski district of the Odessa region of Baranec Vasil Vasilovic. He was detained while he was in the hospital and so on. And the cell comes to the head of the district government, the CPD. He's a former militiaman anyway. Invulnerability and the fact that these people are dealing with political issues in one way or another today, because they will represent political parties and blocs, tells us that the features need to be set up. So I vote in favour of the first reading, but we still have some serious work to do. And we need to talk about the benefits of the bill. This is a definition of the requirements of service ethics. Well, what's the ethics of, say, Ruslan Bodelan when he's signing a contract with his own son to appoint him director of the Odessa International Airport? No education, no commercial, literally, veins with a son. With relatives living in London. What kind of work ethic can I be? Therefore, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u53	Please, Mironenko, the Communist faction, prepare for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u54	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I actually voted in favour of that ruling because I believed you, the respected Vladimir Mihajlovich, to your arguments, that Ukraine is not Georgia, that there will not be a coup d'état in Ukraine prepared by the United States of America, tested in Yugoslavia, Georgia. But, uh, it's over, so I've reconsidered my position. Now it's about the bill. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots! In my view, the first-reading bill could be supported, but of course it must be carefully refined. Well, first of all, please take a look at the role of head. The head's right to make proposals on the structure of the Council appeared to be questionable, as such powers were not provided for the Council's MP, which created them. Well, of course, that's insane. That is to say, this must be eliminated because everyone knows that, in fact, the city’s head is also in charge of the council, the executive branch, and often abuse. And what kind of democracy is there? Second. It is also impossible to fully understand the provisions of article 25 of the draft, which, in fact, introduces the inviolability of rural, rural and urban chapters, without elaboration. Well, it's not just the Constitution that you can remember that doesn't mean it's just the integrity of the MPs. But I would even like to give an example. For example, in my hometown of Kerchi, in my district until 1999, representatives of organized criminal groups were actively involved in mayors and deputies. Unfortunately, I would say that no one was completely under control, but the MPs were completely in control of the gangs, resulting in the city and the economy being run by them. Thank God that the situation was resolved in 1999, although with great difficulty. I had to speak to the electorate myself, to offer the police chief a telephone of trust to use, to call people to report, to report on the bandits, because people were intimidated, intimidated. And that's why, of course, the bandits want to be inviolable to go to the MPs. That's why I'm asking you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u55	Please, Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u56	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I am convinced that this bill, which has been reported, is absolutely necessary, because, with all due respect to the Science and Experimental Authority, and all the things that are said there are many things that need to be worked out really. But there is a problem that only the law has to solve. The role of rural, rural, or urban heads in community life is vital. At the same time, in determining his status, it is necessary to foresee sufficient weights of influence on him by members of the community as well as by the representative authorities. The authorities, the electives, must depend on the electorate. Otherwise, things happen that can't really be acceptable to society. There are many examples where a city head, having the necessary number of deputies dependent on him in the council, is essentially transformed into a "particular prince" for which laws are not written. This can be observed especially at the level of cities and, for example, in the area cities. For example, in Poltava. There are other illogical situations. For example, in Poltava since March 2002, there was no city head because Anatoly Kukoba, elected by the national deputy, had assumed the authority of the city’s head. There would seem to be an election. No, there is no election, and the deputy mayor is responsible. This deputy mayor, in fact, does not solve very many questions that are serious. At the same time, he places his signature on financial documents and seems to make some decisions. But does he have the right to make these decisions? I think there's a question here because no one gave him such a right, more loyal voters gave him no authority. He was not delegated the right and could not delegate the former city’s head. And so I repeat, the law is necessary again, but in this law, you have to write out, and here are the problems and colossalities that I've just mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u57	Thank you. Yes, please, the discussion is over. Boris Yakovic is a moment's imprisonment before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor, for the very friendly and calm tone of discussion and constructive. In fact, two questions need to be answered without being touched. There's no immunity project. There is a special order of attraction to criminal responsibility. It was correct to note that people may be intimidated. Unless it is true that many rural, rural, urban heads are now intimidated, they are also intimidated. It's also right how they can protect people. So there has to be a balance. The crowds have the ability to control them and call them off, but the conspiracies above them should not be committed. And the second. One Law or the Disruption of Standards? There were three laws: "self-governance," "On the status of members of local councils," "On the service of self-governance bodies," where heads were involved. And I can name more than 200 acts. All right, the Mayor of Millionaire City has his own patronage and legal service. How can you work in rural and rural areas? Of course, he's much better, much more comfortable having an act, standards that are even duplicated, but he'll be protected. And by the way, in our committee there are representatives of all factions there, the whole parliamentary spectrum, no voices against the concept. I don't think there's a voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u59	Please, Shuma, microphone, with motive. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u60	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, there are systemic shortcomings in the bill, namely the absence of a clear internal structure. In our opinion, the proposed bill does not take into account the provisions of valid Ukrainian laws in the field of local self-government and, above all, the laws of Ukraine on local self-government in Ukraine. This applies to part five of article 12. They just talked about criminal responsibility. The 25th article of this bill is actually the inviolability of the heads of rural, rural and urban heads. Hence, to this day such a law can be viewed as purely imperfect. So we think that this bill needs to be returned for a meaningful revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on the status of rural, rural and urban heads. Registration number 5743. Please vote. [[11:38:28]] For 218. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 71. "Regions of Ukraine" is 6. The Communists are 51. Social Democrats is 0. The people's agrarian party is 14. "The only Ukraine" is 15. Socialists - 20. Block Timoshenko - 6. "Urrigible Ukraine" is an NDP 5. "Soyuz" is 5. "Democratic Initiatives" is 6. Center - 5 Postfaction - 14. For Teryohin, I remind you of the rules of the Constitution: each person. Have you been mobilising, please? I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on the Status of Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. 5743. Please vote. [[11:39:49]] For 247 For -247. Thank you, copy. Dear colleagues! Do not relax and pay attention. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the causes of the unsatisfactory state of the public procurement system and to verify the possible abuse of the office of officials, others involved. Let me introduce you to the board. The following national deputies are proposed to the interim commission: The commission’s chairman is Osika S.H. It's the only Ukrainian faction. From Our Ukraine - Carmazin U.A., Bondarenko S.D., Teryohin S.A. From "Urrigible Ukraine" and "NDP" is Dry J.M. "Democratic Initiatives" by Rajkov B.S. From the "Regions of Ukraine" - Samofalov N.H., Colonyary O.P. From the National Agrarian Party, Kosinov S.A. BY AWAKE! W. From the Socialists, Tushko V.P. From Social Democrats, Shurma I.M. From "The Union" - M.O. From the company Solomatin U.P., Rodionov M.K. From the non-fractional ones, Lukashuk O.H. and Kirill’s W.D. From the Centre, Gabrieluk V.V. This is the composition of a commission that is properly composed of the Rules, which is proportionally taken into account by all, including non-fractional ones. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the whole of this Order 6431 with the composition that I've announced. Please vote. [[11:41:59]] For 251 We need 150 votes, decision taken. It's already the commission's composition. We've already included the question. The question is answered. Let's move on to the section "Abbreviated procedure." Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to comply with the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. Registration No. 6017. Reported to the First Deputy Justice Minister, Rabbit Anatoly Pavlovich. Please, three minutes and get ready for Onionex.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill provides for the introduction of existing legislation in accordance with the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. In particular, chapter two, "Instructive conduct", chapter one, "Invoice conduct", chapter four and chapter seven, "Involvement of conduct", and chapter eight, on the recognition and enforcement of decisions by foreign courts in Ukraine. The first chapter contains changes to notaryate laws, international commercial arbitration, and executive conduct. In particular, the changes to Ukraine's Notaryate Act are aimed at resolving issues of use by state notaries of measures to protect hereditary property on the basis of a decision by the court to declare a deceased person in accordance with article 249 of the new Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on International Commercial Arbitration propose that the issue of jurisdiction be settled for local courts of law related to the activities of international commercial arbitration. The second section of the project is proposed to be recognised as having become invalid, the Ukrainian Law on Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions of Foreign Courts in Ukraine, given that the Civil Procedure Code regulates the recognition and enforcement of decisions of foreign courts in Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will eliminate disagreements and differences in the existing laws of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u63	Thank you. Please sit down, Anatoly Pavlovich. From the committee of Mikola Caterenchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u64	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting considered the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, No. 6017. The aim of the project is to bring the provisions of existing legislation into line with the Civil Code of Ukraine. in the year. The project proposes to amend the legislation on notariat, international commercial arbitration, and enforcement. With regard to changes to the Law on Executive Implementation. The new Civil Procedure Code is provided by chapter two of the new procedural institute, which is the order of introduction. This, in turn, is due to the need to amend the Law on Enforcement. And if the proposed changes are accepted, the documents to be executed by the State Enforcement Service will be subject to judicial orders. In addition, according to the current CCP, the treaty of peace of the parties is approved by the court. And the CDC of 18.03. 2004 provides for a decree on the acceptance of the peace treaty. In this context, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to articles 11 marked "1" and 37 of the draft law on implementing implementation. Regarding changes to the International Commercial Arbitration Act. In line with chapter eight of the new CDC on the determination and enforcement of decisions by foreign courts in Ukraine, the Law on International Commercial Arbitration is required. Yes, the issue of granting permission for the enforcement of a foreign court’s decisions on the charge of the retractor is dealt with by the court at the place of residence or the place where the debtor is located, and in the cases provided for in part two of the article mentioned by the court at the place where the debtor’s property is located in Ukraine. So in any case, cases are brought before local courts, not appeals courts. According to the Ukrainian Law on International Commercial Arbitration, this category of cases is the subject of the Courts of Appeal. This disagreement is suggested by the project to be removed. Regarding changes to the Notaryate Law. According to the new CDC, individual implementation will not only deal with the restoration of rights to lost securities on an exhibitor but also with the restoration of rights to lost promissory notes. The introduction of such provisions to the new CDC is due to changes to article 92 of the Notary Law. Moreover, the judgment of a court declared by a natural person after he has gained legal power is sent to the notary at the site of the discovery of an inheritance for use in the protection of hereditary property provided for by the law in force. Regrettably, this is not found in the Notaryate Law, and it is suggested that the corresponding changes be made in article 60. The changes proposed by the project take effect simultaneously with the Civil Procedure Code. There is no comment on the Supreme Court project. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office supports this project in the first reading and the Supreme Council Committee recommends that the project be adopted on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u65	Thank you, Mikolo Dmitrovitch, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? Well, yeah. What's more, there are new people here. Please, Solomonine, follow him Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u66	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, when we consider the bills with exactly the kind of problem that we are offered today, I always ask myself: will these innovations, the changes that are being proposed, the "little Ukrainian" that each of us, regardless of our belongings, partying, caring and hurting? And I would like to point out that with the official manual of the State Tax Administration with an annual income of up to 5,000 dollars, we have 19 million taxpayers, or 82 percent of the total of 23 million taxpayers. And I ask myself, will the questions that are proposed in this bill be addressed: the orderly execution, the peace agreement, where international commercial arbitration will take place, how will they be carried out, where the location of what or who foreign courts decide? And I want to answer myself, and hopefully you'll agree with me that the "little Ukrainian" we're in pain about, these laws and these innovations don't touch. I'm sorry. So I'd like to ask you, Adam Ivanovich, you're responsible for having our agenda focused on the most painful issues being addressed and resolved. Such questions may need not to be considered before the New Year’s Eve but to adopt a law that would protect the afflicted people. And for the record. Despite all the criticism I've been making. I just want to say one thing: if we're on this path of capitalist restoration, we need the relationship between capitalist owners of property, property, money, they're properly regulated by law. However, with this in mind, the prescribed bill also deserves attention so that it can be supported in the first reading. But once again, unfortunately, the little Ukrainian won't touch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u67	Mironenko. Get ready for Carmazine. Marcus? Please, it's Marcus' microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u68	Marcus, the Communist faction. I believe that the bill should be supported. It will provide an opportunity to remove the gaps that are now there, as well as to bring existing legislation into line with the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. I believe that this bill should be adopted as a basis. In addition, article 50 of the Notaryate Act should take into account that according to the new Civil Procedure Code claims for notarial actions or refusals to do notarial actions will be dealt with by the courts. These changes should also be made to Ukraine’s new draft Notariat Act. In addition, the draft amendments to article 390 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure should be supplemented by the amendments to article 390 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that both civil, labour and family rights judgments and foreign courts in criminal cases are executed in the area where the confiscation of property and damages to victims are envisaged, as well as in the case of arbitral tribunals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u69	Please, Karmazin. After him, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u70	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! First, I'll start with the name of this law. On page 2, paragraph II suggests that the law on the recognition and enforcement of foreign courts in Ukraine be declared invalid. If that is the case, and this is really the case, then you have to change the name of the law first and call it "to make changes and to recognize that some laws of Ukraine have been lost." That's the first one. The other one. Dear National Deputies! The Scientific and Experimental Authority, having examined this bill, believes that the provisions of the Notaryate Act should be supplemented by the implementation of a notary commitment by an adopter of an alien to provide representatives of a diplomatic institution abroad with information about an adopted child and the possibility of communicating with a child, as provided for in article 252 of the Civil Procedure Code. Please recall that we have had such complaints on numerous occasions. We are now looking at Simferopol, where we are completely unconscious about adoption. We now consider such complaints in a number of cities, especially in the Kyiv region where parents live. As a result, children were taken from their living parents, and today it is not even possible to communicate with them. So this change needs to be made. Article 50 of the Notaryate Act also states that in connection with the adoption of the new Civil Procedure Code, and this is also section 9, paragraph 8, of the Final and Transitional Positions of the Complaints, notary statements or refusals to do so are considered under the rules of the late implementation. It's very important, and it's going to give something that's being asked here -- something for a small Ukrainian. So that's security, that's real human rights enforcement -- that's exactly what it is. It is also proposed to complete the draft with amendments to article 42 of the Civil Code in part 1 of which the word “call” should be replaced by the word “appeal”, since 241 of the CDC is now slightly different from that of the guardian, guardian or caregiver. But if I generalize, I'll tell you that the adoption of this bill will lead to the elimination of the differences and contradictions that have arisen between those laws that I called and the code after its adoption, which will allow them to reconcile their norms with each other and contribute to a better application of them in practice, which means that once again, for the Ukrainian who is so roasted, I think will be done absolutely enough. That's why I'm in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u71	Thank you. We've come up with fresh forces. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! For me, this talk is of fundamental importance. I've been trying for six months to sign up for the show just out of curiosity. Today I was able to do so. I want to say to our radio audience and the long - suffering Ukrainian people. It may seem that of the 450 Ukrainian national deputies here, only ten understand what this is all about, and it turns out to be extremely broad specialists from herbicides to some other aspect, to dioxins, yes. I mean, I'm sorry, but I think we need to change our regulations to allow specific factions to define draft laws, because there is a really, really negative impression about the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the introduction by the government of this and other bills aimed at improving the legislative framework for the development of society on the innovative path shows, among other things, that there has been no and no political crisis in Ukraine, because the political crisis is known to be to halt or halt the functioning of individual structural elements of the political system, foresees, as a sign, the impossibility of effective functioning of the political system, the acute, difficult political state of society. There is nothing like that in Ukraine and it has been created, we know by what political forces, and who is paid for by the situation of mass unrest and political show, the oppression of hysteria, the zombieism of young people is similar. And I want to stress that the goal is not noble at all, because it is not a general goal, the goal is not unifying, but the goal is to ensure the victory of one of the candidates for the presidency of Ukraine. There's one good thing about what we've seen and seen. In the once clean, clean areas, streets, and parks of Kiev, we see real manifestations of clocracy with you. Dominating the political life that our Ukraine has stockpiled, the society of the influence of the crowd, the mob. We see the introduction of one way of political power that greatly facilitates the legitimacy of the establishment of a future authoritarian regime. Bill 6017 needs to be adopted, it removes the discrepancies and contradictions that arise between the Notariat laws, the implementing implementation and the Civil Procedure Code. The law passed by the government will further improve the functioning of Ukraine’s political system and the second reading will certainly have to be governed by the rules of the law on recognition and enforcement in Ukraine. Judges with the Codex. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Well, let's probably do it if you don't mind, we'll do it without a break. Because we have the last working week and the last working day of the plenary before the New Year, and we have a lot of debt, I think we can give 30 minutes of consideration to the bill. The bill is closed, please mobilize forces and efforts. We're going to vote on the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on bringing in compliance with the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. Bill 6017 registration number, please vote. [[11:59:45]] For 204 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 59. "Ukraine" - 8. The Communists are 54. Social Democrats - 13. The people's agrarian party is 15. "The only Ukraine" is 5. Socialists - 9. Block Timoshenko - 13. "Urrigible Ukraine" NDP 15. The Union, the Deminitatives and the Center are 0. Post-frosure is 13. Yeah, did you have a break? Shall we vote? We're focused, we're voting on Bill No. 6017. [[12:00:43]] For 232 Thank you, the law has been passed. Dear colleagues, I'm in charge. I meant, "focused," and you understood "distracted." There is a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Registration number 5722. Reported the first Deputy Minister of Justice of the Rabbit, Anatoly Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to carry out legislative acts in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils, and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, which take effect on 1 October 2005. In addition to clarifying some of the concepts of Ukrainian laws on the status of deputies of local councils, on the state-law experiment on the development of local self-government in the city of Irpin, in the villages of Butch, Warzel, Hostomel, Kotsubinsk Kyiv region, the Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev, on the service of local self-government. The project also proposes the introduction of some novels. In particular, one and the most important of these is foresight and modification of the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, which relate to the legal status of the candidates for appointment and the recalling of members of local councils. According to part two of article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village, city heads, the right to nominate candidates is exercised by the electorate through local organizations, parties, blocks or by self-determination in accordance with the order defined by this law. The rights of electorate congregations, working groups, public organizations, and citizens’ associations as a whole to nominate candidates for local councils are not established by the law. In connection with this project, it provides for the exclusion of the listed subjects from the list of Ukraine's "On the Status of Deputies of Local Councils" for the appointment of candidates to the deputy. Considering that the designated entities are not entitled to nominate candidates for local councils, they are unable to call off elected deputies. Instead, the draft law provides for the inclusion of candidates in the panel and the withdrawal of members of the local councils of constituencies, organizations, and political parties. Thus, in our view, the introduction of these changes will allow us to harmonize existing legislation with the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads, which I have already said will take effect from October 1st 2005. And there is a need to prepare properly for its implementation. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I think everyone understands. Yeah? You passed the law. Other rules must be followed in accordance with this law. Even Carmazin agrees that a vote should be taken. From Committee Boris Jakovic, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u76	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." My position here is closer to the headship position. Because 90 percent of the law is technical except for one really standard that relates to initiating the resignation of deputies. I think that this rule needs to be reconciled not only with the Law on Elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and with the local councils, but also with the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, where this is sufficiently regulated, and there should also be no conflict. Because these formulas do not coincide fully, there is no need to adopt the Law as a whole. But the committee supports its adoption as a basis, because it really meets its purpose -- the harmonization of laws among itself. And literally a few words about who has the right to dismiss members of the local council. Dear friends, only voters have the right to withdraw them. And that's both in this and in the previous laws. But the problem is, who can initiate it? And, in fact, there is no denying that only those are allowed to initiate appeals. those who made these people candidates, and whose hopes they failed. So this is supposed to be the party centers and these are the ones. which have caused, not party centers of competing parties, which can just be interpreted from this Law. That's why we need to narrow it down. Now regarding the election congregations. If the constituency of the electorate were to have a permanent character, and the same electors who nominated the person would have initiated his appeal, it would have made sense. But they put one out, and then the voters come to pick, and they start calling off completely different people. I can refer to Kyiv’s sad example, where Korchinsky’s sadhearted brotherhood initiated such a campaign a year ago — a barrel or money or a mandate. And it blackmailed many Kiyevrada deputies by allowing them to initiate their withdrawal without justification. So this rule is of principle. As I have already stressed today in the presentation of the Law on the Status of Rural, Rural and Urban Heads, and a great, by the way, colleague of gratitude for your support for this law can protect the self-protected. And protecting members of the local councils from unwarranted repulsion is a normal norm. On the other hand, voters should have such a tool. And it's in this law. In view of all these circumstances, the committee unanimously recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading with further mandatory work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u77	Yeah, well, what are we gonna talk about? What if it's two minutes? Please, Puzakov, prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u78	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I fully support the changes that have been made with regard to individual law provisions relating to the legal status of the candidates and the recalling of local council members. But we need to work perfectly on the bill, taking into account all the comments and imperfections. Because imperfection and hasty adoption of the law, for example, on the election of the President of Ukraine, gave his, in paws, as you know, "the result." The changes made to the Presidential Elections Act will not produce the desired results, and that is what we see, and will exacerbate the social and economic crisis in the country and provoke the anger and indignation of millions of voters who have been deprived of voting rights by abolishing voting at home. I was approached by the head of the polling station, number 79, in the hundredth district, with a complaint that over a hundred people were deprived of their voting rights at her precinct. They are not people with disabilities, they are people of old age who will not be able to appear alone in the polling stations and be unable to vote at home. It's just a crime committed against people. How many of these people are in every district? And let's say, ladies, from the faction of "Our Ukraine," it doesn't seem that in voting on the house, you know exactly where and how to do it, because you've had a great experience since 1999, when you've done everything you can not to defeat your Kuchma, really, the international candidate for truth and justice, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. And we, the Communists, warned the people of Ukraine that the 2004 presidential elections would be extremely dirty and cynical, that they would turn into a fierce struggle in which voters would be involved. That's what happened. We see that there is an escalation of opposition that can have a tragic end. The choice of the nation is made by force. But the final word should be for the people. It's not about supporting a candidate, it's about whether Ukraine will be an American refuge or not. And she's being prepared for this, as we can see, by the hamsters. Or what is this self - called National Rescue Committee that has announced the takeover of power? But let's see who's on that committee and who's joining them. That's terrible! Can we let that happen? Where, then, was the democracy for which so much throat was snarled in 1991 by the same motion queens, who were deceiving the people of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u79	Solomonine. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. One of my blue-and-white colleagues with the o-tags just complained about the whole of Ukraine that someone somehow seized the right to speak out of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for discussing drafts. You know, honourable colleagues, and I'm saying this now for our distinguished voters, that this is outright slander, this is a lie. Respectful fellow workers who get up early thus receive God’s approval. Anyone who wants to come out of this rostrum has to come here at seven o'clock in the morning. And our colleague from the opposite camp, the orange one, he's running the case here, and how to handle it, and you're definitely going to get the first, or the second, or the third right to speak. You don't have to sleep on someone's side, either a wife or a mistress, but you have to work on the Supreme Council. And next, from the bill. It is proposed that a member of the local council be recalled by the congregation, conferences of local political parties and blocs, which, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads, have the right to nominate candidates and are in the territory of the respective constituency. The point is that the prescribed law takes effect as of October 1, 2005, and we have to prepare for the upcoming elections that will follow a proportional system, in line with the political reform in 2006. The law in general is right, proper, and is in keeping with the realities of our lives. At the same time, I would like to draw our attention to the fact that the draft law proposes to replace the term "working groups" with another "compulsion of enterprises, institutions, organizations, whatever form of ownership," and we know how this property is not just the authority that everyone who isn't in it is currently trending out of everyone. Or the Ukrainian political shadow. But every owner is forcing his employees to do any congregation and sign any documents and emphasize anything. So without the return, really, of national authority, without the restoration of the rights of the labour groups, we can't do any of that. So I would like to share our wish that in 2006, when elections for a proportional system are launched, the Soviet authorities will be reinstated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u81	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u82	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I will definitely not support this bill as a violation of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens of our constituents. He deprives them of the rights that they have today and that they already enjoy, has shown them through Kozin, run electoral assemblies, and thus control the activities of their chosen representative or representative. Disenfranchisement from the electorate is an anticonstitutional action, or anticonstitutional one. in violation of article 22 of the Constitution. I don't know why we don't involve the Human Rights Committee on the subject. There's a question and it's very serious. There is also the question that the elections to local councils can be held, and unparty self-reliants can be because, in addition to a proportional system for individual cases, as provided for in the law, the majority system of majority in one-mandom constituencies. And we want to deprive these citizens of their rights. I'll tell you what that led to. In Crimea, for example, there is authority for the purpose of hiding and legalizing illegal solutions for economic gain. For example, for the one - night distribution of 500 acres [500 ha] of agricultural land for long - term rental and sale of land of especially valuable protected lands in a two - mile [2 km] coastline, as was the case with the Eugenia Rock Reserve in Kastropol. For example, in a particularly large area, the removal of land on the coast may be the village of Semizre, where there are only eleven people, with 500 acres [500 ha] of land of various destinations and coasts along six miles [6 km] of coastline. So there's no control over this digging. I receive a decision, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea gives 10 hundred lands near Simeis: Azarov Aleksei Nikolayevich, Azarov Nikolay Janović, Azarova Ludmila Nikolayevna. Ladies and gentlemen, let's just get it together. If we still take the right to control the people of whom we choose, we commit a crime against this nation. We just share power, and the usurpation of power, including parties, is forbidden. I never support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u83	Question completed. Maybe Yuri Anatolyovich, we're voting first, and secondly, you're going to make all your adjustments and valuable suggestions. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Bill number 5722 on first reading, please vote. [[12:18:01]] For-161 Can we do it again first? Yuri Anatolyevich, be kinder. We will remove them, the articles that break when preparing for the second. I am voting for the bill to be re-readed. Please vote. [[12:18:46]] For 202 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 18. "Ukrainian Regions" is 25. The Communists are 57. Social Democrats are 18. The people's agrarian party is 18. "The only Ukraine" is 10. Socialists - 20. Block Timoshenko - 8. Working Ukraine NDP - 8. "Soyuz" is 5. Deminicatives are 0. Postfaction is 8. Yuri Anatolyevich, help a little. Let's re-read it. Dear friends, dear colleagues! The thing is, it's not just a law that's for the sake of the law, but the point is that this law is 90 percent technical, it wants to bring those laws into line, according to what we've adopted with you. So let's be logical, please for the first time again, please vote. [[12:20:09]] For 219 Yeah, rejected, but nothing. The point is that this session is almost over, at the beginning of the next one we have the full right to go back to its consideration. Oh, no. There is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine in relation to the Adoption of the Law on Telecommunications. Registration number 5567. First Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Lundishev Viktor Mikolayovich, will report. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on Telecommunications, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 18 November 2003 to implement the final provisions of the Law on Telecommunications of the Ukraine, No. 1280-4. The bill provides for amendments to Ukrainian laws on electronic documents and electronic documents, on payment systems and remittances in Ukraine, on the export, import and return of cultural values, on the radio frequency of Ukraine, on concessions, on the national air conditioning system in part of the clarification, on the list of legal acts that form the legal basis of activities in areas that are subject to the regulation of these laws. The development of the project also takes into account the need to conduct terminology of some Ukrainian laws in accordance with the Ukrainian Telecommunications Act. The adoption of the bill is aimed at eliminating conflicts between individual legislative acts of Ukraine and ensuring that a coherent field of legislation is formed in the field of telecommunications. In view of the above, the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine asks for support and acceptance of the draft Ukrainian law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u85	Thank you, sit down, please. Jura Lucenko from the profile committee, please, the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, this bill has been tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the Telecommunications Act that we have adopted. And in a simple language, it just changes the definitions that were in previous laws that regulate this sector. So, for example, instead of a communications system, you enter the word "telecom networks" and so on. This is a purely technical law that amends laws. The committee asks to accept it as a basis, for it has a minor error. The Cabinet of Ministers, apparently busy with election races, did not follow the fact that the Radio Frequency Resource Act is no longer available, is its new edition. Still making adjustments to the old version. So please accept as a basis. Then the committee will work it carefully, and we'll take it to the next session as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u87	It's a friendly vote, isn't it? Dear colleagues, once again, the technical bill, the more we accept it, not as a whole, but as a basis. I'll put it to a vote. For reasons, please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u88	Yuri Karmazin, Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I'd like it to go into protocol, except for what Lucenko said. I support this bill, acceptance. However, in article five, it is necessary to exclude from article five the national system for the exclusion of confidential communications that excludes the scope of the law, the first part of which specifies what relations are governed by this legislative act. However, if excluded, this article will leave a second part that determines on which relationship the Act on the National System of this Relationship does not extend. So the Science-Expert Authority is proposing from a design point of view that we replace the title of the article with the name of the article five, "The Scope of Action of the Law," or in a new edition, to indicate which social relations are regulated by the law. This is very important, Adam Ivanovich. That's why it has to go into protocol. And I would ask Lucenka, the committee, to take this into account when you do the editing. Because it's supposed to be in the protocol right now. In general, I support this law. And I hope that it will contribute to the further democratization of our society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u89	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The committee agrees. They'll take this into account in the drafting of the bill. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on Telecommunications, registration number 5567. Please vote. [[12:25:15.]] For 249 We can if we want. The law is passed. The issue is being addressed -- the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to deal with manufacturing violations and the circulation of excise goods. Two bills: registration numbers - 5562, 5562-1. He will report to Manin Mikhailo Fedorovich, First Deputy Minister of Interior. [[It's government.]] Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u90	Honourable Heads of State, Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law has been designed to meet the requirements of the Ukrainian President's Decree of February 9, 2004 175-2004 "On the system of measures that have been removed, the causes and conditions that contribute to crime and corruption" and on the alleged distribution of cases of production and implementation of counterfeit liquor and fever production in Ukraine. The main purpose of this bill is to detince the market for alcohol and other excise goods in order to increase budget revenues, as well as to reduce the risk of life and health of citizens by ensuring the safety of alcoholic beverages. The project proposes to amend article 204, 216, 227 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine by increasing the responsibility for the illicit manufacture, storage, sale or transport of excise goods, the illicit manufacture, counterfeiting, use or sale of illegally manufactured, obtained or forged excise stamps or stamps, the release or implementation of inadequacies, [[Article 204]] [[Article 216]] [[Article 227]] Because experts now believe that this article does not provide sufficient punishment for the commission of these crimes. At the same time, despite measures taken by the government, the law enforcement agencies of decriminalizing the area continue to have a place of consumption, and the production and implementation of the surrogate often poses a threat to the life and health of citizens. It should also be noted that he is in full agreement with the draft Ukrainian law submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Kosinov. These bills pursue the same goal, but the government's draft, set out in Article 204, contains proposals to increase fines under Article 216 unlawfully applicable to excise stamps or stamps and Article 227 - the release and implementation of inadequacy products. The draft law is worked out and agreed on without notice. Minegropolitics, Mineconomy, Minfin and the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, as well as a legal basis in Minist, the conclusion of this issue is positive. Its implementation does not require additional spending from the State budget of Ukraine and will enable law enforcement authorities to fight against violations of legislation more effectively. So please support the government bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u91	Thank you, Mikhailo Fedorovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, is there no objection to increasing our responsibility? Yes, please, Carmazin from the scene, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u92	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I wouldn't be honest if I hadn't told you that they didn't report right now why and why it's very dangerous to break procedure, Adam Ivanovich. The scientific and expert office concludes that the first reading of the drafts would be to be sent for re-reading. Why? That's because it takes a long time to tell how many violations you see here. There's no scientific basis yet, why and how it's justified, once. Secondly, we have examples of competition between sections 2 and 3 of article 104. Competitive to article 227 of the Criminal Code. This will make it difficult to qualify these crimes. And also poisoning people, there's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u93	Yuri Anatolyevich, we understand. That's good enough for you. And really, it matches the conclusions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. We'll take that into account. Yes, please, from the Marcus Committee, a minute. Dry, it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u94	Marcus, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, both bills, 5562 and 5562-1, discussed by the committee together. Since the Cabinet of Ministers' draft Ukrainian Law amending the Criminal Code on Offences in Production and around Taxation and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the Strengthening of Liability for Illegal Manufacture, Storage, Sale or Transportation for the Purpose of Sale of Taxation Goods, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, are similar to one another. The bill aims to significantly increase criminal responsibility for illegal acts involving taxable goods by amending articles 204, 216 and 227 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. While supporting the basic idea of both bills and considering that the bills in question have a common object of settlement, the Committee considers it appropriate to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending the Criminal Code on the strengthening of responsibility for the illicit manufacture, storage and marketing of or transportation for the purpose of disposal of subcontracting goods under registration number 5262-1, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kosinov, such as that which is more perfect and which takes into account the positions of the alternative government bill. The position of the committee on the concept of the bill does not coincide with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. However, it would be appropriate to adopt the prescribed bill of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kosinova, as it is more legislatively worked and more compliant with the requirements of standard-setting practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, a minute is dry, and we'll be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u96	I'm through! Dear National Deputies! Society will welcome any legislative attempt to initiate the government and our initiatives to punish more severely for committing crimes. In this case, the special relevance of the bill is that it enhances the fight against such disgusting and reproducing pseudo-marketing transformations as human poisoning. serious crimes. That is why I propose to adopt a government bill, a parliamentary bill to be taken into account in the work, and the main effort of the deputy corps, the highest legislative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to aim at improving the mechanism for implementing the requirements of the law, including the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is my last performance in 2004. I'm glad I finally broke into the rostrum. I congratulate everyone on the fact that the heavy, long-suffering high school year is coming to an end. I hope that in 2005 we will set up a normal system of recording Ukrainian national MPs for the performance. Yay!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u97	Yes, Chernobyl insists. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u98	Dear Chairman! Dear People's Deputies, everyone who listens! With the coming New Year! And in my last speech, I forgot to say that I have to call my older parents before New Year's. This will be a great joy for them. I am categorically opposed to any laws that increase criminal responsibility for anything because today the criminal responsibility must be imposed only against those who rule the ruling criminal regime, because today only those who fight and fight with someone who does not know who does not know who does what they are, because it is known that there are no restraining measures if the heads of the agencies themselves do not assist in criminal activities. I believe that Ukraine needs the laws that it introduces.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u99	Leonid Mikhailovich, you said right, that's the kind of law you need. Now we're going to figure it out. Please, with the motivations of the Council, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law proposes to amend article 204 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and to increase criminal responsibility for the illicit manufacture, storage, sale, or transport for the purpose of the sale of excise goods. But, honourable deputies, these changes that are being proposed are a step towards Ukraine's integration into the global and European community. And so I ask you to support these changes to the bill that were tabled by People's Deputy Kosinov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's be clear. In the process of coming up with proposals and thoughts from the profile committee, the science and expertise department, and the well-deserved lawyer Karmazin. I am voting on the basis of the first reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on manufacturing violations and the circulation of excise goods. [[Registration number 5562, government]] Please vote. [[12:36:48]] For 148 The draft Kosinov law is put to the vote for registration number 5562-1. [[12:37:17]] For-67 There were suggestions for rereading these two bills. Please vote. [[12:37:45]] For 229 Decision taken. The bill is directed at re-reading the first reading. We are considering a draft law amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on ownership in the field of land relations]] Registration number 5600. First Deputy Interior Minister Mikhailo Fedorovich Manin. Please inform briefly and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u102	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. A proposed project developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the State Committee on Land Resources to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to improve criminal legislation on liability for land-related offences. The need to develop this project has been due to the recent increase in the incidence of organized, self - propelled land activities with further voluntary construction, including housing and construction, auto - filling stations, parking lots, and so forth. Earlier, both administrative and criminal responsibilities are foreseen for such actions. Thus, article 199 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code of 1960, which became effective on 1 September 2001 for the arbitrary occupation of the land area, provided that, in the course of the year following the administration of the previous land takeover, correctional work was provided for up to six months or up to one year, or a fine of 15 to 25 minimum wages. The organization of group activities aimed at the arbitrary occupation of land or the arbitrary construction of buildings or buildings, as well as the direct participation in these group activities, was punishable by a three - year suspension of the valid Criminal Code of 2001 and the responsibility for these activities was not foreseen. For the time being, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offence provides for responsibility for the arbitrary occupation of the land, article 53 of the Prem. Such actions entail imposing a fine on citizens from 1 to 10 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens and officials from 8 to 15 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens, which is clearly insufficient punishment and cannot be a warning to wrongdoers. In particular, I note that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a bill drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, registration number 4503, which proposes to strengthen responsibility for the arbitrary occupation of the land, article 53 Prime. Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences. Suggested for your consideration is a bill by Ukraine to amend criminal liability and a procedural code on the subject. In the area of land relations, it is proposed that criminal responsibility be established only for the organization of group activities. At the same time, its adoption will allow a more effective fight against violations of Ukrainian land law, improve criminal responsibility for violations. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u103	Thank you, Mikhail Fedorovich, sit down, please. The thought of the profile committee, Markusz, should be explained within a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u104	The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, reviewed a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukrainian Law on Change in Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to establish criminal responsibility for the organization of group activities aimed at the arbitrary occupation of the land area, or the arbitrary construction of the land. To this end, it is proposed that the Criminal Code be supplemented by Article 341 of the Prime Law. 1 and make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The bill is already the fourth of a similar question. In particular, the National Deputies of Ukraine, Tereshkok, the People's Deputy of Mirimsky, introduced similar bills and these bills were rejected on November 18, 2004. One of them, Tereshukka, was designed for further work. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill and accept it as a basis. However, the bill proposes criminalizing in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u105	Finish, let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u106	criminalization of group actions aimed at the arbitrary occupation of the land. But according to article 14 of the Criminal Code, it is not possible to consider arbitrary activity and construction, since this is in line with articles 53-1 and 97 of the Code on Administrative Offences is an administrative offense. Thus, legal nonsensus preparation for administrative misconduct will be recognized as a crime. The project, so - called, all - out crime, is considered to have been completed for the purpose of organizing group action. Besides, it's about confiscating. The project also contains technical and legal shortcomings. Article 59 establishes confiscation only for serious and particularly serious crimes, and a crime to be predicted by 341 Primes. 1 is a crime of average gravity. Furthermore, according to the Civil and Earth Code, illegally constructed buildings and buildings do not become property of the person who built them and therefore cannot be confiscated. And there are a number of other inadequacies in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u107	Shall we be clear? Then let's give it a minute. Solomonine. Masenko's behind him. Solomatin microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u108	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! It's a whole poem to complement the Criminal Code with a new article: "Organization of group actions aimed at self-employment of the land or construction of the will." Here we are even offered various commissions, over and over again from either Feofania, or Concha-Saspé, or from Vyshgradska Street, etc. This includes a three - year restriction on free will or for the same actions, if they have done much damage, a restriction on freedom to a term of up to five years, or the deprivation of liberty for the same term with the confiscation of illegally constructed buildings. [[You have to specify what the damage is.]] Of course, such a bill must be adopted. It will improve that criminogenic situation, prevent its continued existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u109	Please, Masenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u110	Thank you. Indeed, the introduction of such a law can to some extent improve the solution to problems that exist in land relations. We often observe both excitement and collective and individual. But the point of the speech is that usually this law will turn against the poor, against the poor. Those who are in authority, who have a position, will never be, will not be subject to this law. And someone there has nothing to feed on in 30 hundred jobs of bitterness or something, they'll be held accountable. I won't be honest here, too, if I don't say other MPs were called, and here are names like Ivy, Blackwolf, Vaschuk, that are not called, which collective actions take over the land in Desert Water. And no law can be applied to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u111	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u112	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Adam Ivanovich, Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I would like to say, first of all, this bill is absolutely legally illiterate. That's what I'm saying as head of the Criminal Code team. He's just illiterate. Why? Because, and that's why the Legal Department, the Scientific and Scientific Administration wrote: it's appropriate to reject. And it says this is the fourth project. I'll tell you why he's legally completely illiterate. It is proposed that the organization of group activities be criminalized and involved in such activities aimed at the arbitrary occupation of land or the arbitrary construction of buildings or buildings. But the 14th Criminal Code says that the search for accomplices or conspiracy to commit is preparation for crime. In this case, it is preparation for the arbitrary occupation of the land. That is what article 53 provides. 1, 97 of the Code of Administrative Offences, or Administrative Offences. Therefore, preparing for administrative misconduct is a criminal offence. That's the first one. The other one. Dear people's deputies, we have conditions when we refer to the poor's 30th category.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u113	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u114	In conditions where 30 percent of the population is poor, that's 14 million. A man. To beggars 14.2. It is a crime to establish the criminal responsibility of citizens even to take up land on their own in a few hundred years, from which whole families are fed. And finally, I would like to say, Mr. Secretary-General of the Ministry, 154 ha with one stroke of pen signed by your Prime Minister Janukovich. What have you done with this fact? Have they responded to any of the requests? What did you do after the fact that in a dam on the way to the end of the night, you've built huge mansions where you can't do that? What did you do when the forests were captured? And there is a law today, article 365 establishes criminal responsibility for self - government and is to be drawn to it. There are also other articles. There is no need to supplement article 341-1. You just have to meet the requirements of the law. Just do it, nothing else. And what is, and, unfortunately, is, the IMF's efforts at another focus, including Mr. Manin, you're focusing on 180 deputies who have other political views. But I warn you that this is an illegal collection of information, that this is a violation of existing legislation. And for that we will have to answer immediately after the New Year. That's what I promise you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u115	2010 Yeah, one minute, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u116	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, this bill, he, by the way, didn't get a positive evaluation on the profile committee. But I'll say this bill is primarily directed against the poorest to protect the richest. And you can see that clearly in the bill itself. Speaking of whether to vote for him or not, I think the Supreme Council is going to demonstrate in this situation something like this, zero voting for this bill, and it would be the best. Decline and never return to him again. Because if we're speaking in essence, the earth, really, has become, let's say, disgraceful enough. Speaking of judges giving six hectares to the Constitutional Court today, I don't know if it's going to be a football stadium or two football stadiums? And they haven't given the MPs there who think they're coming or not coming, supporting or not supporting. This has become a source of bribery. So I think the Ministry of Internal Affairs needs to deal with other crimes that matter, not care.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u117	Yes, the discussion is over. Dear colleagues, let's be clear. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on ownership in the field of land relations]] Registration number 5600. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:17]] For-29 The bill was rejected. Yes, Your Honor, we need to consider a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for State Veterinary Authorities. Registration number 6030. The Professional Committee and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration are offering to take as a basis. Is there no objection? Voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, we do. Come on. [[12:52:00]] For 124 Dear colleagues, we have. I'm particularly explaining to Leonid Mikhailovich that if you want your bill to be considered today, let's work more quickly. We agreed, unfortunately, that in your absence, that in view of the fact that we are working the last plenary week, that this is the last plenary day since the end of this, 2004, a troubled, difficult year, we have to go with honor, with dignity, as they say, to celebrate -- and look at everything we had planned today. So let's be tolerant of each other, as it were. Please, Karmazin, what are your comments on this bill? And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you: let us at least follow procedure. I mean, let them declare the law, they'll say. So this law can be passed, but not as it is now, and not as we voted yesterday: five billion have been put to the village. And I'm afraid they'll go a little elsewhere. I'm afraid most of them can be stolen. So, Adam Ivanovich, let's forget about voting without a report. This is a brutal violation of the Rules. Please, let's say it now. It's a light bill, you can accept it. Someone might have a motive, maybe not, but we vote in favour, Adam Ivanovich. Let's just tolerate each other's moods -- and everything will be great, wonderful. You see, we're going to accept what's normal and what's appropriate is common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u119	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. We'll take it all at the same time. Please, Dougan, one minute. From where, Sergey Vasilovich, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Here's really two questions. First of all, it is technical: bringing into line with the adopted laws on medicine, veterinary medicine, and the Law on Administrative Violations. That's the first part, that's where the qualifications change. And second of all, the fines are increasing. The biggest fine is 300 bucks. It was between 17 and 30 bucks. And there's nothing here. But it's very important because veterinary medicine, you know what kind of problems it's dealing with: it's bringing meat from Europe, and there's all kinds of freaks and stuff, and so on, you know that. This does not mean that this law does not have the right to adopt. I'll ask you to gather around, cheer up and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u121	Yes, at the request of Yuri Anatoliovich, the first deputy minister reported. Who else has registered? Please, Chernewsky, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u122	So, first of all, this law expands the circle of stationery. Yeah, I forgot to say. Chernovetski, “Our Ukraine”, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. That's the law. Look, you're such an old man, aren't you? - and you're acting like a child! You need to talk to a psychiatrist! That's an honest word. . expands the number of officials in the national veterinary authorities. I mean, few more people who take bribes have to expand them because they can't live without bribes, that's the problem. . and gives the right to deal with cases without trial to the police. I mean, if some pensioner's cat got warmed up by a communist, right? - then the militia officer's gonna take her out by the seams, and she's gonna be fined. It's all right. It's all right. That's what this law is all about. Nothing good comes out of the government today. Why, is that even what we're talking about? Bullshit! I have three minutes, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u123	No, thank you. Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Yes, “you must call, children, parents”. Is that what you're saying? Thank you, yes. Yes, please, I put to the vote - Leonid Mikhajlovich, vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for State Veterinary Authorities. 6030. Please vote in kind. [[12:57:14]] For-191 Dear colleagues, let us mobilize, but we do not generally adopt the law in the first reading. Yes, I'm voting for acceptance as the basis for the first reading. Please vote. [[12:57:52]] For 215 Overruled. We'll wait half a month, we'll start the seventh session, we'll look at it. There's no questions. Dear colleagues, if you please, we will now vote on the two laws and move on to different ones. Draft law amending the Ukrainian law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine. Registration number 5357, the author of the draft law. Is there a need to report? The profile committee, the Widow of Gennady Josephovich, proposes to take the basis. We'll vote then. Please, one minute. Dear colleagues, do you agree that your law should be considered or not? Dear colleagues, in view of our approach to 13 hours, at 13 a.m. according to our regulations, I ask that you sign up for a different appointment. Before it's written down, I want to make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sigal Yevgen Yakovitch, into the faction of the People's Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian national deputy Kuzmenko Petar Pavlovich into the party's "One Ukraine". Please give us a list of those who signed up for the discussion at the Miscellaneous. It takes an hour. Please, Dry, prepare Semenyuk. There's your faction, look. Please, the dry one passes the word to Rachan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u124	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, interfractional association of Deputies of Chernobyl. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. In the last days, letters, telegrams, telephone calls from people with disabilities, and older ones have come to me, as have other deputies. In Ukraine, the population of this category is over 4.8 million. Citizens. More than 2.7 million persons with disabilities are officially registered. persons. The 1st group's disabled are about 320 grand. A man. These respected people are asking us to allow them to exercise their constitutional right, to show their will in the December 26 elections for the future president of Ukraine. Participants in the fighting: Sergey Ivanovich Makarov, Vera Vasilevna Neighboro, Semen Davidovich Zelzer of the Eupatoria wrote: "We, the participants in the fighting, liberated Ukraine from the fascists, and restored the national household. We are law-abiding citizens of our country and most of us are 80 years of age. Disabled 2nd, 3rd group have been having major problems with movement, leg diseases, and recently voting at home. It was a holiday for us, and your voice is taken into account by the State. Now the Ukrainian Parliament and the President have denied us such a right. We realized that our only right not to live on this earth, not to participate in the life of the country, but to die. In the case of persons with disabilities, the 1st group to whom they came home would require copies of the pension certificate or certificates of the medical and social expert commission certified by the notary for a certain fee. The law also eliminates the election of some 100,000 sick citizens who are regularly treated under household conditions. They're mostly non-transportable patients. The disabled of the Great Homeland War, the labors, the Chernobylites, the Afghans won their election rights. It is difficult to explain to the electorate that two dozen votes were not sufficient to fulfil their constitutional rights to address this issue at the Supreme Council session. The deputies from our Ukraine, BUT, Soccer and others did not support it. Therefore, from the rostrum of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I apologize to my constituents for my insurmountability, together with members of the same-minded people, to support them and to exercise legitimate constitutional law. And we ask all Ukrainian citizens to take all vehicles, regardless of time and cost, to the polling stations. With the New Year, dear friends, fellow countrymen, with the Red Christ! Thank you for your patience with us. God save you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u125	Please, the Semenyuk Socialist faction. Prepare Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u126	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, first of all I want to say, let's not be pharisaic about the fact that disabled people have no right to vote. All persons with disabilities who have the first group will, accordingly, be approached by the people and will receive the right to vote. And all that shushing you wanted to do with the hard-pants and the 35 percent vote on the house, it was determined today by the decision you used today. First of all, I want to address the voters who are addressing us, calling the faction about why the Socialist faction supported Victor Andryovich Yushchenk's election. First of all, according to the materials of the convention, we have made it clear that we do not support a representative from authority, and today we are Janukovic. The other one. We supported Viktor Andryovich in the election, based on the fact that he had actually fulfilled it by signing a political agreement today. We accepted today in this session hall what 315 votes to vote in favour of the moratorium on the implementation of the land. This is the implementation of the political agreement, which was declared by both socialists and representatives of our Ukraine, and representatives of various political parties. Today, a political treaty marked a vote on political reform. We brought him into line and voted in this session room. It's also been accepted and it's been pointed out that all the resonance cases will be investigated, and we think that this standard can be done by Viktor Andriyovich, the more that we already have a movement in this respect. So all the accusations that we've kind of deviated from the software documents, I mean, it's just fornication from the evil one. We supported Viktor Andriyovich on the basis that people today support a democratic system. We support, based on the fact that we, as socialists, are today in favour of democracy, freedom, Ukraine. And I think tomorrow, the next day, the vote that will take place in Ukraine, people will say honestly -- for Ukraine, for the people, for the better life, for the slogan that socialists are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u127	Yes, please, Manchulenko, "Our Ukraine." After him, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u128	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka block. Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! We are ahead of the adoption of an extremely important decision for the fate of our country, for the fate of the Ukrainian people, for the future Ukrainian people. On December 26, a second round of presidential elections will be held. What choice will be made on December 26 will depend on the future of our country, the future of our people for many years to come. We are facing a choice: either we want to become a wealthy country where the letter of the law will rule or we become a country where "ideals" will rule. I believe that the Ukrainian people, the loving people, the hardworking people, the talented people, deserve to have in Ukraine the rule of law the letter of the law so that we can develop in accordance with democratic European principles, the principles where the rule of law is in force. I am convinced that we can all live in a wealthy, rich state, where every human being feels like a full-fledged host on his own land, and that the 3-4 clans, as they are now in Ukraine, do not usurp power, as they are now, so they want to do it for the future, keeping themselves in power for many years ahead, and so that power is chosen honestly and transparently by the Ukrainian people, and that people choose the leaders they consider necessary. I am convinced that Ukraine and the Ukrainian people will make the right choice and will choose a worthy President, who, not by word but by deed, has proved in all his life that he serves his people, serves the good of this people and wants Ukraine to be counted in the world as a great, powerful, legal and prosperous state. Victor Yushchenko is such a candidate. I'm talking to all the voters, all the radios, all the people who are watching the session broadcast now, so that we can get into the responsibilities and come to the elections. They came to the elections, did not relax, for on December 26, we must give our vote for the candidate who served, served and served the Ukrainian people, Victor Yushchenka. I'm asking my natives to come to the elections on December 16th to make the appearance high enough and make even better results than it was November 21st. The Chernobyl area voted 75 percent for Viktor Yushchenka, and my constituency voted 85 percent. I believe in my countrymen, I believe in the Ukrainian people, that he will make the right choice on December 26 and vote for Victor Yushchenk, for the future of the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u129	Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u130	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Respectable citizens! I wanted to draw your attention, a few days before the end of the electoral campaign, to the fact that today the authorities have found another tool to try to reverse the choice of the people: I mean, to review the relevant submissions to the Constitutional Court. The most paradoxical and interesting question is what is the most important issue of the electoral process and the possibility of rescinding elections through the Constitutional Court’s decision is entrusted to the most famous person in the history of constitutionalism in Ukraine by Vasil Nimchenk, a judge who in due course, taking into account the terms of his stay under Leonid Kuchma, calculated that one plus one would be three terms. For this, of course, the authorities have assigned him, as we always do, in Desert Water near a hectare of land. Apparently, he has little in his territory, yet he wants to be glorified by the proper decisions of the electoral process. But I am absolutely convinced that the absolute majority of the members of the Constitutional Court, like the members of the Supreme Court, understand their responsibility before the people and before the law, because they did not take an oath before Kuchma and Yanukovic, but before their own people. They will make decisions that will not take away people’s choices, and elections will take place as provided for by valid legislation. The second moment is very important, it is related to the fact that we have recently heard a lot of interesting information from the offended or, as I said, from the series "Poor Yanukovic" on the channel "Ukraine," about how Leonid Kuchma or, as the people say, "President of the House" was bullied by Janukovic. [[in a political sense]] I watched and found several newspapers one very interesting piece of Michael Melnicken’s records: How Leonid Kuchma and Yanukovic have managed the country together since 1997. Before the presidential election campaign in 1999, Janukovic came to Kuchma and said he was concerned that not all business is under the roof in Ukraine, and asked permission from Leonid Kuchma to take "under the roof" the whole business. He said it's strange that these people don't pay taxes to the authorities and "we don't control it." And Leonid Danilovich, in 1999, told Viktor Yanukovic that he would "make up" from A to I with every commercial structure, with every businessman. And I think that the way Leonid Kuchma and Victor Janukovich handled business, today you can write whole books because during the election campaign, you know, the businessmen took taxes three months ahead. No country knew that. So I am absolutely convinced that no one will ever try to play the election. The elections will end as envisaged, and the Central Election Commission will announce Victor Yushchenk as President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u131	Please, Shurma. There's no doll. The miller.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u132	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'm going to divide my speech into a few parts. First of all, this is about the organization of the work of the people's deputies. I am addressing both the Rules of Procedure and you, Adam Ivanovich, in order to organize the recording system as national MPs speak. The Rules are set out in paragraph 3.3. 4 parts 1 from 9 to 18 are recorded. I really want you all to get some sleep, because at seven o'clock, the people's deputies are standing here signing up. And whoever wants to sign up, they don't have an objective opportunity to come here at half past eight, they're out of line. Let us return to the norm of the factions, and let the factions give the opportunity to speak to those who are experts. The second is about the budget. There is one very important faction, whose black-brow representative spoke on television all night yesterday about the fact that the budget was voted by those who have no conscience and those who defend their interests. I'd like to remind this person that he's not from the left party, but from the left party, because if he hadn't voted yesterday for the budget, and we've gone way too far through ourselves, people wouldn't have gotten that pension that they have today. It's another thing that's either small or small, and there wouldn't be a minimum wage. And what he says about the oligarchs, let him see what he's driving and whose interests he's lobbying. Finally, yesterday’s budget was not limited to those who were in business or who had lost their interests. That's 26 numbers. All Ukrainian citizens should come and vote. They will be victorious and defeated. And I want the winners to always be generous, and the conquerors to get rid of the beastly rock. This is very important for society. 2004 passed. On those weekends, many of us need to sit down to think about who to rethink all the processes that have taken place in our society. But I would like to wish for 2005 that Ukraine, both consciously and physically, would always remain a unitary state. And for that unitary state, there was never one thing: that betrayal in the fullest sense should leave the territory of Ukraine in thought, in soul, in concession. And I would like to wish all of Ukraine attention and respect as an object of those processes. which are happening and never subject to the redistribution of one’s interests. I welcome everyone to the New Year, and I wish all the citizens of Ukraine good luck and good fortune and harmony, and, above all, to the social-democrats of Ukraine (United States). Let's stick to it, 'cause that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u133	Please, Mikola Melnik, the faction of the socialists of Boki, Karnauh, I can't see. Filthy. Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine" next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! I'd like to respond to yesterday's state budget vote. Once again, it showed the clan interest in the state execution and what our colleague had just said, that it was necessary to vote in favour of the budget that our pensioners could not receive pensions. It's not like that. Pensioners will receive pensions. But when I talk about this budget, I didn't vote for it yesterday either, because it completely erases life in the country. This budget is completely anti-Selian. If you take what was on the revenue side of the budget, it's 96 billion, 20 billion more against last year, and the village is 600 million less than it was assigned to this year. I couldn't vote for this budget, too, because this year it's $600 million. The village didn't get enough, it didn't get enough land, and it was budgeted. The village for the second year is under 600 million dollars in 2005. And it was on the social fronts that were announced that the village had been declared an agricultural sector. The corresponding state budget grew by 20 billion, there was a year of rebuilding the village, it was said, but it wasn't the village that got the money that it was. I'm sorry, dear friends. I want to greet everyone with the New Year, to wish them happiness, health, and I want to say that we cannot refer to the village as it was set up in our budget today. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u135	Yes, please, Vladimir Bondarenko. The faction of our Ukraine. Brother-in-law, I can't see. I'm gonna get ready for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u136	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear friends, today society is living in the last days of the election, and surely every person is concerned about how this vote will take place, whether it will end the long marathon that has become the acquisition of all the world’s political development today. Nowhere in the world have I seen such long-lasting electoral marathons with so many forgeries, with such political turmoils and such a persistent reluctance on the part of the authorities to give up their positions. Of course, when we analyze what's causing this, it's first of all the seizing of power for our chairs. They created upbuilding gifts and participated in their implementations by both ministries and departments and, above all, the Department of Transport and others. They invented voting at home when 35 percent of people voted at home in Santa Claus. They have created double listings of people and dead people who have long been resting in God and who continue to vote. This was done by the authorities, and today we have power coming from the center of President Kuchma of Ukraine, from his administration. And whoever's talking about some administrative resource in the West doesn't have that administrative resource, because all the heads of state administration are assigned exclusively from the center, from Kiev, and only Leonid Kuchma and his administration. They fought to ensure that no changes were made. Kuchma did not sign the laws; he bound it with various problems, with guarantees of his own safety and security. He has been blackmailing society for the last time by not signing the Law, which would allow for the printing of the ballot papers on time. I think he was actively supported by some groups and factions that are in the Supreme Council today and I think history will give them an assessment. Today we have a change to the Law and, again, a touch to prevent them from being allowed in the Constitutional Court. I want to tell you that today this Law gives all people the opportunity to vote, and it is not worth putting aside hysteria for the protection of the disabled and the sick. Let's take the city of Kiev. More than a hundred special vehicles have been dedicated to transporting people to the area. Huge numbers of volunteers have been identified, ambulances, nurses. All people will be able to vote and there is no need to fear it today. In Kiev, I would like those counterfeiters who made these choices not to prevent again from doing what they did and the chemical attacks on the boxes when the twelve boxes filled with ballot boxes were destroyed. Hundreds of authors were used, whose ink had disappeared. I think the Chinese were wiser, and they showed these attacks on their will, on their voice, and prevented them. It's a new attack today. In all the boxes in Kiev, there was an instruction on how to vote, "Put a plush against Yashchenk and wipe out Yanukovich." But it's a lie and there's only one sign to be put on, and I would like to urge everyone to consider this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u137	Please, Puzakov. He's giving Gur's word to prepare for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u138	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština On the day of the so-called orange revolution, Communists are accused of not supporting the battle of the orange opposition by valid authority. This is especially true of all socialist television channels that find no room for themselves. That's four of them, they'll find Socitern. Now, in order for them to clean up the dirt, we see them with nuisances. In the end, it all cleared up. Both Yushchenka’s team and socialists bathe in American capital. The people have come to understand and have seen who is who. Do you really not care how you later view people in their eyes? What will you tell them then? They've forgotten how you and we were called fascists by your "friends" on the Independence field. Why didn't they join our ranks then? Maybe they didn't want to support the Communists, so were you there? Why, then, did they not provide our drinkers with tents, lodgings, and food? In whose scenario were the spikes thrown under the buses and not allowed into Kiev? And you forgot all about it so quickly. This orange mist is going to disintegrate quickly. It's not the kind of people you choose, comrades, if you're still socialists. Even today, the people are convinced that only Communists defend the interests of the people. Don't be pleased that the Communist rating has fallen. If there were an election today, the Communists would not vote six percent, as you say, but five times as many. Why don't you socialists join the communists in the struggle to establish a really national, not criminal oligarchic power in Ukraine. Communists for Ukraine to take up such a society, where a person would feel as a host, that he would have value rather than be a slave. We are for neighborly relations and economic ties with the cousins of the former Soviet Union. And you don't like it. After the Company's ban, many people did not forget when you, some socialists, said that you were Communists for the rest of your life. And once the Company's ban is lifted, you'll be back in the ranks of its fighters. And today you are fiercely fighting the Company, you, your colleagues wherever you can and how you can throw the Communists in the dirt. That's not very nice. You're probably confused like Duska in the hop, so take off your mask faster, it'll be better. And to you, the distinguished voters, happiness, health in the New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u139	Please, Gurov, faction of Ukraine. Prepare Widowhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u140	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Honourable colleagues of deputies, respected TV and radio speakers, on the Eastern calendar of the coming year 2005 - fifth. Yes, a rooster doesn't carry golden eggs, but how beautiful it is! Dostoyevsky wrote that beauty would save the world! I don't vouch for the world, but the fact that beauty has to save Ukraine doesn't give me any doubt. Dear countrymen, congratulations on New Year's Eve. I wish you the best. Now to the prose. I mean, we haven't had everything as beautiful as we'd like in the past year. First of all, the country's budget adopted yesterday. Yeah, we took him in. Although many articles did not please me as a member of the Iron and Steel Krivbass. But we had to accept it, because in case of non-admission, my pensioners could have been cut short and my pensioners would have been virtually paralyzed to work with the budget of the city of the Horn of Curve. What is wrong with me and my poachers, and what needs to be corrected in finalizing the document that has already been adopted? First of all, these are inter-budget transfers. Well, you can borrow it. In the 2004 draft budget, the budget estimates for Krivbasse Minfin amounted to 255 million. Grieve. It's after the disputes, the evidence, and so on. But my perverts through "I can't" have made the most of their efforts and implemented those indicators. The growth was 6 per cent. So they made 271 million grevens, while GDP increased by 10 per cent. Now in the budget, in the 2005 project, Minfin provided new indicators for this city worker - 330 million bracelets should be budgeted for the city. That's 60 million growth in just one year, that's 22 percent growth. This is with only 6 per cent of GDP in 2005. So where is the reality of budget implementation? After all, poachers are now required to pay 51 million dollars to the budget, except for all other taxes, i.e. 17 million each month. It's sacrilege. First of all, that's, uh... I don't even know what words you're saying. It's a mockery of the 750 thousand poachers. My countrymen are labourers, I deserve more attention and respect. They're the ones who deserve their hard work. I hope that, in adjusting the budget, my comments are the comments of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u141	Thank you, Vadim Mikolaiovich. "Beautiful cock" is beautiful, but let's not let him go. Yes, please, Widow of Gennady Josephovich, Our Ukraine. I can't see the baby. Kadenjuk, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! On December 26, the Ukrainian people must choose the President. Society today is electrified, excited, and all officials at all levels of power have to do everything they can to ensure that elections are held in an honest, transparent manner, and finally a dot was placed in this exhausting political marathon. A few days ago, information was published that the re-falsification of the election was being prepared by using investment registration cards in a passport document. With a few such gifts, a person could vote on more than one occasion. This technology on a scale could be compared to the falsification of November 21st by means of resilient vouchers. The point of the matter is that the Ministry of Internal Affairs Order No. 571 introduced non-legislative deposit slips to the passport document for registration of the place of residence, which could lead to the introduction of persons who are temporarily present in an area into the voter list. The decree went beyond the Freedom of Movement Act and free choice of residence and failed to register with the Ministry of Justice. The Human Rights Committee at its meeting discussed all this information in detail with the participation of representatives of the CLTC, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the CLP and other central institutions. I want to draw the attention of those who are now looking and listening to us to the basics: the electorate has the right to vote only for the place of permanent residence, a mark that is not in any depository, but in a passport. Second, voters who want to vote for a place of temporary residence can do so only by means of a strong display. I understand that, unfortunately, not all citizens will be able to get to know the C.V.C.C.E. explanation, because once again, I am underlining that the investment cards for the passport are not valid. Be careful and watchful, come to the polling station and vote for the command of your heart, namely, Victor Andryovich Yushchenka. Happy New Year! With Christmas Christ! With the new president, the new Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u143	Please, Kadenuk, Hard Ukraine. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u144	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends, the National Security and Defence Committee has received many appeals from military and military pensioners, and mainly from issues relating to their social protection. On this point, I would like to inform you what has recently been done by the National Security and Defence Committee. During this session, work was done by the Armed Forces Committee to improve legislation in this area. Yes, we have developed and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a series of draft legislations, documents. These include draft laws relating to amendments to the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, the primary and regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some others, and draft laws to improve the provisions of the Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. The most acute and common social problems include the level of housing problems. The number of soldiers waiting to receive housing for this time has decreased by 6,000, amounting to over 48,000. Its solution is addressed to the recently adopted Supreme Council of Ukraine Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, which establishes a new order of accommodation for military personnel. This law takes effect on January 1, 2005. The main task of this law is to form a powerful service housing fund in military units and to provide housing for military, chosen places to live after being released from military service. An acute social problem also persists in the proportion of the pensions of military personnel who have been released or retired at various times. On June 15, 2004, according to the initiative of the Supreme Council Committee, Ukraine passed a law amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. Military officials who are entitled to a pension under this law and their family members are calculated the amount of pre-retirement cash security, taking into account the corresponding salaries of the military special rank, the interest allowance for service of the years, monthly additional types of financial security, is to be calculated in terms of allowances, allowances, increases and bonuses to the extent established by law. The Law will take effect on January 1, 2005. Moreover, the law establishes that individuals who were previously assigned a pension in accordance with the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, Lechchenka, the Communist faction. I can't see the colonists. Get ready for Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u146	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! There are two days left before the next tour of the capital show, which in Ukraine is called the election of the President of Ukraine. His foreign directors aim to confuse the disadvantaged voters so far, an independent state, to vote for one of the capitalist candidates against themselves, against any prospect of improving the lives of their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. And that, unfortunately, is what they're capable of. Just as most of our honest people suffered while they were being robbed, for the fate of the heroes of the movie "Rabina Izaura," "The Many Are Also Crying" and many other common people today suffer for the fate of one or more candidates from the bourgeois-Oligarchic clans. Instead of making a sober assessment of the situation and saying no to Yanukovich and Yushchenka, they are thrilled to see who in the course of the debates or election races wins more sympathy among the deceived. My fellow Communists and I have already spoken from the rostrum of Parliament and beyond to both candidates, if they have a conscience, considering the turmoil in Ukrainian society, with a view not to allowing the integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine to be lost, to know their candidates from the babbling. Like a pea against a wall. Because they don't have a conscience. Instead, bags and cuffs with money, not their own, strangers, looted. With Yanukovic, he was always in charge, because Kuchma under American pressure was always playing Yushchenka. Janukovich also understood that. And with Yushchenk, it's just the people's mountains. Although during his banking and premiere work, he has contributed significantly to the robbery of the vast majority of voters who have deprived them of their social security benefits, their belief in the future, many of them unwittingly support it. Taking advantage of the paternity colossus under the strong breath of American and internally looted money, it lost its resistance and wailed, and our nasties were infuriated. Their injustices do not find a legal assessment where it might be unpunished a minute ago that the relevant agitators in the historic centre of ancient Chernigov on the facades of almost all buildings in the metric letters of yellow-hot color wrote, "Jushtenko, yes!".. The holy place of the monument was not missed in honor of the liberation of the district center from Hitler’s invaders in Victory Square. In Priluki, Chernigiv district, the same was done at the site of the monument to Vladimir Ilchi Lenin. The question is, "Where's the authorities, where's the police, where's the prosecutor's office, where's the CBC?".. Only for this would Yushchenka have to be removed from the mooring. Is it possible to go to power by gangs? And since then, he's been showing his hands and he keeps saying that they're kind of clean. I say to believers and unbelievers, "God forbids us from such a president!".. And I welcome all the voters to New Year's Eve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u147	Please, Mother, don't freak out. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u148	Vitaly Majko, a party of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Dear Ukrainian people, I would like to congratulate you on the last day of today's session, first of all, on the upcoming festivals. To wish for human happiness, to complete all the electoral processes that go on. I would like to wish for all people to choose who they want, and for that to be possible, it was the will of every person to vote. A party of industrialists made their choice, and she announced who she was going with. I'd like to tell you one thing about yesterday's budget. The Supreme Council voted in favour of the budget and, indeed, it is a social one, but social one is temporary because there is no basis under this budget at all and I would like to look to all Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs and assure them that the following year a party of industry and entrepreneurs will take a look at the many positions of this budget in the area of industrial development and the business of Ukraine. Without industrial development, without the development of an innovative model to make life happy in the coming years, the wealth of Ukraine. it's not possible. We need to understand that this budget should be the last in Ukraine. The budget should be based on laws, not laws, to be budgeted. It's an abnormal phenomenon. And the fact that we were forced to accept such a budget without economics is a very difficult situation. You can imagine how a family would live, who would decide to spend everything on things and not to think about the future of their family. The same is true today. So I want to say again to all the industries and entrepreneurs in Ukraine that the task of the PPU party will be to achieve such legislation, such changes as to enable us to work interestingly, to work effectively for all businesses and industries in Ukraine. Once again with the festivals of you and I wish that December 26 we would complete all these great trials and that everyone would succeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u149	Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction, prepare for Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u150	Yuri Solomatin. Respectable compatriots, brothers and sisters. Ukraine has become a “exchange coin” in geopolitical games between the emerging Euro-Atlantic, Catholic and Protestant West and the dwindling Orthodox and Putinian Russia under its pressure. The third round of voting in the election of the President of Ukraine will end on 26 December is a stark historic confrontation. The Ukrainian people were set before the choice, as was the time of Bogdan the Hmelnick: with whom? Will the people be able to make the right decision in the face of violent information and psychology? The issue will remain open for days. Soviets have been taught from childhood: We have a wise people, people are always right. Accordingly, they spoke of the wisdom of the collective, of the party, of its leaders. Then it turned out that both the chiefs and the party were wrong. However, so far, orange or blue-white politicians continue to sing the wisdom of the Osanna people slylyly, and in fact use their trustworthiness and their self-love for useful purposes, so that, once again, as a gang of shuler-towers, the people around the finger can be proclaimed. There are no examples of such confidence and naivety. The early Bible times when Christ preached to the people of Israel, the people welcomed him with awe and sang “O Sanna. ” And the people cried out to the Roman prosecutor's office, "Cut him down." And the second example of the twentieth century. In 33 years, in the centre of a civilized Europe, the cultural German people in free bourgeois-democracy elections brought to the Reichstag the National Socialist Party of Germany, headed by Adolf Hitler. As soon as it's over, I know. There is now a competition between Blue-White Yanukovic and Orange Yushchenko for the Presidential Council in Ukraine. Former sons renounced their father, President Kuchma. Yeah, Kuchma's far from Taras Bulba. And if Janukovic is anything like Ostap, the eldest son of an old Cossack colonel, then Yushchenko is the new model edition of the younger son of Andrei who sold for Polish, i.e. European Jube, Orthodox Faith and Kazakh Society. Is there a choice for the people? For those who have not renounced the thousand - year history of their people, this choice is evident. As with the immodest information and psychological manipulation of the collective consciousness of the people to prove that historical truth to them, it is necessary to tell him this truth over and over again, no matter how cruel it may be. The people must fear themselves, have courage, have courage to cleanse themselves of the defilement of selfishness and greed, to renounce the Hallowed name of "the locals" and "the mourning" and to restore to themselves the great title of "his greatness the people". Happy New Year to you, the glorious heirs of Bogdan Hmelnick and Taras Bulba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u151	Socialist faction, Bulba. I can't see Demyokin. Bespaliah gave the word to Lebedovsky. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u152	Dear voters! Socialist faction, Stephen Bulba. The theme of my speech would have been different if it hadn't been for previous speakers from the Communist faction. I am convinced that all voters have once again had the opportunity to see the true essence of today's traitorous Company policy towards their own electorate. The ultra - revolutionary rhetoric is based on one — infamous service to a criminalized regime. And it's not socialists, it's the Communists, it's the Company that's losing influence among the population. The faction of socialists comes with a lot of letters that show that the people have finally figured out who is who. Here is one of them, a letter written from the village of Birka Zinkowski district of Poltava by the first group of Pocerun Alexander Alexiyovich. He writes this: I'm sending you a district newspaper called the Voice of Zinkoshtschiny of November 19th, which contains an article by the first secretary of the Paradise Company of Ukraine, Trigoza Peter Ivanovich. [[Zinkovsky District of Poltava]] "The electorate, it's good to think about who you're going to have as president" is the title of the article. "It is Peter Ivanovich himself,--who wrote the elector--without directing his superior party leadership to appeal to the inhabitants of the region to vote for President Yanukovich of Ukraine's post, because he was his entire life a nominal party unit, including the deputy head of the Rajvikon. So his party boss Simone has a double moral and nothing to say to the communists that they don't support any of the candidates. The Communists clearly support Yanukovich. Once again, during the previous vote under that member of the electoral commission who voted at home, for 10 votes for Yanukovich, 400 dollars were paid each, which could be confirmed by those who took the money. This money is forcing the brothers to live in poverty. I am a first group invalid, but I fully support the amendments to the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act, and I think they will allow for more fair elections. That's what people think. And I'm sure if the Company faction, if its leadership doesn't change its electoral policy, you won't have a faction at all in the Supreme Council of the next call. But we are not happy about the fact that we are united in the left hand movement, but the real left hand movement that will protect the interests of our fellow countrymen. With New Year's Eve, respectable voters! Good luck to you in the New Year's, with the new President, who will give you the prospect of democratic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u153	The word is Lebedivsky, "Our Ukraine." Get ready. I can't see the swans. Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! In my speech, I wanted to draw your attention to the facts of mass fraud that took place on the first, second round, and that are now preparing for the vote, the third vote. I think the facts are already known to everyone, everyone has heard of them, seen them. Those falsifications were organized by the authorities, a team of the former Prime Minister who is currently on vacation. But given the speeches now in the Communist session room, they want it or don't want it, so they're going to join the team. In particular, these facts took place on the first round when we heard and saw that a large number of people were not included in the voters' lists that were in all the previous elections, but they were in those elections there, they weren't there. And that was in areas where most citizens were willing to vote for Victor Yushchenk. On the second round, this team started using more sophisticated methods, and in particular, there were facts when ink pens were used in polling stations, which disappear after writing. In Kyiv, in particular, it had a seat in Shevchenkovsky district at 70, in the Brest-Litov prospectus, when one of the members of the business commission on the bulletin was recording his name and signature, and in ten minutes this inscription disappeared. This was recorded by observers. In Thessalom district of Kiev, 47 and 64 were also found in secret ballot booths. Clearly, the ballot filled with such a pen disappeared for a time. This was the only place in the Sanhedrin district in District 73. Such incidents occurred in other regions of Ukraine. And that says that it was a mass character, it was systematically organized. And the purpose of all of this was to deprive voters of the right to vote, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. We have made appropriate parliamentary inquiries to the BSC and to the Henprocurator's Office, and we look forward to a public disclosure of the answer to this question. I would like to invite Victor Yushchenk’s supporters to come to the polling station on the day of the election, to invite their acquaintances and relatives. And it is clear that in the new year we will come with the new National President Victor Yushchenk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u155	It's Billorus, the faction of Block Tymoshenko. Get ready for Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u156	Oleg Belarus, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Dear national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, voters! On behalf of the People’s Dept. of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, I would like to congratulate you on the coming New Incorruptible 2005 and wish you great and happy changes in your life of happiness and better fortune for all families. Today, Ukraine is at a large and important historical crossroads. The heavy legacy of Bushmism in the last 12 years of this regime is a problem that the entire Ukrainian people must solve. The time for change has come and today the most important task of the people, politicians and citizens is to bring together all the people to mobilize these forces to equip Ukraine, to modernize the economy, to raise science, education, culture, the spirituality of our people. Today, more than ever before, we have a real choice: either the power of the people through direct nationalization and democratic development, as the most important resource of development, or the power of the clans, that is to say, the extension of the power of that power. Not surprisingly, the wise philosopher says that "good authority cares for the people and every citizen, and bad authority cares for them to have even more power." President Roosevelt of the United States said, for good reason, that a poor person is the best material for dictatorship. Remember that in Ukraine today 80 percent of the poor are still poor, and so our hope is that every citizen will have a new government and a national development and change strategy that will become real for every citizen, every person in Ukraine. I call on the political forces on the left and on the issue to stop the controversy, to stop the hysteria that is happening today, and to focus on the decisions of Ukraine, because we see what forces continue the severe inertia. 2005 budget. All the promises of an active authority about some cosmic rate of economic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Singer. I can't see Polack. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Thank you. Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! I would like first of all to welcome the coming 2005 of my countrymen, who made their choice on November 21st this year, in my opinion, the faithful choice, and who, I hope, will make the right choice after tomorrow. Therefore, my esteemed compatriots, the respected pilgrims, with New Year's Eve, you, happiness, health, all well-being, and not to repeat those coalitions that have already been going on in this high year. That's the first one. The other one. I was going to, frankly, talk about some of the things that have to do with the government budget that have to do with social protection, but, unfortunately, there's one thing that I've been thinking about today in this room that sounds on the radio today. Some of our colleagues accuse the Socialist Party of Ukraine of what. I would like to remind you, taking advantage of the opportunity that the Socialist Party of Ukraine was created on October 26, 1991, to raise the social justice flag that fell out of the hands of those who, I've already talked about it once before, and I'll say again, sold us out and betrayed us in 1991. Let the listeners draw their own conclusions. And the Socialist Party of Ukraine has never, I emphasize and emphasize, never deviated from its programming principles, we have always fought for true government, we've always fought for social justice, we've always tried and sought and tried to implement our programming principles, and we've never warned anyone or anyone. We've been working. And those who warn, let them continue to warn, and the people will come to their conclusion. And the last. I would like each of the Ukrainian citizens to come up with a clear, concrete and very principled approach to that sign in the bulletin that he has to post the day after tomorrow. The criterion must be conscience, civic maturity, and civic courage. And I believe that democracy is winning in Ukraine, and I believe in the next stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u159	Please, Karmazin "Our Ukraine" and we will determine that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u160	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I was approached by the parents of children suffering from tuberculosis, accompanied by pathological disturbances in their eyesight regarding the unfavorableness that are now under the direction of the Ministry of Health in conspiring with the Odessa City Head, Ruslan Bodelan. They report that by these orders, the chief physicians of the Lusdorff anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums, the Green Horca, the Hajibei under threat of dismissal are entrusted to a limited-liability society called Vertical, made by the Ministry of Investment Contracts, which are scheduled to give up land within a three-day period. The Lusdorff sanatorium is seven hectares, the Green Bitter is six hectares, changing the location of the Hajubej sanatorium complex to 105 places equipped with the necessary medical equipment, by moving to the village of Usatov, where there are no natural medical conditions at all. The implementation of these projects and the further alienation of the land of the sanatoriums are scheduled to take place by December 30, that is, as long as the criminal authority is present. The sick and their close relatives are deeply concerned about the decision to eliminate TB, including children, their constitutional right to medical care. What cynicism did the local authorities have when they asked about the transfer of boarding school No. 34 to Lvivsky Street, 3, which specializes in teaching mentally retarded children with disabilities. University of Lviv,5, which specializes in the living and teaching of visually impaired children when they are forced to enter into a partnership with a limited liability company called Comfort Ukraine and a private enterprise called Arnoinvest. In line with these contracts, the construction of a four-section multi-story residential building has already begun in the area of boarding schools. The prosecutor's office is silent, the renewed old prosecutor Piscoon is silent. Mr. Piscoon, open your eyes and see if you're illegally assigned, but you're in this position and you have to work. The massive and gradual reduction of the network of anti-tuberculosis sanatoriums is a gross violation of the requirements of part three of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is also a violation of the TB law. Honorable National Deputies, reputable Ukrainian people. In the eyes of everyone, everything that can be pulled out of this state is stretched out before the elections. So it's very important to change power now. And I want them not to believe the myths that are especially prevalent and spread in Odessa. They came up with what I thought was my signature, but they wrote "Jiri Karamazin" in the local newspaper of Bodelana forging Yashchenka. I didn't write anything like that! I'm Carmazine. Dear friends, with New Year's Eve you and the new happy Ukraine! Have a good life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, there are three other national MPs here who are very much requested. Please, two minutes. A black man, followed by a Rodionov. Two minutes, I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u162	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. In the entire civilized world, two of the most serious crimes are believed to be manslaughter and the falsification of election results. The government couldn't stand the "democracy test" in the first and second tours, but what happened after that really changed the situation. The Orange Revolution cleared the way for democracy in Ukraine. There's every reason to expect Ukraine to stand the test of democracy on December 26th. Indeed, there are two Ukraines, but it is not the West or the East. And the democratic Ukraine and the oligarchic Ukraine. It's not about Yushchenkov or Yanukovich, it's about how Ukraine's going to go. So this election is a choice of historical destiny, it's a change of power. The main task of the current moment is to eliminate falsification and to rule out a powerful solution to the problem. All this talk about teams, like talking about separatism, I hope it's just a bluff. And we're going to hope that Ukraine doesn't go through with it. It's a very important ability to respect choices and admit defeat. The protest is only possible peacefully and only if the results of the election are falsified. All other questions are outside the legal field and must be punished. As far as the communists are concerned. I'd understand them if their candidate for the presidency were running. Since he's gone, I think their position should be something different. And finally. I call on voters to take action, especially Western Ukraine, Central Ukraine. If there's a shaft of activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Rodionov. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u164	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners, I would like to answer for this a short time two questions that are asked by both acquaintances and strangers and here before me by speakers. One of them: what will happen to Ukraine after the elections? Second, why aren't the communists supporting any of the candidates? To answer these two questions, I always tell people, let's first say what Ukraine is today, what its achievements are in 13 years. And I'll remind you of these achievements, they're all known: that's the first place in Europe for mortality, that's the first place in the disease of AIDS youth, that's the last place of birth. And today, no one is challenging Ukraine's first place in the falsification of the elections. I mean, it's been going on for 13 years. And the question is, is it the moral right of the communists to take over, as they say, to highlight these achievements in 13 years? Of course not. Agree that this is simply impossible. So when they talk about what's going on today? Yes, two candidates, two political forces and two candidates from them, are also involved in this state of society. And we say, well-respected, we have made many promises, and of course we will see to it that these promises are fulfilled somehow. And today you can think of our society as once characterized by one of England's poets, John Don. When England was in a difficult state, he said, "This is a society of ours that is characterized by, remember or hear the bells ring?" You're the one he's calling, the bell. Therefore, the fate of Ukraine is in your hands, and respectable comrades of the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u165	Yes, please, School, follow him Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u166	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. You know, this year is probably the most decisive and important year for Ukraine. So we can say that this year Ukraine declared Ukraine a year in the world. Because it didn't announce it to the UN, it didn't announce any other structure, they declared it to the Ukrainians themselves, because they did the maximum amount of achievements and steps that could be taken. And this is the victory of our Russian at Europence, this is the victory of the Klochkowa, twice the Olympic champion, this is the victory of the Kleckka World Boxing Championship, which is to win the most important in his career situation, he won that year. And most of all, it's the victory of the Ukrainians, who have worked to get out, protect their rights, win themselves first, and do everything they can to win democracy in Ukraine. I think that, despite the desire to stop the locomotive, it is no longer necessary to stop. They can put sand under the wheels, they can drill, but they won't stop, and we'll win for sure. The only thing I'm asking you to do is come to the polls. We know that Yushchenko will win, but he has to win with the biggest breakout so that no one has any doubts. And separately, I would like to address the inhabitants of Odessa. In Odessa, there are constantly some counterfeits, including the spread of a fake and my signature. They used to make fake shampoos, fake jeans, and now they make fake cards. I'd like to say that there's no relation to all the stupid things that are written there, I never had and I don't have, because I'm all I think I'm talking about from this rostrum, and for every word I'm used to answering both life and freedom. So all the crap they write, let those who write be responsible for it. And I'm sure the prosecution will answer those who distribute and write. With the New Year, all of you, with our future victory. And I'm sure in this room we'll meet the winners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u167	Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u168	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! A year ago, everyone was aware of the preparation of the coup d'état by the Government of the United States of America, which had made Ukraine's power independent, had encouraged all 13 unfortunate years to privatize, to liberalize prices, tariffs, which had led to a terrible decline in the economy, the living level of the people, the poverty of the people, to unemployment. And now the United States of America, through its candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, intends to continue the same course only more consistently. If we did not benefit Ukraine, Ukraine had been harmed by troops at the request of the United States, in fact, which had put pressure on the President of Ukraine in Iraq, I am convinced that it would be even worse in the future. Therefore, dear fellow countrymen, I call on you on December 26th to show wisdom. My constituents, who have twice trusted me, have instructed you to say this: show wisdom, ensure the real independence of Ukraine, and do not allow yourself to become fully a colonial State, an independent State of the United States of America. Well, I think 1991 taught you a lot when the same Americans were doing their own coup here. And what this has led to is known to everyone. Poverty, misery, all of this is about U.S. politics. And no matter who it is: Yushchenko or who, we don't need, Ukraine doesn't need such a candidate for presidents and such a president. I want to wish you, in the coming of New Year's Eve, respectable compatriots, health, happiness, greater joy in our lives, success in everything! Good for you, dear countrymen!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-24-m0.u169	No replicas. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to express themselves, had satisfied their desire. And I want to conclude by not informing so many national MPs who are almost here, how many of our radio listeners, with a pretty good message that will raise our sense of pride for the state. The National Space Agency of Ukraine reports. On December 24th, at 13 o'clock, 16 minutes from the Pleseck Space Station, a joint combat analysis of the space and space-based enterprises in Ukraine was launched with two spacecraft, the Sic-1M, and the microsatellite. Missiles and spacecraft for remote sensing of the Earth are designed by the State Development Bureau of the Southern Name of Yangel and manufactured at the production union of the "Southern Makarov". The Cylon-3 missile flight was carried out according to the mission. 42 minutes after the launch, there was a permanent separation of the spacecraft. The altitude of the spacecraft is approximately 670 kilometers [670 km]. The mass of the Ice-1M spacecraft is more than two thousand kilograms, the mass of the microsatellite is 66 kilograms. Space appliances are carried out by experts at the National Centre for Administration and Testing of Space Resources of the National Space Agency of Ukraine, Eupatoria. The information from the spacecraft is taken by the reception center and the processing of special information and the control of the navigational field in the Hmelnicka district, the points that we have in Europe, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk. The science program is for the "Variant" experiment. This is the first international space experiment under the scientific direction of Ukraine. The participants in the experiment are Britain, France, Russia. On such a good note, let us welcome our experts who have a bearing on the cosmic field, and we wish that the New Year will end in a calm, balanced way, confidently entering 2005. I'm reporting that we'll be working in the districts between December 27 and 31. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on 11 January 2005. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
