ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:02:25]] There are 436 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leluk Oleksija Volodymyrovic, into the composition of the Ukrainian MP. He's operational, let him help. Dear colleagues, we have agreed that after a break we will return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on oil, gasoline and diesel, Bills Nos. 5570, 5570-1 and 5570-2. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:03:53]] For 131 But it's like we've registered 435 national deputies. And only 226 are needed to make a decision. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 3, "Ukrainian Regions" - 1, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 25, "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government" - 8, "Trudova Ukraine" - 28, National Agrarian Party - 7, Socialist Party - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Centre" - 13, "Soyuz" - 5, NDP, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 1, Postfraction - 1. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u2	Dude, it's a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, I speak on behalf of the Committee on Finance. I ask you to put on the agenda Bills 5570, 5570-1, 5570-2, 5633, 5675 and 5576. [[Alexandrovian Author]] [[Terehin Author]] [[author Cabinet of Ministers]] I'm asking you, it's the same question. Our Committee has considered it. We'll take it even if we have to try to interfere with the oil market on first reading. Parliament has no right not to interfere. So, Adam Ivanovich, I have a request. To put all these bills in one question, to vote them to put them on the agenda, and today to discuss and decide, at least, one bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u3	The question is answered. We need to put it in order of day and consider the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to encourage the production of motorized gasoline. Alexandrovsky's bill. Editorial number 5633. Please vote for inclusion. [[16:06:35]] For-141 I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Law on Exports of Experts on Gas, on Motor and Diesel Fuel. The bill is written by national MP Terjohin. Bill number 5675. [[16:07:18]] For-153 Yes, the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of entrepreneurial activity is on the vote on inclusion in the agenda and consideration. [[concerning petroleum products]] It's a government bill. Registration number 5576. Please vote. [[16:08:02]] For-187 Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to listen to the proposals of the National MP, the deputy, the first deputy chairman of the Cushka Committee, who proposed that, since all these bills are linked to each other and are intended to solve the same problem, I propose that a proposal be made to define the Hall to put the bill into the agenda and consider the following bills: 5570, 5570-1, 5570-2, Bill 5623, Bill 5675 and Bill 5576, to include it in the agenda and to consider it. [[authors - Moroz, Seminoga, Osika]] [[author - Alexandrovska]] [[author - Terjehohin]] Please vote. [[16:09:17]] For 224 Dear colleagues, everything will be as decided by the hall, don't worry, but I would ask you to adjust to a long-term job, you've dropped your hands very early. Who's in charge of voting on this issue, please make up your mind. [[16:10:02]] For 215 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 0, “Ukraine” - 7, “Communist faction - 57, “Deminiciates” - 38, “Deminiciates” and “The People’s Government” - 21, “Trudova Ukraine” - 29, “The People’s Agrarian Party” - 3, “SPU” - 19, “Timoshenko Block” - 17, “Centre” - 3, “Soyuz” - 12, “NDP” - 4, “PPU” - 5. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I stress that we have put to the vote a whole series of billings on the inclusion in the agenda, where the authors are representatives of virtually different factions, including government. We did not vote, so we did not vote, we will consider the following questions. A school of procedure. Just out of procedure, 'cause I'm gonna turn off the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u4	First of all, I would like to point out that let's try, maybe in some other configurations to put these laws, because I don't understand why the Supreme Council is now opposed to lower fuel prices. I can't figure out what the dog is said to be. Because the price of gasoline will never be reduced in any other way. Because Ukraine does not own oil companies. And it seems to me that the owners of oil companies, those who are speculators of oil and gasoline in Ukraine, have spoken to some who voted against the Ukrainian people. I can't think of anything else! I don't hear the arguments completely clear to me and our voters. Because everyone rides a bus, another municipal transport, and sees what's going on. So I would urge you to go back to that question and somehow lower prices eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u5	Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, these bills, which are being proposed for consideration today, have put in place a real mechanism for lowering the prices of oil-fired stations. And I'm surprised at the position of some national MPs, especially the Agrarian Party, the agrarian faction that is going to be on holiday today before the harvest starts and they don't want to vote for the decline in oil products. I suggest we put this question to the vote again. And I think it should take most of the votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u7	Shufrich. Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u8	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please. It was not clear what laws were included in this list of bills that were to be put into the agenda. Therefore, the request to vote in favour of the return to the consideration of these bills and to recalculate them: which bills are proposed for inclusion in the agenda. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u9	Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u10	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs. The individual rhetoric of individual politicians, I don't want to call them names, reminds me of some political blackmail in matters of lower fuel prices. I think that this should be done by the government and this is the result of today's vote on the last day of this very position of government -- unaccounted for and unprofessional. Adam Ivanovich, you've already asked the question: both the side and the back, and the front, it doesn't go through. Let's move on to the agenda and I ask you to put the bill 2152 on the system of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u11	On what basis, please tell us whether to put it in the back or in the front. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs. Registration number 4121. Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. First Deputy Justice Minister Suprun Vasil Fedorovich will report. From the Teryochina Committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. The bill was drafted on the initiative of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine to improve legislation that regulates the issue of payment of government duties from applications of a property nature submitted to the courts, including in foreign currency. The bill proposes: First. To remove what is currently in force in the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On Hold of Customs" is an economically unjustified and unjustifiable limitation of the amount of government duty on the invitation applications submitted to the courts of a household, with a hundred non-taxable minimum of citizens' income, i.e. a thousand 700 dollars for today. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the rate of government duty on farm disputes from one percent to two percent of the cost of lawsuits. As a result of the imposition of the above-mentioned restriction, which took place in 2000, there was a significant reduction in the revenue flow to the State budget from the payment of government duties, although the number of cases dealt with in the courts during this period, compared to 1999-2003, only increased by one and a half times in December 2003 to 1999, a decrease of four times in Russian roubles - 10 times in United States dollars - about 25 times. It's different. These changes should contribute to increasing contractual discipline among the operators and should in no way affect article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the existing scope of rights and freedoms will not be limited in the adoption of new laws of Ukraine, since the said restriction does not apply to the rights and freedoms of citizens, but applies only to host entities that apply for late applications to the courts. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u13	Thank you. Please have a seat. From the Zushko Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Chush, the Socialist faction. I am speaking on behalf of our committee and I want to tell you that a single rate has been adopted so far. Today, if we think we're taking down the upper limit, it turns out that when we go to court, let's say we call a person for 10,000, a judge can take 1 percent off him today, we have to take the law, and so we take the top one down, that is, the court will determine what kind of duty he will take. In fact, this law is meant to make it fiscal, but the duty of the State is not fiscal, it is not a tax, first. And the second law introduces a de facto property licence for different citizens. We violate this law, we violate the Constitution of Ukraine and introduce unequal conditions for the same group of people, for example, who apply to the courts. Therefore, our committee has categorically opposed the adoption of this committee, well, this bill and has proposed that it be rejected. I therefore ask you to support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Banking, not to amend the law and to reject the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u15	Yes. Thank you. The report. We heard a report. Do you want to talk about it? Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u16	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I would like to thank my colleague Tsushka for the courage with which they reject government proposals, which are absolutely absurd, which are violations of the requirements of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and I would like to remind you that when new laws are adopted, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. I also absolutely share the idea that this law will increase the limitations of people's ability to go to court. I'm going to remind you that all of this is motivated by the fact that the judicial system has no money. Yes, she really doesn't, but when you and I know the truth about what's going on in the judicial system. And you might have to find out. Because our citizens know, and today we want to double their capacity on charges. If that's the case, unless you can pay 2 million 850,000 dollars for one apartment for one judge, which is then completely on the hook in power. That's what I call it until I call this judge's last name. And it's a unique case. Two million 800,000, I repeat, which state will allow it, which state today the United States will not pay the judge half a million dollars just for the apartment. The United States won't allow it. And the hungry, the boss of Ukraine allows it. And that's where you take the money? Is that what you need to get money from people to get two million 800? How can you not be ashamed to introduce such laws? When you think about people in government, not just how to eat them. You've introduced information services, before only in the domestic courts, now completely around. Now the person says I'm right, but I don't have the money to judge, because I have to give it around. What are you doing? One percent is replaced by two, immediately by two. Are you canceling the state-of-the-art ceiling? That is why I strongly oppose this bill and ask for this bill not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u17	Please, who else insists on signing up? Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u18	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, there's already a tendency that the Cabinet of Ministers has made, that's all wrong. It really, really doesn't fit in either within the framework of the Constitution or within the framework of existing legislation. And the law that we're considering is also in conflict with a whole range of laws and increasing the burden on our citizens. First of all, there is an increase in the rate of duty on external property claims from one to two percent. The other one. Cancels the ceiling on the amount of government duty on the late declaration of property. At present, the maximum amount of government duty on applications is 1,700 dollars. Third. It will introduce a three percent government rate of duty on foreign exchange claims. The passing of the bill will result in a reduction in court appeals, especially for small businesses. Because large amounts of government duty are a heavy burden for such subjects of entrepreneurial activity. In addition to the desire to increase the income portion of the budget, the authors did not provide any additional arguments regarding the increase in the rate of government duty from the late application of property. It should be recalled that according to article 124 of the Constitution, the jurisdiction of judges is the exercise of justice designed to protect the rights and legitimate interests of the individual. The right to legal protection is guaranteed by article 55 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I strongly suggest that the bill be rejected. And once again, I would like to ask the deputies to go back to reviewing the bills that make changes to the taxation of oil, gasoline and diesel. We have no right to go on vacation with you without solving this problem without lowering the price of oil products. But today, when the soybeans begin in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, draft laws must be judged according to their purposes as well as men. I tried to find out what the drafters were up to when they prepared the bill. They're trying to solve two problems. First. Increase budget revenues and, secondly, strengthen the discipline of those who file lawsuits and increase the number of judgements so as not to bring the case to trial, but also to remove the issue at the stage of court decisions. Well, intentions are kind of noble, but I still have some doubts about the increase in budget revenues. It's hardly the way that people can take more time to solve their court cases and increase their income on this basis. People don't usually turn out to be very rich. And even if they're a little bit rich, that's not quite right either. And the second question is also questionable -- whether it's worth deciding in court, whether it's worth the court's decision, because maybe it'll be more right. So here's a question. Nevertheless, I think that the only rate of duty is a more correct solution, and there's no serious reason to make the duty fiscal, because the nature of the duty is different, and to enter the property price. There's got to be equal terms here. Uneven conditions will result in negative consequences. So I think we have reason to doubt the purpose of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u21	Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, each stick at two ends, each has two sides. And it seems to me that in this discussion of this bill, which has been tabled in the session room, not everything is, and is not, entirely, determined so that we can make a balanced decision. What do I mean? There is one colleague who claims that this would be a violation of article 22 of the Constitution, and this would violate the rights of a small Ukrainian who applies to a court in which there is no money to defend his right. There's another colleague who says that, on the contrary, they're more addressing these issues as wealthy people, and it's very fair if we agree to move from a fixed rate to a fiscal one, even two percent. And if rich people pay more money, it will be better for the budget that suffers from a lack of income. But our decision must have to do with providing us with proper information as to how much and what things were involved. And without such proper information, we cannot, in my opinion, make a balanced decision, for at this time we do not know who this law will work on, or on the little Ukrainian that we want to protect, or on the contrary, it will improve the conditions for dealing with matters involving rich people. So it seems to me that today we would have done the right thing with you if we had agreed to the committee's proposal to reject this bill, and at the same time made a condition, made a request to the government and to the Supreme Court of Agriculture to provide us with proper statistical information on the cases that concern this particular case. And under such conditions, we could then make a more balanced decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u23	Thank you. On the basis of the vote, the Head of State and Terjehochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u24	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Adam Ivanovich, you have heard that the majority of the deputies were not talking about a bribe, they were talking about a problem of access to court. And then I'm wondering why this bill wasn't put on the Committee of Legal Policy, which actually has an object in its portfolio, such as ensuring legal and physical access to the court, and it goes to all the bills from this point of view, not a purely fiscal point of view. Yes, there's a fiscal moment here, but the main point for deputies is how to ensure secure and free access to the court if possible. Therefore, I would like to see the bill to be sent to the Committee of Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u25	Please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! Two years ago, when the rate of duty stood at five percent, there were numerous appeals by citizens or entrepreneurs who could not pay the rate before the decision, at first, I apologize for the court’s investigation. So our committee has indeed decided that double the rate of duty and introduction, the withdrawal of this ceiling is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The court must be free and open to any citizen or company in our country. And the last. I remind you that the government's tax is not a fiscal instrument, it's a way to offset the cost of the state. That's why all these proposals are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u27	Question completed. Let's be clear. I'm voting on the adoption of the first reading on the basis of the Act amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. Registration number 4121. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:33:14]] For-64 The bill was rejected. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the insurance of personnel of nuclear installations is being complied with. Registration number 3042. First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy, Tatarinov Anatoly Ariefiyovich, will report to Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. You are considering bills to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the insurance of nuclear installations, which provide for amendments to Ukraine's laws on insurance and on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security. The bill is designed to avoid double insurance for nuclear personnel as well as government inspectors for nuclear and radiation security, directly at nuclear facilities, against the risk of ionizing radiation exposure to their health. The personnel of the nuclear facilities were provided with the laws of Ukraine on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security and on insurance, which were adopted back in 1995 and 1996. However, due to the failure to implement them, the standards of these laws did not work. In 1999, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Disease, which caused the loss of employment. This Law takes into account the standards and regulations of the previous laws referred to above. Today, compulsory insurance is provided for the above - mentioned categories of workers from the industrial accident. This law also defines circumstances and insurance cases, imposes insurance tariffs on compulsory social insurance, and approves the form of insurance certificates. The personnel of nuclear facilities are insured by, by the way, all the employees of our state, the State Social Insurance Fund. Bill 3042, which is currently under consideration, proposes to exclude paragraph 21 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act and to exclude the first part of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. The bill is supported by the Committees on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security and on Social Policy and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to avoid double insurance, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u29	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues! Maybe we should vote? Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption as a basis of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the insurance of nuclear personnel]] [[3042 registration]] Please vote. [[16:36:44]] For 335 Copy that. Maybe we'll take it as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the insurance of nuclear personnel]] [[Registration number 3042]] Please vote. [[16:37:17]] For 367 The law is passed. There is a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine. [[on entrepreneurship in the manufacture of weapons and military equipment]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. First Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Valerius Petrovich Kazakov will report, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The proposed bill of Ukraine amends the relevant articles of the three existing laws. First of all, article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship, article 1 of the Act on State Defence Orders, and article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. The purpose of these changes is to remove restrictions on the form of ownership of enterprises that do not have the right to carry out state defence orders. According to the State Defense Order Act, it's only a state-owned enterprise today. Today life has gone on and 56 state-owned enterprises are participating in state defence procurement, but there are 23 companies with them that have already changed their form of ownership -- it's a mixed form of ownership or private enterprises. At the same time, to ensure State control of this important activity, it is proposed to refer it to a list of activities that cannot be carried out without a license. For this purpose, it is proposed to introduce "On License" into the Ukrainian Law. These changes also enable the licensing of military and nonmilitary weapons to be restricted. The report is complete. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the committee we have Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u32	Vitaly Majko, faction of the NDP and the Industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 17 March 2004, reviewed and supported the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on entrepreneurship in the design and manufacture of weapons of military technology, etc. We believe that this law should be supported, and I suggest that it be taken as a basis. The Supreme Council’s apparatus also looked into the matter and supported the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u33	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, can we take this as a basis? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u34	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, it would be very good if we could hear now the findings of the Committee on National Security and Defence. To his honor, I want to say that they have taken a thorough approach to the study of the matter. The question is asked by the government, as always, too raw. This is not supposed to happen, we don't have an arms and military technology bill at all, we don't have to make any changes to the Ukrainian Defence Order Act. And we need to add what the National Security and Defence Committee is proposing in the first reading, which is to quote: development, manufacture, renovation, modernization, internal market implementation and the disposal of military weapons and technical equipment that will ensure its use, military supplies, is carried out by enterprises of all kinds of economic activity, as well as mergers of enterprises in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, from the place of Puzakov. Prepare Solomon from the moon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u36	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština How can manufacturers who produce weapons exercise this control, no one with full confidence to say that it will be properly controlled, guarantee that it will not be possible. The argument that the permit for the production of arms and ammunition will be governed by a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the issuance of licences with subsequent control by the licensing authority will also not guarantee national security in this area. Or the argument that restrictions on the manufacture of military weapons and ammunition were justified at a time when state-owned enterprises constituted a major mass of business entities rather than state-owned ones were just beginning to appear could not be sufficient. Ukraine has not long since had relations with the world community regarding the ring scandal. So we need to think about how to adopt this law. Maybe we should work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u37	Please, Solomon and the Dry One.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u38	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have been amending Article 9 in the past five weeks to license certain types of business. We're in favour of each other. And I think that's how we vote in this case. But I want to remind you again. Like all the Communist factions excluded from the hall, Bill 3366 failed to amend this law, which required licensing for the mining of useful fossils. To date, mining is restricted to uranium ore crops. Everything else is going, my God, I don't even know how to tell you how it's going. That's why I'm declaring again. Let us correct this mistake and do it with dignity, that is, license the production of useful fossils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u39	Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u40	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, "Trudova Ukraine". I am addressing those Ukrainian national deputies who represent the regions of Ukraine, where there are companies in the military industrial complex. You know the problems these businesses face, so this bill should be supported at least on the first reading. The point is that this bill solves two tasks. First. There is an attempt to put the basic order in the market for the development and sale of weapons. And secondly, the monopolization of some state-owned enterprises in the manufacturing, modernization, implementation and disposal of weapons is declining. Dear colleagues, I remind you what this is about. License is to be subject, you agree, to be subject to manufacturing and repairing nonmilitary firearms. He certainly does. Trade in special means of active defense. He certainly does. So the conclusion is that this bill should be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u41	The discussion is over. Let's be clear. I am voting for adoption on the basis of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on entrepreneurship in the manufacture of arms and military equipment. Registration number 4054. Please vote. [[16:46:08]] For 312 Should we vote in general? There's a denial. There is a bill to amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on responsibility for computer-related crime. There are two bills, registration number 3039 and 3039-1. Yeah, who? Cornea? Please, because there's another reporter written here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The need to develop this draft Law is aimed at improving national criminal law and bringing it into line with European standards and international legislation in the fight against computer crime, raising the level of legal protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, society and the state. The bill provides for changes and additions to the current Criminal Code, namely: firstly, it reinforces sanctions for illegal activities in the field of the use of electronic computing machines, systems and computer networks and the determination of the extent of material damage. These are articles 361, 362, 363 of the Codex. The other one. This is the introduction into the code of two new articles: 361 with "1" and 361 with "2" markings, which provide for criminal responsibility for the creation of software or technology for the illicit penetration of computers, their systems, computer networks, illicit distribution or the sale of electronic databases containing personal data. And third, this is the introduction of criminal responsibility for intercepting, copying computer information. The bill also provides for appropriate amendments to article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. It's about crimes. I don't think anyone needs to be convinced how relevant this law is. There is also the law of the MP, 3039-1. It should be noted that it was prepared a little later than the government. It, the new edition of this law, which was introduced on March 12, this year, develops ideas of a government bill and foresees more changes and additions to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code, including articles that were there. which have been applied in practice since September 2001. Taking into account what has been said, please support these bills and further develop them in order to make one bill, which will then be adopted in a second reading as a whole. Thank you for your attention. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u43	Thank you, sit down, please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Who's from the committee? You don't? Is there a need to discuss? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u44	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You know, changes are being made immediately, and it's proposed to amend the eight articles of the Criminal Code. They're serious enough to treat them lightly, not to listen to the committee's opinion, in my opinion, today. And this bill was supposed to be removed, of course. But given that the government bill is still being sent in time when Smyrnov was the minister who was authorized to present the bill, I will briefly stop at it. Thus, it is suggested that criminal responsibility for crime be increased in the area of electronic computing machines, computers, computer networks, and electronic databases. And in principle, this bill could be supported if everything that was in the international conventions on cybercrime, which was signed as early as 22 November 2001, had not been established to compete with the actual Criminal Code with what is currently being proposed. For example, in the case of the establishment and inclusion of article 361 with a two - badge, if we establish criminal responsibility for the illegal sale of databases with information about a person, this article will compete with the active article of Criminal Code 182, which provides for the responsibility for the illicit dissemination of information about a person. Thus, it is a variety of dissemination of such information, only information for money. Therefore, after studying both bills, I fully agree with the conclusion reached by the first deputy minister of Kornienko that the bill of national deputies: Moses, Bandurka, Krutza and Tkacha -- is later introduced, made more perfectly and more acceptable. The government's bill generally has the conclusion of a science-expert administration as such that it is sent for re-reading work. As far as the bill of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies is concerned, it has some flaws, too, quite serious. But it can be accepted in the first reading to halt unauthorized access to the computer system and networks, including the Supreme Council, the illegal possession of computer information, the illegal treatment of harmful computer programs, and the destruction of this technology, and the illegal distribution or sale of electronic databases. I ask you to accept it in the first reading with mandatory hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u45	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u46	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I want to draw your attention to one such detail and it touches on the use of complex computer networks as well as electronic databases. If you accidentally or accidentally find out that some information has come from your computer and you wonder how this is happening. There's nothing strange about that. There are all kinds of ways, if any, to defile a person, even a national MP, but to punish such persons and, if possible, to take them into account and present them with appropriate charges, it is impossible to punish them. That's the first one. The other one. Many of you, including mine, regularly have offers to sell electronic databases. For example, I'm going to announce the databases offered by the neighbouring state. Moscow City Telephone Network Database: Surname, Name, Parent, Address, Phone, and Area. Database: Pass of Moscow and Moscow. People good, you and I have already been very well educated in the President's previous election, as certain teams in sports halls, clubs, exchange databases, left and right hand made up lists of voters who seem to support a particular MP. In this regard, we, as legislators with you, had to make a proposal to the Presidential Elections Act, which was not only signed, but also made a condition for a financial pledge. Although it's not entirely true from a democratic point of view. But we were disarmed with you against those swindlers who will use these databases in the 1999 elections and in the elections of those who will take place. And finally. On many occasions, we have heard that our voters were indignant when they were addressed to them, addresses, surnames, names, by their father, very respectable people corresponded to them, not knowing where they got these addresses. The law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u47	Let's be clear. Please, Cherniak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u48	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Worldwide, including in Ukraine, there is an increase in crime in the use of computer technology. Of course, there is a need to respond adequately to this phenomenon and, above all, legislatively. Criminal responsibility for computer crime needs to be increased. I don't think anyone has that objection. But in doing so, we need to be clear about what constitutes a crime. There's this attempt to figure it out. above all unauthorized access to the computer network, illegal distribution, of course, destruction of technology, and so on. Moreover, the measure of punishment should be clearly defined. And the main thing is the irreparability of punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u49	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Free nigger! Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Change in Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Responsibility for Computer Crime, registration number 3039, government. [[16:58:19]] For 247 Copy that. What are you gonna do? The train's already gone. The train left, Yuri Anatolyovich. There's a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization, a new edition, registration number 4226. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs of Euro-Integration, Vashchevska Valeriy Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You're looking at a draft Ukrainian law amending "On Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization" in a new edition. The last changes to this law were made in 1999. The bill is designed to further improve the state’s mobilisation system, taking into account modern requirements and approaches to strengthening its security. The draft contains a requirement of the Ukrainian Defence Act of the Budget Code and other legal acts. In the new edition of the project are defined and refined basic concepts: mobilisation preparation, mobilisation management system, mobilization plan, mobilization tasks, annual preparation programmes, basic mobilization plan indicators, as well as the stated principle and content of mobilization and mobilization, recruitment, preservation and redistribution of labour resources. The need for this is triggered by new approaches to the development of a mobilisation plan to address the strategic implementation plan of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, changes in the civil protection system, the need for a single understanding of the issue of mobilization training and mobilization by all government authorities, businesses, institutions, organizations and citizens. The draft law is supplemented by articles on the definition of the functions of the Ministry of Justice of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as on the preparation of the courts of the general jurisdiction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Supplements to the Criminal Code of Ukraine are envisaged to establish responsibility for violating the requirements of the Ukrainian Mobilization and Mobilization Act. All these changes are aimed at expressing the issues of the organization's interaction with the legislative, executive judiciary on the issue of mobilization and mobilization. The project was carried out with the authorities of the State, approved at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence, and on Construction, Transport, and Communications. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus also supported this bill without notice. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u51	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm in the middle of a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u52	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I just don't understand what economics and European integration have to do with mobilization. We have before us the Deputy Minister, the First Deputy Minister on this matter. Well, what can our respective ministries no longer be trusted with laws on mobilization issues?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u53	There's something else going on here. Mobilization. You're just saying, "under the gun," that's all. And in order to put a gun on it, you have to mobilize the economy, the state reserve, the reserves, and so on and so forth. The Ministry of Economics has added European integration to them. But this is a question of a former State Committee on Plan. And now instead of the State Plan, there's the Ministry of Economics. Shall we be clear? Vote. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u54	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Adam Ivanovich, the previous bill was passed to me. Kornienko says the MP is better. Everyone's talking MPs, put them on. He's taking his picture because he's no longer fit, and you say the train's gone. Is that possible? What are we doing? What do we accept? We don't bake bread, do we? Now, about this bill. Dear people's deputies, the very right observation told you that the wrong committee would report, that's the first. Secondly, our powers of the Supreme Council, constitutional, article 85, paragraph 31, take away the government, you sit silent. You give up, you change the Constitution. How? Now we're left with only in article 11 to determine mobilization and mobilisation preparation. And in fact, in the Constitution, we have a mandate to approve within two days of the President's request for general or partial mobilization. That's probably two big differences. That's why the Defense Committee was going around, because maybe George Kruczkov saw it and said you couldn't do it. And you take it and you do it now. Next. Absolutely right, they said today, they noticed MPs, where they could say that this bill is in violation of the Ukrainian Defence Act. Article 10 of the Law on the Protection of the Reliance of the Planning of the Mobilization of Economics and the Control of the Preparation of Enterprises, Institutions, and Organizations of All Forms of Ownership for the Mobilization of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. What are you doing, reverend? You want to make Ukraine completely unprepared in the mobilisation plan? She's not ready for battle anymore. I didn't get any planes, no tanks! Ten tanks were sent to the Christian parade two years ago and returned to the Malishev factory because they were not counted. Shame on the whole world! But it is a disgrace! And yet you want to completely disarm the state in the mobilization plan? Then who on behalf of the government would claim it? Who take political responsibility for disarming the state? I just don't understand what's going on in the state today, and what are they giving us? Therefore, at least read the conclusions of the expert office. Let's give the right laws to the National Security and Defence Committee that you're surrounding. Not to be overlooked is the local self - government of Ukraine, for the Law on Local Self - Rule clearly states that it is up to the executive authorities of rural areas. Village, city councils are organized and involved in activities related to the mobilization of civilian defenses in the area concerned. I'm against this law and I urge you not to go to this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u55	Yeah, it's from the miner's microphone. And Domansky later.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u56	Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, I'd like to ask you not to violate the procedure, but it's a matter of a very important law. I'd like to hear the committee's arguments, reported Domansky. Again, we can crack a lot of wood in this haste. I want to remind you of yesterday's example when we, by our decision under Bill 4017, passed from criminal and administrative responsibility a very important thing. Once again, I read both the bill itself and the findings of science and science. And once again, it's not the worst shot. In the Minister's report, I didn't hear any objections, the findings of the science department. I'm afraid that in the mode we're in right now, we're breaking too many wood. And such laws can't be enacted by a reduced procedure. I suggest we re-read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u57	Yes, thank you. We will not violate the procedure. From the committee of Domansky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! There have been tremendous changes in our society, such as business ownership and so on and so forth. This has led to the need to amend the law. This law provides a legal basis for mobilization and mobilization training, and it regulates the vital issues of the life of our State. What kind of questions? The activities of all authorities in the area of mobilization and mobilization training specify the responsibilities and functions of enterprises, the organization of institutions and authorities, and it regulates the relationship between the contracting authorities and the providers of mobilization training issues. There are even some funny issues in this bill. Here it is proposed, in this bill, that the President, the Commander-in-Chief, postpone the recruitment of military personnel if there is mobilization. This paragraph must, of course, be removed, he, the Chief Commander, has become President and is a military officer, and there should be no postponement. But in general, this bill needs organizations and businesses, our State. The Committee considered it and decided unanimously to make and ask the deputies to support it on first reading, and on second reading, we will think about what to do. Amend - there is a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u59	Yeah, we'll figure it out. I'm betting on a first reading vote based on the law amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[17:09:12]] For 326 Copy that. Maybe we'll take it as a whole? There is a bill to amend article 66 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on expertise]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Bill 3369 registration number. Reported to the Czernowetsk People's Deputy. It is he who always insists on the Conciliation Council to let his questions be heard, not at meetings. From the Onitchuk Committee, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Microphone, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u60	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Leonid Mikhailovich Černovetský submitted a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council to amend article 66 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. In particular, it is provided for by the law. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Leonid Chernewicki has introduced a bill to the Parliament to amend the Act on Executive Conduct. In particular, it's about article 66th of this law, where it's meant to be complemented, in particular, by the content that if the real estate at the price, that is, the price that is displayed in the case of the enforcement, of the enforcement of the property that is applied for for the execution of the exercise, is not realized at the first sale, then at the re-trade, the initial price at which it is implemented is reduced by not more than 30 percent. The committee, the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Policy, considered the bill and concluded that it would be possible to take into account the amendment to the Law as one that would contribute to a more accurate assessment of the realisation of property with a view to its subsequent repayment of the debt obligations that arise in the course of asset collection. Unfortunately, there was no drafter who had to inform him in more detail. But the proposal is considered to be such that it can be considered in the first reading. I pay attention to that, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u61	Thank you. Sit down, Mikolo Vasilovich. Of those who have signed up and want to participate in the discussion, Carmazin. Vote? Please, it's Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. He poses no danger to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u63	I'm voting on the adoption on the basis of the Amendment Act to Article 66 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Implementation of Expertise. Registration number 3369. [[17:13:37]] For 305 Can we take the whole thing as a law? I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law. Is there a denial? It's coming off. Dear colleagues, we have one of the great debts -- the draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement for the project "Ukraine - Development through the Internet" between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0165. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u64	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to ask you. On the last virtual day of the Supreme Council's plenary work, let's not violate the Rules now move on, 17.15, to the last issue that has been brought into the order of our day. That's the first one. And second of all. Why is this question raised at what point in the agenda of the meetings of the Supreme Council? It was not supported by the Supreme Council on many occasions. So this bill has already been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! The rightful head of the Regulatory Committee is absolutely right, but I have a statement of nine factions, which make up more than 226 votes in total, and we will proceed in accordance with the Rules. Who's to now consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement? [[project "Ukraine - Development through the Internet"]] [[Registration number 0165]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:16:24]] For 327 The question is being considered. Calm down, sit down, please. You don't vote with your feet, you vote with your hands. Why did they stand up? For reasons, please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u66	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We are now witnessing with you how in the brotherly embraces of the oligarchs on the one hand and on the other hand, in the agreement of Uncle Sam, we voted in favour of a bill that amazingly limits the interests of the state of Ukraine. We should thank them for opening up their real predatory, pro-American face.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u67	Yes. Dear colleagues! I, indeed, spoke here to Matthew and said that we have not once considered this matter with you. So I don't think there's any need to listen to the report. Those who signed up insist on the performance? This is Carmazin and School. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u68	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'm in solidarity with both of the previous ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u69	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u70	Introducing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u71	I ask the weight of not hearing Karmazin's thoughts. Please don't talk to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u72	Dear National Deputies! The previous speakers are absolutely right. Adam Ivanovich, you broke the Rules, now, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you know that even nine factions can't do it. From this grant agreement, which is then offered to pay to our children, you know that most of them go to consultants. And we now clearly understand that this money will go for what? They will not go to computerize Ukraine, and we could do a lot of this at this cost. The services of consultants are predictable, look at the size.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u73	Thank you. Yes, please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u74	Thank you. Well, first of all, in this situation, I want to say that any grant that they would not have taken from is invested from any country in a way that they wouldn't fool themselves. We need to have our own resources and develop our own economy. But when that is possible, you can use it very clearly, because the percentage is small, the Internet needs to be developed, because really, the Internet is not a luxury, it's an information exchange tool. So Ukrainians should finally have this opportunity instead of getting these crumbs, because neither in the district center nor in any practical district center in Ukraine is there just no intranet provider. And this is the information services market to develop a value. And any grant, of course, may or may not be convenient. That's why we need backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u75	Thank you. Question completed. All those who signed up spoke. I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law on the ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[17:20:18]] For 324 The deal's ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government is being reviewed. [[on categories of rural, rural and urban positions]] Reporter: Šurma Igor Mihajlovich, please. Get ready from the Ivanch Committee. Orzhachowski will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u77	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, today we will talk about the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government. The question has long been in the order of the day, and it refers to a large number of people, heads of rural, rural, urban, and circuit cities. Today, there are more than 11,000 in Ukraine. On the shoulders, it is known that the main burden of working in a complex direction is the immediate solution to the problems of the electorate. The Local Authority Service Act, adopted by the Supreme Council on June 7, 2001, sets out the legal, organizational, material and social conditions for the exercise by Ukrainian citizens of the right to service in local self-government bodies, as well as the general principles governing the activities of officials of the designated authorities and their legal status. The fifth category of local government official no doubt does not match both the significance of the work of rural, rural, urban, district - capital cities and the degree of responsibility that these people bear. The bill specifically proposes that the situation be corrected and that the positions of the city’s heads, the cities of district importance, and the positions of the village and village heads be assigned to the fourth category of local self - government authorities. What will give effect to the adoption of the law? The adoption of this simple law by the Supreme Council serves to establish justice in the queen of local self - rule. I'm going to say it again. Increasing the status of city heads, cities of district importance, as well as rural and rural heads will correspond to the importance and level of responsibility of the work required of them. As the author of the bill, I am grateful to the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council for the right suggestion that the law should be valid from the beginning of the financial year. It's from January 1st, 2005. Because an increase in wages will require an increase in the size of the Local Self-Government Labour Fund, the source of which is the local budget, in line with the provisions of part four of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. According to previous estimates, the monthly expenditure of local budgets will increase by more than 500,000 dollars. But these costs are certainly justified. I would like to remind you that according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 2288 1999, the official salary of the head of the village council, where there are up to three thousand citizens, is 130 dollars, up to fifteen thousand to 170 dollars. So I think the adoption of this law will be a complete satisfaction to those people who work in villages and villages. Given the relevance of the issue, its urgency, I ask the Supreme Council to support local self-government and adopt Bill 3713. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u78	Thank you. Orzhachovsky Anatoly, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Communist Party, Hersonian. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government discussed the draft law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, the authors of the National Deputys of the Ukraine of Gorbatov and Shurma. [[on the category of rural, rural and urban positions]] The bill proposes the positions of rural, rural, and urban heads, which are of district importance for the fourth category of classification of local self - government bodies. The existing legislation refers to the V category of local self - government authorities. We believe that the adoption of the law will have a positive effect, giving confidence in the actions of the heads of appropriate counsel. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council also supports the bill. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government recommends that the Supreme Council, on first reading, adopt a bill and send letters to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee on Budget Questions regarding the deadline for the introduction of the bill. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they signed up for a discussion of Carmazin and Solomonin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u81	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, there are 11,000 in the country today. 200 officials, whose fate is being considered today. 11,000. 200! It's intelligence, it's people who have to take care of those people who live in those populated areas. Look, what's the trend? The trend is that both cities in the Kyiv region and in other areas do not want to go to the heads of rural councils or even the mayors of small towns of district subordination. No one wants it because of material security. So I think the bill needs to be adopted, it's real, it's justified, it can be accepted in both the first and second readings. Another question is, we have to clearly predict the impact of how many failures there will be in the local budgets, because they are funding them today. If the difference between category four and category five is 50, the difference is between 500 and 600,000. By the way, the authors could write about what the bill needs, and frankly, serious expenses. We were given no justification. Unfortunately, article 6.2 was given no justification and no budget committee. 7 The Rules require such justification, and the budget code requires such conclusions when the law is enacted from the time it becomes effective. There is no such conclusion. I don't know if they'll be able to pull local budgets today, but it's a necessary law. What is the solution? The solution is to have the authors agree, either now or immediately, that this law should be passed on January 1, 2005, and then we. The storm shows that they agree. And it's going to be legally correct, it's going to be balanced, it's going to be put into these budgets. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, who agrees to introduce from January 1st how the author changes, i.e., the conceptual approach, and then the law can be voted for in both the first reading and the second reading. Believe me, what are the people we're going to do? We'll take care of these people right now -- heads of rural, local councils, city heads -- and that's exactly what these people are going to do, and they're going to take better care of Ukrainian citizens. So I propose to adopt the law immediately in two readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u82	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, our faction will vote in favour of this bill. And not only in the light of the fact that at that pitiful salary -- 130-150 dollars -- from January 1st 2005, we're going to add another 50-60 dollars to our statement. My colleague, who spoke to me, made such an interesting point that no one seemed to want to go to these positions. But I don't know any town, no village council or village council, where there's a hard fight going on when the elections go even to these councils, to these local self-government bodies. Because these positions, they not only impose great responsibilities, but they also impose some great possibilities for resolving those issues that are at the local level. So let's not shed crocodile tears, let's vote for this law, because maybe these people are a little bit better off than those millions of pensioners, veterans and disabled people who have such pensions or social benefits and compensations for their lives. I propose to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u84	From Nikolainko's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u85	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The concept of our work today of the Supreme Council is so and so is the government that we are constantly passing on more and more authority in the knowledge of the local authorities. And so this bill, which envisions supporting the heads of rural, rural councils and raising their status, is absolutely relevant. And that's why the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine calls on all the national MPs to vote in favour of this bill, realizing that it depends very much and very much on the activities of the head of the country and village council. That's why we're going to vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, it was suggested that the Law should be clarified immediately, that it would take effect on January 1, 2005, and the author agreed. To accept it as a foundation and generally as the Law. Is there no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole, as the Act, the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, specifying that this Act takes effect on 1 January 2005. Registration number 3713. Please vote. [[17:32:25]] For 407 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have one law left over from the second reading -- it's a bill on the organs of justice. Registration number 2152. Please, Sirenka's microphone on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u87	Dear colleagues. First of all, this Law is not in order today and there is no need to rush it. There are more important economic and social laws. This Law seeks to regulate matters, in the legislative order of one ministry. All other ministries are regulated in the general legal order, and for one Ministo, an entire law is drawn up. It's not normal: to take the law out of your finger and it has absolutely nothing to do with any organs of justice except the Minius of other organs of justice in the state. And there's no need to ask that question today in such a hot order. Dear colleagues! This situation occurred yesterday, for technical reasons, that bill, which was in the draft, fell out of consideration for the second reading. This may be the way to resolve this conflict, and I will put it to a vote to include it in the debate, and you will be identified by the vote. There's no objection. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the Judiciary. [[Registration number 2152]] And you will determine by vote, please. [[17:34:33]] For a hundred and The decision is not made, unfortunately. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 55, Ukraine - 3, Communists - 0, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 23, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 14, Labour Ukraine - 28, National Agricultural Party - 4, SPI - 1, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 8, Center - 1, Union - 11, NDP and PPU - 6, Postfraction - 5. [[united]] I don't think we understand what we were voting for here. Let's go back to the next session. Let's take a look at this. Don't block it, dear fellows. Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u88	Dear National Deputies! Nevertheless, I wanted to draw your attention to the Law on the organs of justice. The point is that he went through the second reading on the committee, all of the odous questions, the discussion issues were removed, and now there, apart from the question of subordination of the system of execution of sentences by the organs of justice, other issues are practically removed. And now we could, let's say, vote, draft these amendments, there's not a lot of them, and issue to the body of justice the actual mechanism of, say, doing these. responsibilities. So I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put the vote again. It's a shame that we're running out of bills that the Conciliation Council has adopted. So I'd like to go back to that question again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way, the law, the bill is necessary. I think we'll take a look at it. I can see now, there's no way we're going to see this bill, let's do it now, because there was no desire now, I see, to look at it. Well, what can I do? So let's do this in a way that we're going to continue to work on the graph, because everyone is proposing to look at the last minute drafts. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider draft Law 4062 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income for Taxpayers. But we've already passed the 5,260 law, and we've adjusted the right positions. Therefore, there is no need to consider this bill. And they all agreed to the draft law. The draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on prevention of the legalization of the laundering of proceeds by criminal means and the financing of terrorism, registered number 4190-1, report by Osik Sergey Grigorovich, is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I understand that this bill is not easy to report, which is especially important in three minutes. That I want to remind you first. Two years ago, at the end of 2002, the Supreme Council adopted these laws, situations of external, internal pressure. If you say it harshly, "stupid fool." Through my knee, but I did. They were forced because there was no other way out. I am reminding you of our recent history. What do we have now? That last year there was a summit where 40 recommendations were adopted in the new edition and 8 special recommendations on combating terrorist financing. As members of the FATF, we are obliged to implement the new wording of these recommendations into our legislation. My idea is not to do this in 2002 because we may not vote today. But I assure you by 300 percent, whoever's elected President, at the end of the year we're going to accept, but next week at the very worst, without thinking what we're voting for, because there will be no other way back. And by the way, there's a FATF summit going on right now, where we have nothing to say what we've done with the implementation of the new recommendations. Two brief words about the concept of this bill. It's built on the general concept of FatF, which is face to face. The first theory and the main one is the proliferation of primary financial monitoring subjects. It consists of the expansion of public authorities and the spread of those directly involved in financial transactions, realtors, to say the least, consultants and so on and so forth. The other one. It adds very important points related to the temporary freezing of financial transactions when there is a clear suspicion and strengthens the financial monitoring service as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Kaputsin from the committee, please. To prepare for the inadmissibility of the Montenegrins.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u92	Dear national MPs, the reporter, our colleague Osika told us the necessity that we needed. requires us to adopt this law. And this is what we need to do is we have to do the FATF recommendations, the FATF recommendations on money-laundering. He briefly reminded me of how this happened two years ago. And I really don't want us to repeat this story. But when we considered the matter on the committee, there were some very important warnings. I would like some of these warnings to be accepted by the hall. One of these warnings is that the committee recommends the introduction of this law on January 1, 2005. So take the basis, but put into effect on 1 January 2005 so that this law does not affect the electoral campaign, so that there is no abuse in its use during the second half of this year. Moreover, we believe that there are several things in this law that overly criminalize some of the actions of money launderers. For example, prenatal crime has been reduced from three years to one year. We think it's groundless, too. And we believe that this needs to be corrected when preparing for the second reading. There are also some things that are expressed in our comments, the Committee's comments, and in the observations of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Scientific Administration. We feel that these things are very right, and we too need to consider them and accept them when we prepare for the second reading. Thus, the committee’s position was to adopt this law as a basis for its entry into force on January 1, 2005. And in preparing for the second reading, take into account the comments made by the committee members and expressed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, there is a draft decree on inadmissibility. The author of the draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft law, registration number 4190-1 Leonid Chernewický. There's no Leonid Chernewsky? Then what do we put to the vote? I am voting on the non-admissibility of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on preventing the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means and on financing terrorism. Registration number 4190-1. I'd like to make a statement. It's about inadmissibility. [[17:43:23]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u94	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, thank Sergio Osiki for saying that laws have been passed through the knee. That's right. Your majority are always put through their knees and in the position of the letter "Zu," as we say in Odessa, all the time. Today, Timoshenko was put on the north, now after this, but if we're going to make legislative proposals and not report to the Committee on Legislative Security, the law-enforcement activity of the amendment to the Criminal Code, there will be no conclusion by the Committee on Legal Policy, and I'm telling you that he didn't make any conclusions about changes to the Civil Code, about changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, none of these changes were made, and none of these committees passed the bill. Believe me, these are basic bills. So what we're doing right now is not from a good life. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Code, which reduces up to one year instead of three thresholds for the severity of punishment for crimes, which has led to the illegal receipt of income in defining the notion of "social and dangerous activities", which has prevented the legalization of income. Under this condition, at the level of one year of deprivation of liberty, the number of such crimes will be reduced to crimes of a small degree of gravity, and the result of which would not be to receive any money or other property. This is, for example, part one of the 135th left in danger, part one of article 405. So what we now have in law is legally balanced. The changes proposed, say financing terrorism, are also too general. And you can't agree with the legislative strengthening of the power of today's so-called financial intelligence, because during the election campaign, it's clear where it's going to go. And even the reservation that then, after the election to apply this law, such a procrastination law would be of no benefit to anyone. I would ask you to withdraw this bill at all, as not prepared by the committees responsible for changes in procedural legislation, for legal policy. We have every reason to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u95	Thank you. Please, Solomon, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a tight political assessment of this bill. Let us draw your attention to the strengthening of the financial monitoring service. Well, I guess it's not bad at first. And from my personal point of view, it would be a good thing if it were a real OPCSS, like in Soviet times, and not the financial monitoring bodies that do the tracking functions of those who are not in power today. Then there will be others in power, and these functions of financial monitoring with the same enthusiasm will be those who work in them to benefit others who have come to this power. That's how we have the system, and that's what power is now. It's on the one side. On the other hand, it spreads around those who will be on the hook of that authority that is or will come for a change. Whether it will benefit the nation itself, which has no bearing on such activities as legalization, money laundering, and, more importantly, criminal financing, and even worse. It seems that this law has no bearing on a small Ukrainian. So let's be honest with you and say that this law will work only and only on those who are now in power temporarily, and it will be used against those who are not in power, but will try to take this power. This might be the conclusion: let them be among themselves, like the Turks in a bank, like scorpions, quarreling and eating each other, but it would not be to the face of our nation, a state that represents the Ukrainian people, not this self-loving national elite that has taken on such an idea that it is the people. I'm aware of the head of a community organization that's been in one of those structures that's been doing financial monitoring for five years -- and nothing, the authorities have been sucking on it, and it's always doing what it wants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u97	Please, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u98	Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Perhaps, first of all, we need to ask a few questions: why does the title say so softly: "prevention of laundering", not the fight against laundering, and corruption, and terrorism. The other one. Is it not enough in the Criminal Code to fight this scourge today? That's enough. Whether this fight is going properly today from our authorities. Of course not. Are you saying there is no terrorism today? Yes. Persecution, murder, head cuts off, arson, cars burning, houses, apartments -- isn't that terrorism? It's terrorism organized by the authorities. And who's fighting him? Opposition. And the opposition is being fought by the authorities. So why is this Law, when no one is fighting these phenomena today, and when we see and tell, and talk in this room, how much money has been stolen and washed away because of a single tax, a tax on added value. Is there one thing in our Henprosecutor's office that's off the hook? No, it's not. We tell stories and foreign newspapers write, facts point to witnesses being destroyed in their institutions. Is there a power struggle? None. Because of this Law, designed only to show before the world that we are meant to fight this phenomenon of evil such as laundering and terrorism. It's an osmosis. As a result, such a law is unnecessary and requires a natural, specific law that is felt not only abroad to justify, but people have felt that such a struggle in the state is and will be violent. I think that the time will come when all those who stole, washed, hid, bought billions, would be justified: where he took them, where he stole them, where he hid them, and would be responsible under the Criminal Code, not under such an osmosis law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u99	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the prevention of legalization, the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the financing of terrorism. [[Registration number 4190-1]] [[17:53:40]] For 199 The decision is not taken. A draft Act on the write-off of debts to the Pension Fund of Ukraine is under consideration and fines are under consideration for compulsory payments to enterprises that have a share of state property and are in the process of restructuring. [[by abbreviated procedure]] [[Registration number 44.]] Please, Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This bill was prepared to implement the decision of our Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship on May 27th last year in the city of Raven, with the agenda of "The Troubles of Restructuring in the Open Shareholder Society". The adoption of the Act will be one of the main factors in the financial recovery of open public equity companies with at least 25 per cent of the assets in the restructuring process, increase their investment attractiveness and ensure that the State sells the shares of these companies, which will provide additional revenue to the country’s budget. This is about the debt accrued under the state’s total ownership of manufacturing activities, which was on December 31, 1995. [[I'm paying attention to all the national MPs.]] Paradox: Businesses that are bankrupt do not pay anything, the state pays for them, and those enterprises that have found the strength to regenerate have restructured the potential burden that this potential investor faces. Members of the committee, considering that the adoption of the bill would allow for the release of funds to pay off arrears. And that's an increase in the pension fund and income tax receipts that support this bill, and they're offering to accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u101	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. It's from the Terjehohin Committee. Do you have a wish? Yes. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u102	Socialist faction, Tsusko, Committee on Financial and Banking. Dear colleagues, our committee has considered this issue. So he's proposing to reject the bill. The argument is that we should not give any benefits to any enterprise should be all in equal conditions. That's what I've given you, the committee's opinion, to determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u103	Yes. Are there those who have signed up willing to share in the discussion? Yeah, I'm going to take a look at those who signed up. Yes, Carmazin would. Yes, please, Carmazine. Mironenko, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u104	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! We are invited, in this case, to adopt a bill that provides for the cancellation of debts to the Pension Fund and raises a number of issues. First, that we pensioners are so rich, the Pension Fund does not require much income. We know pensioners are poor. The pension fund is worthless. Second question. In what way were these enterprises selected? It is understandable that there is a certain degree of lobbying of interests, not even of the labour community, but of those who have accumulated a significant number of shares and are now trying to get rid of unnecessary problems by earning huge profits and trying to privatize these enterprises further. This is at least unfair to both pensioners and working groups of Ukraine and the State as a whole. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine would welcome the adoption of such a bill, which would imply the cancellation of the debt, of the hopeless debt of those enterprises where there is a government package of shares that should be for the benefit of the entire people, the entire economy is nationalized. In this case, enterprises would work for the economy, labour groups would be guaranteed from dismissal, and unemployment would not increase. Do we have any bad practices? Privatize, then reduce the number of workers, and poverty increases. All of the enterprises are privatized, new owners will be drained by huge incomes, along with bankers who are destroying private bankers who are destroying businesses. And then you can, to some extent, put this enterprise on a stand-alone basis or sell it by leading to bankruptcy, by selling it, by getting huge profits again in the form of selling scrap metal abroad. Dear compatriots, it is time for us to conclude that there is a need to nationalize strategic industries that are important for the economy as a whole in order to have access to State budget to reduce unemployment, increase employment. At that time, we will have access to the State budget and an increase in the standard of living of the entire people. Now we see only this bill reflects the interests of all the same major oligarch capitalists and does not matter what factions they are in. Whether it's in our Ukraine, or whether it's in the so-called centrist factions, which are actually all the same factions of capitalism. I propose to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u105	Please, Carmazin, Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u106	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say that I am not one of those who own these factories. But I want to clarify what factories this bill refers to. The law is very small and very short, only of the two articles, and in the second when it takes effect. I mean, from one article, a bill. And it says here that it only relates to enterprises that have a government share of property of at least 25 percent. That's the question. So it's only those businesses that pay off the debt. And that, frankly, bothers me. On the one hand, that's good. But 75 percent to whom? The ones who bought the last money? Fat cats? We're also writing them down on a level with the state. What, then, is there to be here? How will we implement the principle of equality provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine? I'd like to hear those answers. Let's figure out which one we're writing out, what list of payments, what amounts of debt we're writing down. Let's figure out if these companies were already subject to the law that we passed before -- how to pay off taxpayers' obligations to government trust funds budgets. Let us decide how we should deal with the State Budget Act, which states that it is forbidden to restructure or cancel the debt of tax, congregation, mandatory payments for the payment of taxes. How are we supposed to be here? And how should we feel about ensuring the same approach to owners, including residents, nonresidents, and so on? Who's here now? Can I see the whole list? So the solution is obviously one thing: the normal initiative is to write down pennies and fines on mandatory payments to all levels of budgets, but let's work on these things further. These are very serious things. And such a bill, if it can be adopted without the conclusion of a budget committee, without the conclusions of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, is it only on the first reading, because it is not known whether we will do better and much better? And any forgiveness of sins will lead to what we once had when we cheated on the debt to the colospas. Remember, that's how you liked it when you cheated that you had to think about what we were going to fill up with that pension fund? So I suggest, if you take it, it's only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u107	Seminoga. I can't see. Kirilchuk, please. Kirilchuk out of place. Get ready, nigger. Kirilchuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u108	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko In fact, the bill has interesting things to do, and it's going to have to be improved, because we know that the tax office has hung so many pennies and debts on even normal state-owned enterprises, and it has done so specifically to get the enterprise to such a state that it can be blocked and then given to someone. But there's a huge problem with the size of the pension bill, there's debt that's hiding, there's another one. There's no financial calculation, there's no budget committee, there's not a lot of stuff. And I think this law needs to be re-sended first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u109	Nigger. I can't see. Then, please, from the place True. It's a Pravdenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, this bill will write off debts to the Pension Fund for more than 15 million dollars. It may seem small to someone, but for someone, I'm sorry, it's bread and bread, and it's not populism at all. And I wouldn't advise anyone, especially before the presidential election, to go into the pocket of the Pension Fund. And if people work in one faction and act in the opposite way, please wish — find it out on the faction, not in front of the entire hall, it will be just more productive. Our faction will not vote for this bill in its entirety. In addition, Ukraine's National Pension Insurance Act prohibits defaulting on insurance contributions to the Pension Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u111	Yes, please, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u112	Dear National Deputies! You can't cheat on the Pension Fund. What's more, it's immoral to ask questions about what companies can cheat, where at least 25 percent of the government share. On the contrary, it is necessary to commit these enterprises to the state with a share of the debt owed to the Pension Fund, not to cheat on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u113	Please, Hinzburg. Hinsburg microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u114	Dear National Deputies! As I understand the problem raised by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, I would like to make some warnings. You see, the practice of defaulting on the Pension Fund has already proved ineffective. Yes, since 1994, debts to the Pension Fund have been written off for more than 7 billion dollars. And only in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on how to pay off taxpayers' obligations to budgets has debts to the Pension Fund been written off by 3.7 billion dollars. At the same time, corporate debt to the Pension Fund is increasing immediately after the turnout, and by December 1, 2003, it had reached nearly 860 million dollars. Under this proposed law, debts to the Pension Fund will be written off about 15 million dollars. But my predecessors have already said that it is forbidden to pay off the debt on payment of insurance contributions under the Law of Ukraine. Insurance contributions are a purposeful, general obligation to pay on a pivotal basis. Payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, all who signed up, took the floor. Before the vote, please, Yehanurov is a microphone, and Zeichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the businesses involved and the bourgeois who own them. It's an electric meter in Zitomire, it's an Osnastka in Novovolinsk, it's a Beautiful Light, it's a Lavanda in Feodosia, a Photon in Simferopol, similar machine-building enterprises. The point is that these are lying businesses that have started moving a little bit. We need to give them the opportunity to live on. The second question. 1995 That's the list coming out of it. So, in support of what I said, some positions, the People's MP Mironenko, I think that in the second reading procedure, we need to write out more clearly the conditions for all businesses that had debts at the time. And it will be done if it is accepted in the first reading. If not, dear Adam Ivanovich, I have this request: If it doesn't come out in the first reading, again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u117	Yes, of course. Please, Rabbit. It's the government's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like a moment of your attention. The practice of write-offs to the Pension Fund is, in fact, we go into the pockets of pensioners at the expense of those who should pay those contributions. People’s deputies have already set an example here. Think about it: on July 9th last year, the Act on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" was passed, where it was written down: legislation prohibits the granting of any benefits or the write-off of payments to the Pension Fund. Without even a year, we are making changes to the debt write-off legislation. And let's look at another factor like this. Those who have already lost their debt to the Pension Fund continue to raise their payments and, again, this is at the expense of those meager pensions that we should pay to our citizens. It's at the expense of a nurse, it's at the expense of a teacher we don't pay for. Because those workers avoid paying contributions to the Pension Fund, and this cannot be done. Please do not support this Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u119	Thank you. Shall we vote? I can't keep the agrarians away. Please, with Kozlowski's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Who will fill in the pension budget? We know that we have thirty-one billion a year, and we need to double the pension, we need sixty-seven billion. So our faction and I, personally, will not vote in favour of this Law. We need to fill out the pension budget so that more pensions can be made, not ours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u121	Lucenka, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u122	Lucenka, the faction of Soccer. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to Boris Alexandrovich, who defends the rights of pensioners, I would like to say. This bill applies to enterprises that do not have "fat cats" owners. The owners of these companies are the labor groups that have received a share of the property from the vouchers. These businesses have just started getting on their feet, like my own Gazotron factory, where I started. He started releasing Ukrainian electronics again. He needs to get rid of the hopeless, outdated debts without which there will be no new jobs. With all due respect to the pensioners and the Head of the Pension Fund, there will be no jobs, and the Pension Fund will not be filled. And you have to remember that, because only jobs carry egg gold in the form of payments to this fund. If we want to pay for everything, this often leads to the closure of all businesses, and it's just foolish: cutting the head off everything is rude, but it's uniform. Please support me in the first reading of this Law that is necessary for the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u123	More than possible has been discussed, so I am voting on the adoption as a basis of the Act on the write-off of debts to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and fines on compulsory payments of enterprises that have a share of state property and are in the process of restructuring. [[Registration number 4449]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:13:08]] For-38 The law is not adopted. There was an offer for rereading the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[6:13:33]] For-53 The bill was rejected. There is a draft Act amending articles 6 and 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxes Added on Tax Reduction. Registration number 2312, consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. Chernewsky. On another occasion, I remind you that the pressure of MPs has been included, and it has shown no interest. From the Committee of Terjochin or Tsushko. You don't? Then we take the question off the table. There is a bill to amend chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the allocation of expenditure. Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. Bill number 2095. National deputy Nikolaynko Stanislav Mikolaiovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u124	Dear National Deputies! National deputies of Ukraine, members of the Nikolayenko Committee on Science and Education, Bauer, Proskuratov and others introduced a draft law amending chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. The essence of the bill seems to be simple, but it is very important. So what happens is that out-of-school schools are stations of young people, naturalists, circles there, sections and so on, sports. They've come up with extra-budgetary funding. If schools, like school needs, we take, we look at the council budget and we give centralized grants to schools and stuff. So out - of - school schools were left with the rural budget, the city council, and so on. The result is that in Ukraine more than one million drug addicts and so forth. We suggest that, with defined inter-budget transfers, grants, assessments of the situation in the region take into account the situation of these children's upbringing and at least a little bit of this extra-school activity. I want to say that the science department clearly supports us and says that it would be appropriate to support this bill, because it is practically the only sector of education that has remained unanticipated. I know today that, let's say, the Budget Committee, which is forced to defend the honor of the Budget Code, will say it's devastating, it's still. People good, when there's not one section left in the country today, in the village, there's not one section left, then the money is the price then of all our codes and so on. So the requirements of all district councils, rural councils, village councils, let us make this change and support out - of - school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u125	From the committee. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Prášenko Petr Aleksiyovich. Assadchev, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear friends! You know, I always support education and education. I think the next piece of evidence was that you and I had adopted a great debt recovery law here, but the point is that the current budget code does not regulate the expenditure on the so-called network as it once was. There was a network, let's say, of educational institutions, of preschool networks, of non-school education networks, and it was counted. Now, the budget code formula takes into account the cost per capita of independence from the network. So if we're going to say we're going to make these changes, it's going to have to fundamentally, fundamentally change the existing budget code. By the way, I'm one of the authors of the new draft of the Code of Budgets, and that's exactly what these things are, because there's a completely different methodology for the formation of local budgets, including education. So I just want you to think that the committee, of course, can't support this, because this is completely contrary to the ideology itself of the current budget code. But of course this ideology is somehow wrong, and it creates the kind of problems that Stanislaw Nikolaynko was talking about. So I don't think we can actually combine these two ideologies of the code and these problems. The only way to do this is in the 2005 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u127	Yeah, we've got Carmazin and Black. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u128	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the polar points of view have now come to light. Reference is made to the fact that the Codex of Budget should be a sacred cow. Please tell me I appreciate the opinion of the experts of the Committee on Budgets, but please tell me whether you have been asked by this government, or by the Budget Code, when they accepted the budget in the first reading, in the second reading, in general, by ignoring the will of the national deputies and everyone else. There is no budget code in the state, it doesn't work. Let's speak clearly, if it doesn't work, let's change it to suit the needs of society. And Nikolainko is now talking about the needs of society, which are absolutely right. And if I didn't go to the airline once, didn't go to the other sections, maybe I would grow out of what grew up today from those who run the government. But, thank God, it didn't grow. [[Applause]] Thank you. That's why I think since the budget code is out of date. We need to ask our colleague Assadchev and everyone else to adopt a new codex. And in the first reading, we must support Stanislav Nikolayenko's proposal, first. Secondly, to listen to the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which I quote: "In our view, to create a level playing field for financing all components of education, it would be appropriate to support the legislative proposal for the proposed mechanism for financing extra-school education." That's how they write. Now look at the terms. No one loses anything by the deadlines. As long as we adopt this law in the first reading, while the second one is signed by the President, it will take effect, and it will only be possible from January 1st, 2005. We're not breaking anything. And we're going to have money in our budget to finance out-of-school education. Believe me, it's much better than funding then keeping 220,000 cities free, then the militias, and that's another 500,000, then the taxes, and so on, and so on, the militias. Then fund by listening to the devices that are now given by the team a month ago in all the offices of our Ukraine to set up the Ukrainian Security Service. Why would you do that? Let's finance education. This is our future, and it's the right thing to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u129	Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u130	Dear friends, extracurricular education is out of the budget system. It's not just nonsense, I'd say it's a crime. In fact, schooling is crucial, not higher education, but preschool education is crucial. A person’s participation is determined by the age of five. That's a well-known fact. And if a person is not given what he needs under five years of age, then virtually nothing can be changed. So we have to make preschool education a priority, extra-school and pre-school education. Let me continue. Preschool and out-of-school. And an extracurricular is even more important than a preschool one, because a decisive influence on a child is taking place outside the school. So the conclusion is that the bill that we're proposing is right, it's right, it's humane and it's strategically important. Now with regard to the denial of the budget committee. I think it's legal. If, Carmazin rightly said, we've adopted a budget for this year with severe violations of the Budget Code, and now we're afraid to go into some kind of misdemeanor because of the caseivity. Asadchev said that the network could not be financed. I'll tell you what, we have some on the network and some on the system. And we need to introduce pre-school education into the budget funding system, as he rightly said, per capita. And we connect here both the system and the network and the soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u131	Yes, dear fellows. A craftsman, please, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u132	Vladimir Masterskin, faction of "Ukraine". The "Ukrainen Region" faction has been discussing this issue today, and we fully support this idea of financing out-of-school education. And as a member of the budget committee, I can't help but agree. a deputy chairman of the committee on the illegality of this act as such. But remember that we have recently, literally, adopted the Budget Resolution, and I think that this would, in principle, be the norm of the Budget Resolution for the government to take into account in the 2005 budget calculations and this rule on the formula of non-budgetary education. So, honourable Members, I propose to vote in the first reading for this bill and to make it a policy for the government to form a budget position in 2005, taking into account the financing of non-school education as a socially important factor. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u133	Dear colleagues! We have a system that records the performance. Don't be lazy. Well, the Agrarian Party is good, but it's out-of-school education. I understand each and every one of you wants to testify. Yes, please sign up, three minutes of motive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, shall we start over? Please, Karmazin passes the word powder. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! In a decision reported by Valérie Mikhailovich, he did not announce three main ones. First, a letter from the government that the government strongly denies the adoption of this bill. Second, a letter from the Ministry of Finance saying that it cannot be taken into account today. [[By the way, it would be desirable for some members of the Budget Committee to get to know each other.]] This is for members of the government coalition, because most of the signatories under this law are members of the parliamentary-government coalition. Now for the decision of the Budget Committee. I am absolutely convinced that this issue needs to be settled. And that's why I call on the first reading -- this is the position of the absolute majority of the faction, including the faction of our Ukraine -- that the first reading of this bill will be adopted so that after the first reading, we can work on it and give it to the government to calculate the budget, including the amended version of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u135	The Colonies Will Be or Passing? Colonies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends! The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" has considered this bill today -- and it supports it in its entirety. And we recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers focus on this bill when the 2005 budget is set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u137	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u138	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our faction supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u139	Please, Klimpus. After him, Bauer. Yes, please, Bauer's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I think there's been a mistake, a misunderstanding. Because we need to be brought into harmony with the realities of life today. The point is that, in one way or another, these facilities are financed by district councils, district government administrations. But because of certain circumstances, they fell out of the school’s list of educational institutions. And what we're talking about today is that we need to include out-of-school institutions in the list of educational institutions. So our committee, and Stanislaw Mikolaiovich reported it, repeatedly asked both the budget committee and other committees to support the bill. By the way, all out - of - school institutions require us to adopt this Law. So I'd like to ask my honourable colleagues to support this bill and vote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u141	Instead of Vaszczuk, Kalinczuk has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the honourable authors of the bill. Our faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine will vote as a basis, and on the condition that the second article of this bill is consistent with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Extra-School Education, where the list goes. If the committee agrees, we vote in the first and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased with your activity, she is pleased that at the end of the session such a good thrill. But let us be calmer because voting is a serious issue. I am voting on the adoption of the Act on the basis of amendments to chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on the allocation of expenditure. Registration number 2095. The committee and the authors agree, taking into account the amendment made by Kalinchuk to reconcile the second article with the fifth article of the Law. Please vote. [[18:31:25]] For 415 Can we do it in general? Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Conditions for the Development of Homely Light Furniture and Woodworking Industry is being heeded. We have two bills here. Registration numbers 3020 and 3020-1. Klukkowski and Majko. Please. Klukkowski. None. Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, please, from the committee and your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u144	Mother, faction of the People's Democratic Party and industrialists and entrepreneurs. I have a brief offer, honourable deputies. There are two laws. Both laws need to be harmonized and then made as a proposal, one law. So I ask that these two laws be sent back for re-reading, and we'll give the law here one after a while. Please support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u145	No, I'm going to see if I have Carmazin. Yes, have a seat, please. Carmazine, do you insist on your word? Yeah. Please, Vitalia Ivanovich, sit down. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I want to start by saying that the shadowy circulation of furniture in our country is about $2 billion American, shadowy circulation of furniture. Imagine what it is. If we're driving a forest at 80 to 100 dollars a cube of wood, then it's sold by a final seller of 500 dollars a cubicle for a business tree, and then they're bringing it here already, and they're costing, come on in, look, out of 10,000 dollars a set. And they're all imported: Italian or Spanish, Yugoslav, Romanian and so on. Is it in the national interest of Ukraine that they come here and through customs, that bribes go through all of us, and we lose in the County Budget. Does it not answer? Or do we all just pretend that we don't see it, we don't know. But come and ask, ask those who trade in furniture, they will tell you. You and I were doing a draft on the Chernobyl area, where there was an easy and woodworking industry in the Cherniewec region. passed the law. And that's what even our costumes started to do. So I don't think we can reject the bill. They're not anti-gonistic, they're not Udovenko and Klukkowski's bill, they're not Onischuk and Mike, they're not antagonistic. One suggests a special order for lending innovative projects, a special regime for paying taxes on added value and on the profits of enterprises, and the introduction of a single tax on sales of goods. And the second suggests the reconstruction and modernization of production, the repayment of loans received for those purposes, the production and development of production. So that proposal that Mother made, in my opinion, might, as the author of the bill, in my opinion, be implemented in this way. Adopt both bills on their basis, then draft a bill. But serious, serious comments will be made to him, for it is clear that he cannot be accepted in the second reading. But people have to understand that we have to provide jobs for Ukrainians here in Ukraine, not send them to the Russian Federation, not Romania, not the Baltic where our people are being bullied. So I'm going to vote in favour of adopting these two bills as a basis. And I'm going to ask you to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u147	Yes. Please, Mihovich. Self-driving, if you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u148	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear colleagues, despite the dynamism of our last session, I would still ask very carefully to approach the bills under consideration. Their need, of course, is obvious. Because once the light, furniture, woodworking industries were powerful in Ukraine, they played an extremely important role not only in the economy, but also in the socio-cultural development of all regions, including Carpathians. Sadly, they too have suffered a sad fate in the process of reform. Today, only individual enterprises, such as the Uzhgorod Swein, the winegrower thanks to the enthusiasm of the leaders and the fact that there are barely any available on the donor raw materials. And about furniture production, about such powerful complexes as Swalavsky, Terezvian, Mukachevsky, and other powerful furniture combinations, there is nothing to say today. The proportion of Bill No. 3020 is difficult because it's been a fourth year. Why? The developers ignore the recommendations of experts, including the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The mechanism they have advocated is unlikely to provide a boost and a priority for those industries that can have a rapid and significant effect. This showed, as mentioned here, an experiment in the region of Cherniewec. What should we do? To prepare a bill is fundamental, modern, and specific. Well, let's start with a name. What are the conditions? Economic, legal, financial, technological, it's not clear. Then, according to the new name, you have to construct a structure. It now includes 6 articles, some of them complicated, including parts, items, sub-items, such as article 5 to thirty elements. The law is mainly about taxation. The final positions are too cumbersome, contradictory. Some positions are outdated, and some are already taken into account by the government. Some of the authors' proposals, as noted by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, are extremely difficult to implement and are unlikely to be implemented. Finally, it is good to recommend to the profile committee that applying the standards of the bill under consideration is for easy industry only. As for furniture, woodworking, these problems require the adoption of a separate comprehensive serious bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u149	The foxes want to say the word. Samowski and Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Law 3020 provides a number of tax benefits to furniture companies and compares them to collective farming and farming. Even in the agricultural sector, there is no such tax benefits as are offered to processed industries. In our view, our faction is to provide additional benefits to individual sectors. There is a need for changes in tax laws in all areas of the national economy. Already today, the Supreme Council has adopted a series of laws aimed at reducing tax burdens on innovation and improving the activities of domestic industrial enterprises. For example, an experiment carried out in the Chernivecki region did not give effect to the benefits of the woodworking industry. Those who don't want to pay taxes, unfortunately don't pay them. Breaking out of the context of tax reform one direction of industrial activity and supporting it at the expense of others is unacceptable. This is a manifestation of direct tax discrimination. Tax policy provides for the same approach to economic operators. Why, for example, public forestry companies should pay an additional 60 million dollars in taxes to support private furniture companies. Is there at least one example in the state that a private enterprise can help with landing, reproducing, or protecting forests? One thing is clearly the desire to support some of the industrial and financial interests that we all know in this room. Taking into account what has been said, and that the results of the economic experiment to stabilize the work of woodworking enterprises in the Chernobyl region, which is also the development of the 3020 bill, do not clearly address the purpose of implementing it within the state. I think this bill is not only not acceptable, it is another challenge for the oligarchs of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u151	Please, Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u152	Mikola Shershun, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! I'm going to speak for Bill 3020, and I want to point out right now that woodworking and furniture industries are not the only ones suffering from the imperfections of tax policy. In this regard, the creation of favourable business conditions is only for businesses that, I emphasize, are far from poor and not helpless, causing at least amazement or, to say the least, is the lobby bill, especially since the law is proposed to be put into effect on January 1, 2004. This is contrary to article 58 of the Constitution, article of the budget code. Moreover, the bill contradicts Ukraine’s commitments to join the World Trade Organization. Therefore, the specified project number 3020 cannot be adopted definitively. He needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u153	That's the kind of note we're going to finish. Question completed. Let's be clear. I'm talking about the adoption of the draft Law on the Conditions for the Development of Domestic Light Furniture and Woodworking Industry. Registration number 3020. [[18:43:33]] For-19 Puts the vote on the basis of registration number 3020-1. [[18:43:55]] For-41 That's a little bit better than 41. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 3, "Ukraine" - 0, "Communist faction" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 0, "The People's Government" - 6, "The Hard Ukraine" - 13, "The People's Agrarian Party." That's how they've been agitating, but -3, PPU - 0, Block Timoshenko - 6, Center - 0, Alliance - 1, NDP and SPT - 7, Postfraction - 2. There was a suggestion by the rapporteur and the committee of profile that both bills should be sent for re-reading and prepared on the basis of a single bill. Rereading the first reading. [[18:44:59]] For-55 Bills are rejected. Yukhnowsky with motive and Osika.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u154	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich! I would like to remind you and the deputies that Russia has imposed a duty on the export of raw unprocessed wood. Much less is imposed on boards, and there is no need to export fully processed furniture. When you look closely at the tax burden of woodworking and furniture industry compared to forest management, this burden is five times higher. So this is one of those sectors of light industry that has a huge tax burden. And so the development of furniture for Ukraine is a very important problem. Thus, such laws should not simply be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, let's get out of reality. The reality is that today is the last day of the fifth session. So for the sixth session, and before that, we're not going to be looking at anything else, any bill: rejected, ill-considered, re-voted -- you have the right to re-submit and consider. So do not make this a tragedy, please. Osaka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u156	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you very much to put what we forgot to vote for the first time again, the law that I reported. This involves that we today have to give any information to the FATF that we have done something. So I'm asking you to support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u157	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u158	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, as we approach the end of this evening's meeting, we all see that the number of walkers to you, asking for a consideration of something else, is increasing. I'm asking: let's not pour a drop of that tar in closing our current session. And we've already kicked so much of it into our basic law of the Supreme Council's vitality - the Rules of Parliament, so much that it's probably going to have to be smeared somewhere after other sessions. So I ask you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, to follow the schedule of today's session clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u159	Zarubinski, please. And we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u160	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, yesterday there was still a bill of government, I emphasize: government 3694. But today he did not enter by mistake. Here is a representative of a professional committee: finance and banking. They ask, the MPs ask, eight factions sign a total of 360 deputies to vote. There's no controversy, no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will work under the Rules. There is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the movement of transport and pedestrians in the course of a simplified procedure. Registration number 4052. As reported by Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Prepare Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u162	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I'd like you to calm down and listen to one of my requests. Today, there have been many Lobby laws, interesting economic laws, many very interesting laws personally. Let's finish the session by law, interesting to all society. In spite of the signs that Kabmin has imposed on you, let us think about what we are offered. The law was written a year after my visit to Crimea. At the height of the season, all transport communication begins to be blocked in Crimea. Because a few of the state's highest officials, and not only these masters, but also their soles, are completely halting the traffic not for half an hour, not for an hour, but for the entire day until the Pope is gone. I have a very big request for you. I understand perfectly, Your Honor, that you are not ready to vote for the President's impeachment today. But I would very much like you to vote, at least, for the impeachment of chaos that it creates on the road. My bill offers very simple things. Only three senior officials in the state: the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council can stop them five minutes before their arrival and five minutes after their arrival. And only for these three state officials, as well as their analogs, invited from abroad, can you do half an hour before and an hour after not allowing people to go to the places where they meet, do things, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, which is in agreement with the State Department of Security, is in agreement with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. They're all for him to be accepted. Because they don't have the Cerberian role of bullying people. I'm telling you. In Crimea, rapid assistance is not missed, and it is unknown how long until they pass. People who buy tickets and fly back to Russia don't miss out, ordinary citizens who trade that famous Crimean onion run. But it's not just in Crimea. All over the country, there is actually a total blockage of life at the moment of passing. And you're sitting here, you know that, driving through the Kiev bridges. So knowing that Mr. Klimpush is supporting me, a committee colleague, I would ask, without discussion, to conclude our session with a beautiful law and to grant freedom, at least on the roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u163	Please, the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and Climate Oreste Dmitrovich. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u164	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The draft Law aims to address situations that sometimes create social tension in our society during the passage of persons under State protection. It should be said that this problem is partially regulated by the President's decree of 6 February of this year on the organization of the carriage of vehicles equipped with special devices and with persons under State protection. But legislatively, it needs its settlement. The author has just spoken to you, I'm not going to repeat the essence of the project, I just want to say that it seems right to have a proposal that is guaranteed at various stops of traffic free travel of ambulances, militias, fire protections, emergency and emergency services that carry out their respective tasks. The bill is supported by the National Security and Defence Committee. The main scientific and expert management doesn't have any observations either, and they think it can be accepted in the first reading. Our committee proposes that this law be adopted as a basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u165	What does Carmazin have to say about this, please? Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Yesterday a child with a temperature of 38.6 in Odessa could not spend two hours because the Prime Minister had dinner. It's not a lie, it's true. I'll give you the people who called, who reported it and then thanked you for the fact that it stopped the lawlessness. So, honourable national deputies, I'm drawing your attention, now there's no Supreme Council Head, he promised you here that he would be removed from here. The lights on at the Supreme Council, remember when there was never a traffic light. And now there's still a road trip like this that we've got an extra traffic light standing there. We need to make some changes to the Police Act, where we can't distract the police and search along the route as it is now. Therefore, the honourable national deputies are proposed by this law to limit or prohibit the movement of vehicles and pedestrians to set up not more than 10 minutes before and later 5 minutes after the passages of these, the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council. The heads of the administration, not the Minister, not the heads of the services, not anyone to be listed. And this is in our Code of Road Traffic Laws, which we reported, you know what it should be. And there will be no deputies. All equal before the law. So I have a proposal for Klimpus to adopt this law in two readings, first and second, and to give a gift to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u167	Please, School. Get ready, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u168	First of all, I want to address those who belong to the majority. And the way their president stops the movement in Crimea now, it stops the movement in the whole city of Kiev and so on. You know, the presidential election is coming up. It's changing, and there's going to be another president. And you will be complaining about our Prime Minister from this rostrum. So let's take this question down now and again. Because, indeed, we are accustomed to living by old Soviet principles. Someone's attacking someone, someone's protecting them. But first of all, notice how the move takes place, even in Kiev, it's almost a block away, because someone's going to the cottage, someone's coming out of the cottage. By the way, it would be very interesting for the mayor of Kiev to drive through the overcrowded streets of Kiev, killed. Perhaps they thought of the need to build roadways, tunnels. So first of all, I'm talking to those who present the majority right now, your vote will not affect the situation, it'll only change, it'll improve the law. Because 10 before and 10 after is puttin' in order to get through to your president, and that's enough for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, Kirilenko will be performing now, but we're going out in the flesh. There is an offer to work today before all issues are resolved. Then I'm going to announce that we're working until we're done on this issue, that's five to seven minutes somewhere. Please, Kirilenko, Solomonine is behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u170	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I will address above all the people who are now listening to us, especially in their cars. Automobiles are the ones most affected by high - ranking officials, when traffic overlaps in Kiev even in the south, and in provincial cities, district centers, when a high official arrives, roads overlap two days before and two days after that. The bill introduced by the deputy Lucenko is very important, especially now. He clearly defines the list of only the first officials in the country who have the right to use the escort during their travels, it is only the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, not all those who have breached their license or breached their escort as it is now. In addition, the bill, introduced by Deputy Lucenk, clearly provides that the roads will be blocked 10 minutes before one of the first three persons or the head of a foreign delegation leaves the door open five minutes after the trip. What do we have now? As Deputy Karmazin reported in his statement, yesterday Odessa was virtually paralyzed because Prime Minister Janukovic was present. I have seen the same situations over and over again from experience. For example, the last arrival of Prime Minister Janukovitch to Herson two months ago caused all the traffic lights in all the central streets in Herson to be turned off two days before arrival, to be switched on in the yellow lightning mode, and to be turned on two days after arrival. And the whole center of the town of Herson was paralyzed for four days because Prime Minister Janukovic was in the south. If adopted, this law makes it impossible to do so. In general, I think that any high official should be more modest in his desires. It is not necessary, first of all, to think about the militia escort and other accompanying benefits. For example, when the prime minister of Ukraine was Victor Yushchenko, he often drove his own car by himself, driving it, and it did not foresee any overlap. And the many tours of the city of Kiev by Yushchenkom in the field of service did not reflect the normal activity of the city of Kyiv and Kyiv. So the faction "Our Ukraine" thinks that democracy is when people don't notice the presence of power, and the city doesn't fight in convulsions a week before the arrival of a high official, president or prime minister, and a week after that. It's not democracy, it's Asia, it's authoritarianism. And that's what we're on our way to. The faction of "Our Ukraine" supports the adoption of this law, which limits the overlap of the streets during the travel of the country's first officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u171	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u172	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u173	Dear colleagues, I have declared before this matter is concluded. We have to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u174	Honorable colleagues and respected radio listeners. Our faction will vote in favour of this bill. Period. And the second. I congratulate you all on ending this kind of absurd theater called the bourgeois Supreme Council and getting into the arms of our electorate, and there we will be responsible for what we did or did not do. Dear voters! The Communist faction is coming to you, to communicate with you, to count with your thoughts, and together with you, we will win the next election. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u175	Yes, please, the First Deputy Minister of the Interior, Matthew from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! These issues, which are addressed in the draft law, are regulated by the President's decree, which was adopted in February this year, and by the State Protection Service Act. The IMF position is not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-07-01-m1.u177	Yes, the discussion is over. I am betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis of the Amendment Act to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the movement of transport and pedestrians during the implementation of security measures, Bill No. 4052. I'd like to make up my mind. [[19:02:23]] For 238. The Law was adopted in the first reading. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Show the factions, please. Our Ukraine is 99, the Ukraine is 2, the Communists are 58, the Social Democrats are 0, the Democratic Initiative. People's government - 10, Labour Ukraine - 1, National Agrarian Party - 1, Socialists - 19, Block Timoshenko - 19, Center - 9, Union - 0, NDP, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again: Come on, I'll read what you're asking. You asked for factions. Do you want to throw a rally? The Alliance - 0, the NDP and the SPT - 15, the Postfaction - 5 If there were 300, you could put it as a whole, if 239 is not possible. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Because there is a denial. I'm gonna say it again. Be careful. To conclude, I would like to make an announcement: in accordance with article 4.2, paragraph six. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association to protect the interests of small businesses. As part of the union, 18 national deputies were elected as the head of the national assembly, the Ukrainian deputy, Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich. In line with article 4.2, paragraph six. 3 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine inform you of the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association "Green Ukraine. Six national deputies were involved in this union. The Interfractional Union is headed by the national deputy of the Ukraine of Fíalkovsí Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch. At this evening’s meeting, I declare it closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
