ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:37]] Registered -420 Four hundred and twenty national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Ratushnjak Sergio Mikolaiovich. Let's welcome him and wish him well. Dear colleagues, you have a meeting schedule for Tuesday. This is a matter of schedule and agreed on by the Conciliation Council. So we have every reason to get to work. Draft decrees for the termination of the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission are being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, we obviously need to divide this question into two. First, consider the question of termination, and then we will move on to the next part of the question of appointment of CLTC members. The President's Permanent Representative to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Zadrážní Alexander Viktorovich, has the floor for the report. Please, Alexandre Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u2	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine has addressed the Constitution, with a law to submit to the Supreme Council on the termination of the powers of members of the Central Electoral Commission. Taking into account that the reasons for the termination of the mandate of the members of the CLTC differ, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting, at which I represented these candidates, decided on the procedure for the consideration and approval of the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council on the candidates submitted. The committee proposed, and accordingly, as indicated, by a separate decision, it proposed that the decision be terminated, that Demjanek Mikli Ivanovich be terminated in connection with his death. By Decree 5057, it is proposed that the members of the Central Electoral Commission be suspended under two circumstances. First, with the end of the term of office, it is proposed that Alsufiev Viktor Ivanovich, Galician Alexander Vasilovich, Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, Koval Mikli Ivanovich, Ryubek Mikhail Mikhailovich, Singer Vasil Ivanovich. And in connection with the end of the term of office and the retirement of David’s Reynolds Costinovich, Daniluk Valentina Anatoliyovich, Nalma Alexander Vijacheslavovich, the Ancient Galina Maximovna, the Tataric People’s Archipivna. These draft regulations are before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u3	What about Dementia?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u4	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u5	Is there a question for the President's representative? You don't? Have a seat, please. Is it? Please sign up for three minutes. Please sign up. Mikola Karnauh. On the board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Karnauh gives Lucen his word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u6	Mr. Zadrodzny, Mr. President's Honourable Representative in Parliament, I would like to know from you, as well as our voters, what the President has been doing for months, when he has long had to contribute a new composition of the CBC. Why did the President of Ukraine once again grossly violate the Constitution of Ukraine? Why are there no representatives of the parliamentary opposition within the CTC? Does this mean that President Kuchma is preparing for the appointment of President, or can we still expect to have the President's election? But most importantly, what did he do for months in violation of the Constitution without listing the new members of the CLTC?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. The point is that the President was out and functioning properly in the legal field, and functioning accordingly in the legal field, the President assumed that the term of office had ended on January 20th and that he had filed an application accordingly. I pay your attention, Your Honor Yuri Volodymyrovich, that the committee, when considering the submission, did not take into account the circumstances leading up to that submission, but considered, specifically, the submission and its legal nature and acknowledged, considering the submission, its rightful nature. I don't have any other comments. As for, well, let's say the quality composition of those individuals or whom they represent, the President was guided solely by article 85, paragraph 21, according to which the President submits and the Supreme Council makes decisions. Therefore, neither the Constitution nor any law provides for any mechanism of formation or representation. That is why the President, in accordance with the Constitution, directed his submission to the Supreme Council, realizing that decisions on this matter would be made by you, the honourable national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u8	Yes, Valery Desert, your question, please. None. Then Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u9	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Viktorovich, I'd like to hear an answer here at the session to a question I've already asked at our committee meeting. The Central Electoral Commission Act stipulates that within one year the composition of the Central Electoral Commission may not be changed by more than one third, but the president's proposals for the appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission will result in a change of more than two thirds. How is this in line with the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u10	Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Bogdanovich, for asking. Just as I answered you and the committee, it seems to me that with that answer, well, at least if you didn't agree, you didn't deny it, let's say, the legal nature. The risk posed by the implementation of the Law on Cessation for a year of no more than a third is, and it can accordingly lead to a portion of the members of the CLTC being dispossessed, i.e. their authorization under another law to be terminated. So when we make decisions about the submission, about the termination of the powers, we have assessed the situation and concluded that, by deciding whether or not to terminate the powers of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, and by renewing the mandate accordingly, we are thus making it impossible for the legal commissions to stop, since the next draft decision that I will report is the draft decision on the appointment of the new members of the CWC. Thus, on the basis of these warnings and understanding of the situation, it was concluded that more appropriate in terms of law enforcement would be the appointment of new members of the CLTC. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that one of the members of the CLTC, whose mandate is proposed to stop, is being reassigned. Here's the situation. There is no clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u11	Thank you, Alexander Victorovich. Have a seat. I just want to make it clear, my fellow Members, that the Central Electoral Commission Act states in article 6: "After the formation, the letter "c" is, after the formation of the commission and according to this law, its personal composition cannot change by more than one third over a year. So we essentially have to form first. And when we form a commission, we won't have a right to change it by more than a third. Please contact the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like us to support the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to consider the termination of the mandate, and then to ask questions about the appointment, including on all the rules that apply to the requirements of the Constitution and the Central Election Commission Act. So I would like to urge you to take decisions on the termination of the powers of members of the Central Electoral Commission, which is in line with the requirements of the Central Election Commission Act. I would also like to support everything that Alexander Victorovich has said, we have actually agreed to vote on the Demianka ruling in connection with death. Then support the President’s proposals, the committee’s proposals, not by one decision, but by two decrees: the termination of the mandate of the members of the CLTC in connection with the end of the term of office and the second order, the termination of the mandate of the members of the CLTC in connection with the end of the term of office, and the retirement. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I proposed that these decisions be put to the vote and decided on it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u13	No objection, dear colleagues? None. Does anyone have a question? Please sign up for the question, three minutes. On the board, indicate the name of the national deputies who have been registered. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u14	A faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. That's my question. Why isn't the President making it, but the people's deputies, these candidatures, they're referring to a more faithful decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u15	Thank you. I, Mr. Stephen, will report to you once again that the President has put forward a draft ruling, but the draft ruling made by the President is being proposed by a single decision on the termination of powers on various grounds. Therefore, the committee, after considering the draft decision, is proposed by two rulings, as this will be a more legal decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u16	Boris Oilynik, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Anatoly Sergeiovich, and don't you think you should actually listen to Michael Mikhailovich Rybc, because I'm interested in still an initiative group that detonated the referendum. And how did it happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u18	Boris Illihu, I think your proposal is as interesting and correct as ever, but it would obviously have to be considered when Mr. Rybetz was performing his duties as head. And if it were introduced a little earlier, I think the committee would be happy to support your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u19	People's Deputy Smianenko, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u20	Please give the floor to Deputy Nadraghe.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u21	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u22	Dear Anatoly Sereevich! I have no doubt in any way that you know the normative basis in principle. But I have a question. If we start to vote by two decrees, as you suggest, do you not think that there might be a situation, that one decision would pass, and the other one would either block or vice versa. In this case, it doesn't matter. And in fact, instead of taking a decision, we are once again tied up in votes, agreements and everything else, which, in principle, is the first sentence of a single order on all those who are released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u23	You know, I don't think it can be because we have to be all law-abiding. Six years, the deadline is over, and we have to stop. And I think that's exactly the question of stopping the hall can't have any differences. The second point of purpose is that there may be different points of view. But we're going to discuss this once we've formally decided on the side, we're going to complete the mandate of the CLTC, which has completed its work by doing six years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u25	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich! Please tell me how the committee dealt with the question of the proportional representation of the electoral parties and the blocs that won, including in the 2002 elections, the new Central Electoral Commission, because this could be a guarantee of objectivity, transparency, honesty and order of elections, since it is known that the previous CEC of the President’s elections in 1999 were falsified because Moroz and Simonenko went to the finals, and Kuchmi was not there. What can you do to make sure that this does not happen now? Can you please tell me if I've been thinking about this committee or not? If you were thinking about it, suggest a solution and a decision to support them now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u26	Thank you. I called at the very beginning of my information on the need to distinguish two problems: the problem of ceasing powers and the problem of appointing new members of the Central Electoral Commission. So I'm going to touch on this problem, and I'm going to inform the members of the Supreme Council in more detail about the position that the committee took in supporting the Harmash initiatives, the Klutkowski and other national deputies on proportional representation, but this is already the second issue of today's debate on the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u27	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, I bet. By Procedure or by Motivation? What's the procedure? From the voting procedure? Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and Your Honor Anatoly Sergeiovich, I would like to address you as well. The point is that the President is the object of the application. And he only has to act as the subject of the legislative initiative and submit a draft corresponding legal act to be voted by the Supreme Council, because if this act is submitted to the MP, we have equal conditions for all of us. And then I also have the right to make the appropriate draft decision. So I think that those projects that are being submitted to the session hall today are unconstitutional. We do not have the right to vote on them by national deputies. This should be done by the President as the subject of the legislative initiative and by the only subject who has the right to submit these candidatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! The president carried out the mission, and he submitted two papers, but at the same time the committee submitted its papers. That's why there are presidential papers. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u30	Yuri Klukkowski, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. I want to answer my colleague Assadchev. The Ukrainian National Deputies, members of our committee, have not made any new proposals regarding the Central Election Commission's candidates or new proposals for the termination of CLP members' credentials. They acted solely on the basis of the President's application. And the new regulations, the new draft regulations that have been made, only apply to the form of the decision that the President of Ukraine proposed. That's why we acted on the basis of the President's submission, not the draft decrees made by the President. And I'm asking these two things to make a legal distinction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm putting to the vote the Bill of Order No. 5056 on the termination of the terms of office of the members of the Central Electoral Commission." It is meant to stop Demyanek Mikli Ivanovich from being authorized to die. Please vote. Registration number 5056. [[10:19:28]] For 404 Decision taken. I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council regulation, registration number 5057 on the termination of the terms of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission. Please vote. [[10:19:58]] For 406 Decision taken. Let us move on to the second part of the question of the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Dear colleagues, one minute, we need to agree on the rules. Dear colleagues, the committee has considered this issue and proposes such a regulation. I'm asking for your attention. Set this order for consideration at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. Listen to the report of the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Road in 10 minutes. A report by a representative of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government in seven minutes. Each candidate's speech as a member of the Central Electoral Commission is within three minutes. The candidate’s answers to questions are within five minutes each. Discussing candidates from all MP factions and groups for up to 45 minutes. Each candidature shall be voted separately by means of an open fixed name card vote, as provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Order to accept the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission separately. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Please be supportive. [[10:21:38]] For-127 What questions do we not want to consider or what? Rudzkowski, please, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think we need to discuss this between factions. But my proposal is to give more than 10 minutes of answers to each challenger's questions. Because in five minutes we can't really explain the position of the candidate to the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u33	I'm putting a vote on the proposal -- up to 10 minutes to answer the question, and everything else stays the way it was. [[10:22:34]] For 148 Dear colleagues, I'm going to announce these proposals once again, and I'm asking you to support us to move to a constructive path, and I'm modernizing it a little bit. A report by the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Road, up to 10 minutes, a report from the committee, up to 7 minutes. Come on, there's a speech and a question to the candidate. Let's ask the candidates in five minutes. No speeches. We're going to have a discussion over, say, 30 minutes and then we're going to have to do it. Let's just support this proposal. I'm putting her to a vote, please support this. [[10:23:26]] For 399 Decision taken. Please give the floor to the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine, Alexander Zadrodzny.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u34	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Your consideration of the President's motion under article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution, is given by the President to your consideration of the following: Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich, Zavaljevska Valentina Alexandrovna, Zaplačinski Vladimir Mihajlovich, Kačur Igor Anatolievich, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, Knjazevich Ruslan Petrovich, Ohindowski Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich, Stichinski Bronislav Stanislavovich, Tolkov Igor Viktorovich. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council, a list is prepared and distributed to you, this folder is all the documents that the honourable candidates have filled out before their nominations have started to be considered in the Supreme Council. All documents are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Rules and are distributed to you. At the February 11th meeting of the Committee, Bondiq, Davidovich, Donchenko, Zavaljewski, Zavalinski, Kachur, Kiwalov, Knyazevich, Ahindowski, Rajkowski, Styczynski, Tolčakova were considered, and the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to consider. There were questions for some of the candidates, questions related to vocational training, political views. As a whole, the committee focused, and I, as a representative, represented the candidates. on professional requirements. Accordingly, the President requests the Supreme Council to consider these nominations and determine their appointment to the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Today we need to discuss the submission of the President of Ukraine, introduced - I want to emphasize - on February 2, 2004: the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission. Before expressing the Committee's position on the personal composition of the Central Electoral Commission, I would like to use the Rules and the opportunity to say a few words about the formal legal side of the situation that we have with the Central Electoral Commission. The Central Election Commission, as a permanent body and persons who are part of it, should act on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, which took effect in 20.01.1998. So if we look at the term of office of the Central Electoral Commission, we should, under extreme circumstances, form a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission by January 20, 2004. On the basis of the above, we should also be given the President's release, and the President's appointment to new posts. Regrettably, the President of Ukraine failed to comply with the requirements of the Constitution and the law, thus making it impossible for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to execute its mandate in a timely manner with regard to the termination of its powers and the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission. I would like to inform the people's deputies that this has been done, despite a repeated appeal, a formal request by the Chief of the Supreme Council for a proposal from the Conciliation Commission and the Committee of the Supreme Council. Moreover, breaking the Constitution and the laws made me even prepare an appeal to the court. Thus, by 20.01, the President had failed to carry out his constitutional duties. Official address and official submission were made only on February 2. In this regard, a legal vacuum was formed because members of the Central Electoral Commission were unable to carry out their duties on a temporary basis. This conclusion comes from the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 27.04. In 2000, right on number 1-22/2 thousand. In view of the above, the Central Election Commission, unfortunately, has no reason to carry out the mandate, including the holding of 07.03. In 2004, the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy in 61 constituencies, the Donetsk Region, where elections were scheduled instead of the extermination of the National Deputy. That's the situation at the moment. I would like the national deputies to know about this situation. And that's why we need, unfortunately, even later, to solve the problem of CLTC, because CLK's inaction is not in favour and not in favour of Ukraine. But it's loud, not cell. So I'd like to draw your attention to another point that the committee has been paying attention to. Throughout this period, the change in the CLTC committee supported the authors of the draft decision to recommend the completion of the term of office of individual members of the CLTC. tabled by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Klukkowski and Zvarič, proposing consultations by the President of Ukraine with the political forces represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there's also a proportional purpose, ensuring minority interests in forming a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. The committee was also supported by a draft law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, introduced by the National MP Halina Harmash, which also suggested that a proportional representation of members of the CLTC should be envisaged. However, the submission of the Committee of 7 November last year, I am answering Mr. Carmazin's question, 2003 has not been considered by the Supreme Council. And in this way, the relative composition of the CLTC, the relevant principles and technologies, the consultations that were offered by a group of national MPs, in our view, is not taken into account today. In considering the nominations submitted by the President on February 2, the Committee noted that the President of Ukraine also violated the requirement of part six of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on CEC, which states that after the commission was formed, its personal composition could not change more than 1/3 during the year. By establishing such a rule in law, the Supreme Council envisioned a gradual change in the members of the CLTC, that is, to preserve some principle of the future and to ensure a more qualified work of the commission. Today, we are practically predicting by our determination that the Central Electoral Commission will change more than 2/3. And that's why the question of the efficiency and professionality of its work, and more on the threshold of the President's election, really, is right and justified. This is what I thought it would be necessary to record and pay attention to when we make that decision today. But I say again, we have to make a decision, as the committee thinks, because CEVC has to be efficient and legal. Therefore, the committee at its meeting also proposed an appropriate procedure for consideration. And we thank you for supporting it today, so that each candidature can be considered separately and decided separately. At its meeting, the committee did not express its position on support or support for any other candidate. The committee considered only the formal side of the problem and felt that the decision should be taken by the Supreme Council. He therefore invites the Supreme Council to consider each candidate separately and to make a separate decision on each candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u37	Thank you, Anatoly Sergeiovich, you. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to invite the candidates to the rostrum. Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, please. Sign up for a question to Bondick, your esteemed colleagues. Five minutes as agreed. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u38	Mr. President, I ask you to explain in two words what your previous experience is in the legal, political and professional capacity for this important work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u39	All present, Your Honor presiding. Let me speak Russian because we did. Got it. Then I get to the point. I know article 10 of the Constitution Act on State Language. I've had legal experience since 1991. Now I'm a lawyer, head of the Science and Technology Center for the Anti-crisis Management of Bankruptcy and the Sanitation of Enterprises. I can't have political experience because the article of the CEVC Act stipulates that I should be non-partisan. That's what it is. I'm out of the loop for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u40	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u41	Valery Anatolyovich, I'm at the front, look ahead. I want to ask you a question. You've declared 380,000 of your annual income, you're living well, you're making money, and you're going to a job that has a salary of 2,000 dollars. So there's always a little bit of doubt, what is it to you? At your age, you have to do business, make money, not engage in intrigue, and find yourself somewhere on the brink of your perspective. What's it for, honestly?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u42	Dear colleague, let me address you this way, I'm going to go to the state service, I've been a military officer in the past, a reserve officer, and when there's a presidential submission, I'm not sure I'm going to discuss it, because I've been on the reserve of the state service, I've been doing a competition for the state administration in Donetsk, I've written a report and probably my time has come. What about what happens in my income? I've declared everything honestly and clearly, so I don't think there can be any questions for me on this basis. There are tax authorities, let them check.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u43	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u44	Valery Anatolyevich, there's only one thing I can wish you -- you're holding on because in this room you like to ask something that sometimes raises the question, do you have to listen to it? I have a question of order: do you think that your professional level will allow you to get into this without further ado? You're a lawyer, that's the first one. The second is, unfortunately, that you do not have the experience of public service. So, what do you personally think your potential is enough to carry out your duties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u45	I cannot judge myself, by my professional qualities, by my work path of life, by my right to judge, at least immodestly. But I think I've got some experience, and I won't need any time to play ball. Although if necessary, I will naturally consult with my colleagues who are older than me. In that regard, I am ready to learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u46	Rozwadowski, members of the National Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u47	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. 69th constituency, Victor Rozwadowski. Please give the floor to the national deputy Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u48	Vasil Gavriluk, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Valery Anatolyevich, I wanted to make it clear to you. Please explain how you think the work of CER should be more transparent and specific. In principle, as a former military officer, I believe you should be supported. But your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u50	Thank you for your question and support. But I can't give any prescriptions right now, no program, because I'm not actually elected by you as a member of CFC. And secondly, there's the Central Election Commission Act that you've adopted and beyond the law to go wrong. Some changes are regulatory, regular, and Secretariat matters. If any of my suggestions are taken into account, that's all I'd be happy to do. Although I have my own opinion, the law allows me to have my own opinion, my own, so to speak. Maybe that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u51	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u52	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Valery Anatolyovich, you surprised me very much when you declared your political non-participation with any political party. Let me not believe you. The thing is, we have two powerful political parties in Ukraine. One of the Communist parties I belong to, and the other is officially not registered in Minsk, Ukraine’s capitalist party led by President Kuchma and his surroundings and along with the bourgeois opposition of Victor Yashchenk. Tell me, which of these political parties does your sympathy go to -- the Communist Party of Ukraine, that is, the Party of the People, or the Capitalist Party of Ukraine, that is, the party of modern oligarchs and passersby? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u53	I didn't get my last name, Your Honourable People's Deputy, Yuri Petrovich. I say again that the law requires me to be extra-secret. And the attitude towards any of the parties has nothing to do with me dealing with either one party or the other. As for the President, the President is a symbol, it's a state institution, it's a guarantor of the Constitution, a head of state, it's a symbol of the state like Hymn, a flag, and I don't think that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Please sit down, Valérie Anatolyevich, time is running out. Have a seat, please. Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich. On the board, please explain the names of the national MPs who are enrolled. Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u55	Please give the floor to the Turkish national deputy Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u56	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u57	Thank you for being able to ask questions. I want to ask you, you have experience working in the C.V.C.K. of this call. And you know how many flaws there were in the C.V.C.A., especially the C.E.V.C.A. has always been accused of involvement and orientation in executive power, particularly the President's Administration. Do you think the CEVC will be able to take into account the negative experience that is today when working on past electoral campaigns? Will the situation only get worse? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u58	To your question, I would have answered such a question, Mr. People's Commissioner, that the Central Election Commission was working honestly, transparently, openly and making its decisions. These decisions have always been unpopular for some group of subjects in the electoral process. All I'm going to say is that almost 99 percent of the Central Electoral Commission's decisions have been made legally, unaccused, so that shows that the Central Election Commission was working in the legal field. And you can have a personal opinion on this. I believe that the Central Election Commission has laid good groundwork for the future Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u59	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u61	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, you have indeed embraced an extremely responsible, difficult, hardworking woman, and, frankly, an ungrateful position as Secretary of the CBC. Please tell me, over the years that you have worked in such a position, examining the information that has come, analyzing all of these commissions that took place during your work, can you say as a lawyer, as a specialist, as a civil servant, or suggest some of your comments on those legislative proposals regarding the future election of Ukrainian national deputies that are currently being considered in this sessionary hall? And another question is whether you need any legislative assistance from the higher legislative body of Ukraine - the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the entire Central Electoral Commission. Two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u63	Thank you. The first question I would have answered was that for six years I worked as a working group, led working groups to make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the laws on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, the election of the President of Ukraine, and drafted a bill on the referendum in Ukraine, which was unfortunately not considered in the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we have, in my colleagues who are going to hand over a lot of work to the Supreme Council. I think they'll be useful. With regard to the legislative assistance of the Central Electoral Commission, I believe that this composition of the Central Electoral Commission that worked and the future is also ready to assist the relevant Sectoral Committee in improving electoral legislation. Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u64	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u65	I'm asking you to give the word to Roman Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Jaroslav Vasilovich, during the last election, you personally coordinated the work of the election commissions in the Zakarpatsky and Ivano-Frankiv region. We remember what happened in the 90s in the constituency. On election day, there was no opening work on six district committees. Why no one has ever been called to account in this constituency on these committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u67	Thank you. I would like to remind the distinguished national MPs that the night before the election was the night a candidate was killed in the Ukrainian National Deputies, a shot-out candidate named Scribljak. The electoral process in this election process began ambiguously. And I'll tell you, not six, but nine polling stations didn't vote. I will personally say that my conscience is clean. All day long, I spent the morning working on this issue. And almost at lunchtime, voting began in virtually the vast majority of polling stations, and voting took place. At nine polling stations, indeed, it was not conducted. This was the decision of the district election committees. Sadly, it was not possible for Kiev to direct their activities. And to be held accountable, he was attracted. Referrals to the appropriate authorities regarding responsibility. There was no commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u68	Dear Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u69	Dear Jaroslav Vasilevich. Tell me, please, this room is very often filled with the idea that there is constant administrative pressure by the executive authority on the CER. But you, a person who has worked for so many years in the CIA, please say: and on the part of the MPs, there was pressure, and what was the situation in terms of relationships and attempts to correct, so to speak, if not a solution, the mood of the CIA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I can answer that. It was not easy to work those six years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u71	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich, please go to the rostrum. Sign up for a question to Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich, if you have one. On the board, please explain. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u72	I ask you to pass the word to Gapoczek Nikolai Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u73	Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u74	Your Honor, I'd like to address you, remind you of the eight years you've been a member of the second and third vocation. In the Luhansk region, where you were a representative, you were abusing those people who wanted to do good for the inhabitants of Lugansk, the miners of all, the workers. With what conscience will you view yourself as a member of the CICA and again harm those who will go to create a state? I want you to withdraw your candidacy as a person without a moral right to this place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikhailovich. I would answer that question in a way that's your opinion, it doesn't match my political views when we were on the job. And if you talk to me about my constituents, the voters, I'm politicizing that question again, supported that political party, the organization in the last election. And I think it was confidence in me, as in the MP who worked during this year, these exclamation points, two exclamation points. If I talk about results that aren't done, I can tell you that the last cadence, I've had 50 meetings, 50 receptions in a district where about a thousand citizens were accepted. All these references were given the right decisions by the authorities, where I went, they weren't all positive, they were all negative, it was such a thing, the MP is working, he's not only solving the issues, but there are issues that aren't considered. But what you've been able to ask me today is the rise of democracy in our country. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u76	Ivan Verni Dubov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u77	Be good, you really have a service list that's normal, like you're working all over the place. Well, this lack of legal experience, as you yourself believe, will give you the opportunity to work fully on this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u78	Thank you. I will answer in Russian because the question is spoken in Russian. 50 bills, the author of which is People's Deputy Donchenko 'in the course of only the last cadence, I think the answer to whether I can't' work from a legal point of view in the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u79	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u80	The Communist faction, Gurenko. Dear Yuri Grigorovich! As far as I know, you were mainly involved in social problems during your parliamentary activities. And what you've said about the number of times you've met in your district, and the main thing is that it's a two-fold victory in such a difficult district, it shows that you've been conscientious. But of course, in order to provide more detailed information, I would ask you to remind the new MPs here of some of the bills that have been submitted to you and which were then made public not only in the decisions of the Supreme Council but also in the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u81	Stanislav Ivanovich, and not only where you said it, but there was also a hearing before the Constitutional Court, you know, about a bill that applied to banning the raising of prices on utility bills without compensation for wages and pensions. Such bills are 50. I'd probably call it the simplest, but that bill that I'm still grateful for from my Ukrainian citizens is about the 67th article to KZOT. I mean, if the weekend matches the holiday, the next day is the weekend. That is, there is the power under this law on the second day of the Passover or the Trinity to get out of these festivals. And I can call 50 laws, but I think that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u82	I don't think it's easy anymore. Please sit down, Yuri Grigorovich. Valentina Alexandrovna of Zavalev Please sign up for Valentina Alexandrovna. Yes, on the board, please. Konovaluk, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u83	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am pleased that among the candidates in the Central Electoral Commission there is a representative, there is one woman, even though we are trying to create a condition in which 30 percent of the women MPs will work. Dear Valentina Alexandrovna, you really have a very rich experience, I see it in your bio-help, and I have no doubt that you will do your job fully, but I want to ask you this question. Your work at the High Council of Justice and an assessment of some or other legal events that caused, say, the activities of the Central Electoral Commission for the period you worked in this institution. How do you feel about what needs to be done to improve the work of this Central Electoral Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. Honourable National Deputies, acting as Deputy Chief of the Apparatus, Head of the Office of the High Council of Justice, did not directly raise any questions that would be relevant to the Central Electoral Commission's consideration. So today I just don't have the opportunity to say anything about it. With regard to improving the work of the Central Electoral Commission, I think I also don't have the opportunity to analyze the work, the work of the Central Electoral Commission. If trust is shown to me, surely I will work to ensure that the work is done at the right level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u85	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u86	Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, faction of the Socialist Party. Valentina Alexandrovna, I know you as a colleague in parliament, with whom I have accepted the Constitution together on that constitutional night and not one pud of salt ate, working on both the budget and the taxes, and I want to wish you success, and that you remain as you are today, all the more so that I know that parliamentary work, which has been for four years, will help you to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u87	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u88	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u89	Reverend Mrs. Valentina, your bright image, of course, I'm wearing from this constitutional night and I'm very glad you're on the rostrum. You know, you've had a C.V.C.C.B. Bondick Valerius. He was modest, but he said with a taste: although the salary would be much lower than he earned, the President ordered, and he followed the President's orders. Logic led me to think that tomorrow the President would order him to falsify the election, and he would say, "I'm a war man, I'm a fake." How would you answer that question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. I have taken full responsibility for the proposal to work on the Central Election Commission, and I have given full responsibility for the appointment, and I would answer that work should be done as required by the Constitution and the Central Election Commission Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u91	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u92	Thank you. Valentino Alexandrovno! Jaroslav Cuhy, faction of SDPU, town of Zaporozhye. I have a question not as provocative as that of a respected colleague who just asked, please tell me. Well, first of all, I'm going to be aspiring for everyone to vote for you. Not because you're a woman, but because you have this life experience. And there are also people in the CFC who, apart from all legal cassualistic things, know life, because it's much more multifaceted than legal science. I want to ask you, what do you think, as you can see, this experience of yours will be useful in making decisions? And how?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. In fact, I have been in the public service for 20 years. For over 12 years, I have been leading the region in Kirovgrad, and I have had great experience in organizing the electoral process. Many times she went through a handful of electoral struggles, being a national deputy. I know the value of a parliamentary mandate. And believe me, I will work in such a way that I can carry out my tasks with honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u94	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Valentina Alexandrovna, the faction will certainly support your candidacy and invite all national MPs to do so. I asked Jaroslav Suhi very well. So I'm left with this answer that you said. I think your education as an economist-jurist will allow you to work very actively on the Central Electoral Commission. We wish you success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u97	Please sit Valentino Alexandrovno. Time's up. Plaštinsky Vladimir Mikhajlovich is invited to the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u98	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenkka's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I know you from Parliament's work and your previous call. Why do I know, even though you're entering a faction with the letter "oh" as such a sober policy. Please tell us how you feel about what is being proposed today, such as the political forces represented on the Central Election Commission. Will this contribute to peace and harmony in society? Or perhaps it would be better to do something quite different, to say, "Those forces that won the election have the right to represent themselves proportionally." Let the President choose from them and give it to the Supreme Council. I understand that this is a difficult question for you because the President is representing you. But you're still a national MP today, and you haven't made your credentials. So you have the right to answer the questions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u99	Thank you very much, dear colleague Yuri Anatolyovich. You asked the right question and said that we were already working together for the second time. And you and I have passed a law on the basis of which the President is running for office, which is done. And you and I have passed a law that the Supreme Council personally, by every candidature, expresses itself in favour or opposition. So today’s decisions will be directed to answer your question: Who is worthy of being a member of the CLTC and who, unfortunately, is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u100	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would like to find out your opinion on collecting signatures to support the candidate, in support of a candidate for President of Ukraine. We know that there are differences of opinion on this matter. Some claim that this does not justify the gathering of signatures, while others claim that money should be made sure, and so on. Please tell me, from your point of view, from your experience, what you need to do to make the signature assembly really the will of the people who sign there, not something else that we've talked about in our MP environment over and over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u102	Thank you very much, colleague. The signatures are being collected according to the President's Election Act that you and I have adopted. We've had a lot of suggestions and other draft laws, but unfortunately, these elections that will take place this year are not accepted and are not law and law changes. According to the convention of signatures and our attitude to this, I think it should be free will, and we, if you trust us to be members of the CLTC, will all make an effort to make it as you said in the question, free will and as it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u103	Yuri Lucenko instead of Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u104	Yuri Lucenko, Socialist faction. I have a question, not for the applicant, but for the Chief. Vladimir Mikhailovich, ask you a question. The point is, the documents we're given don't have a statement on Mr. Zaplatinski's income. In this regard, his candidacy cannot be considered. We don't know who we're dealing with. Rather, we guess who we're dealing with because we get three orders in one year, and it was a year when energy-generating companies were just selling, we got a pretty clear connection between that. But in view of the fact that the documents are in writing, Mr. Plattinski today cannot be put to the vote. And one more request to the Bureau: given the careful attention of the faction of the SDPI(o) to the fight against anti-Semitism, I ask that we declare the nationality of all candidates for the CSF so that we do not engage in this disgraceful phenomenon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I'm looking at these documents right now. But the committee didn't issue any warnings. If necessary, we can pick up the documents of our colleague as we are in the administration of the personnel and give it to the national MPs. I'm going to ask you to do it now. Huh? Well, they say they all were. Now technically, please search and consider this question. Yes, please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But given our utmost respect for the Rules, I point out that five minutes is exhausted — and I take my question off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u107	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please sit down. Kachur Igor Anatoliyovich. Sign up for a question to Igor Anatoliovich Kachura. On the board, please have a name. Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u108	Tell me, please, how do you think your professional level, your last biography gives you the opportunity, personally, not to anyone without any reference, but to say, "In principle, I'm willing to work as a member of the Central Electoral Commission, I understand the legislation, I know what state we're building, and what should I do for it personally?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u110	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u111	My understanding as a candidate for the Central Electoral Commission's work in this area is to really understand how important this work is. It has to do with the fate of each state: the election of the President, the national deputies, the holding of referendums. Because I've been working for the last seven years directly to decide the fate of people -- whether as a prosecutor or as an acting judge -- and I know how responsible it is to put my signature on any procedural document: whether it's a decision or a verdict -- by depriving a person of his will, by deciding on the problems of not paying wages or other wages. I have no problem understanding how responsible this job is. And I think I have a full moral right to be a candidate for CBC membership.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u112	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU (o).
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Igor Anatoliyovich, first of all, I welcome the CBC with a young man there. This is, of course, great, because you have and will have some fresh view of CBC. Please tell me you knew that you would be represented by the Supreme Council for election. Do you, in fact, have any views of your work, or perhaps, of your work as a lawyer, as a senior assistant prosecutor, as a judge of the Podil district court. After all, you had to consider such matters as the elections. I mean, are you ready to come to the first C.V.C.C. meeting or to make some good, normal, young, fresh proposals?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. Honourable deputies, the specific work of the Central Electoral Commission, its features, the nuances, I don't know. However, given that decisions are taken collectively and among the candidates, the members of the CLTC are people who are familiar with the electoral process, I will listen to these thoughts. But I leave the right to express a separate opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u115	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Igor Anatolyovich, I'm interested in your rapid growth, as this rocket goes at such a speed straight into space, so your growth goes professional. In 1997, you're still a student, and after, as it were, from a student party, you're now a senior assistant prosecutor of the Cave District Attorney's Office, and you've been a judge for over a year and a half. I wonder what kind of political power pulls you so far into your ears that you grow so well, I don't know, you're going to have quite a career. So what I'm wondering is, how do you feel about when political power and, or whatever else, is being made up for its political party representative, and who is this political power that is working so hard on you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. As for my rapid growth in the D.A.'s office, I'd like to add that the D.A.'s system came from an intern, an assistant prosecutor, a senior assistant prosecutor and an investigator. As far as my political affiliation is concerned, to this day I have never been a member of any party, never stopped my activity in the Office of the Prosecutor or in the courts in connection with the election or the one-maned or any political party. I'm not a member of any party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u118	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u119	Dear speaker! That's my question. You're not surprised that the president has only offered representatives of the political forces or those who are oriented towards the political forces of the Presidential and the KPU? Do you think that the CTC can work objectively and unattractively in this configuration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. I feel an exclusive political emphasis on the question. I would like to point out that I have expressed my wish at the President's proposal for my candidacy and have never met any members of the CLTC, and I have met in committee procedure to date. The CLTC Act defines the activities of each member of the CLTC. And there are factors for discharge from positions in connection with violations of any legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u121	Thank you. Please sit down, Igor Anatolyovich. Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Please sign up for Sergio Vasilovich. On the board, please have a name. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear Sergey Vasilovich! With regard to your candidature in the legal environment, stormy waves are coming. Some view you as an extremely high - quality person, while others deny it, and so do they. And my question is. Please tell us, from your personal point of view, what do you have to do to make such stormy waves stop, and you can honestly and consistently tell us, the Ukrainian National Deputies, what will this matter be closed and you will do honestly the Constitution and the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u123	Thank you. You know, the work at the Supreme Council of Justice must have been the most ungrateful. All the time I worked at the Supreme Council of Justice, there were as many questions as I had to ask, how many times I had been approached, it probably wasn't for all my legal work before I was both a teacher and a senior teacher, and so on. The dean, and the president of the teaching work, and the Rector of the Legal Institute, the Rector of the Academy, and here's what she's doing, she's probably the most ungrateful, because everything about the judicial system today, I don't think anyone in this room needs to explain, in this room we need to accept, I think my colleagues will take whatever it takes to change the judicial system in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u124	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u125	Dear Sergey Vasilevich, what you have with your education is that you have both experience and experience in the Supreme Council of Justice. This is certainly positive. However, you are absolutely right when you say that so far there have been a lot of questions to the judiciary and, including after the elections, I know that there has been a whole flow of complaints, appeals, all of this has been considered, so to speak, coming from you too. So, if you'll excuse me, I have a question, basically, two questions. First. Do you think the experience of the Supreme Council of Justice will be useful for you to work on the Central Electoral Commission? In what capacity? And the second question. As you think, in all the conversations, all the claims that can be filed today. You are personally the effort, the pressure that comes upon you in the council of justice, whether you can stand to see the CLTC's case go smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u126	You know, as far as the Supreme Council of Justice is concerned, I did not, in any case, allow for any violation. And I think that if you trust me, choose a member of the Central Electoral Commission, I will work as I did in the Supreme Council of Justice. The only thing is that I will give the President of the Ukrainian Maritime Party the authority to be extra-partisan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u127	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, you mentioned the naval party, and I mentioned the speeches of many national deputies on the proportional representation of the political forces on the Central Electoral Commission. Maybe you're going to say very briefly about the success of the maritime party in the political arena and your legislative initiatives, and you're going to answer another question, and you're going to ask it, how do you think it's going to be, what size do you have to form, what are the methods of forming the President's personal election funds? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u129	Everything about your question is taken into account and provided for in the CTC Act. Everything else, what needs to be added, what needs to be resolved is that the problems that arise today with the formation of the district commissions, the district commissions, of course, need to be refined. Moreover, I would like to say that we have little attention, in any event, to the Central Electoral Commission and the People's Deputies, on the work of the district commissions to elect members of the local councils. I think, in addition to coordination, it may be necessary to introduce a rule to coordinate the work of the local district commissions on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u130	Yes, Sergey Vasilovich, sit down, your time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u132	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please sign up for Prince Ruslan Petrovich. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I ask you to answer my next question. What you need to do from your point of view is to ensure that the electoral commissions, not only in the central, but in the district, and in the district, are proportionally represented by the leading political forces, not by random parties. For example, there is space, aerodynamic, medical, and so forth. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u134	Thank you so much for asking. The point is that it is only Parliament's right to determine what the procedure should be for the formation of district and district election committees. And here, they say, CBC is a law enforcement body, not a right-wing body. As the lawmaker determines, so we will do. The other thing is that I can say my own position about the party representation in general in district and district election committees. The fact is that such a thesis has the right to exist. As the experience of past electoral campaigns, particularly in the election of national deputies, has shown, only with regard to the election of national MPs, perhaps even local elections. As for the President's election, there's a question here, because not all candidates are party. Or there may be candidates who are self - elevating or from the constituencies of the electorate. Because they are not violating the right of candidates to participate in the electoral process equally. This time. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that during the last election campaign, I can also say this openly, we have a rather unique situation in Ukraine, when the political forces, more specifically, political parties were, on the one hand, election campaign organizers, because they formed election committees, on the other hand, electoral campaign entities, and on the third hand, also supervisors, i.e. they had the right to observe election campaigns. That is, political parties have the right to assume full political responsibility for the results of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u135	Nestor Schufric, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Ruslan Petrovich, you're already a member of the Central Electoral Commission with a great deal of experience, you've been working at the CBC during the mandates of the previous, I hope, your future colleagues. That's my question. According to you, the law on the election of national MPs is final, and they are not to be charged. It is verified, is it still necessary to allow, under Ukraine's law, for candidates to be tried by the national courts of appeal, including the Supreme Court of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u137	Thank you for asking. The thing is, once again, it's the legislator's job to determine. Once the legislator has determined in the Civil Procedure Code that it must be just such a legal order, our business is to do. The other thing is, I think it's the right decision, let's say, the Constitutional Court, which has recently been annulled as one of those terms for filing a complaint and considering a complaint to the Central Electoral Commission on the outcome of the electoral campaign on the day of the vote and the summary of the vote. As for what you're saying, it's already a matter of legislation. If you make that change, we'll do it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u138	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u139	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, it is remarkable that a person at the age of 30 may become a member of the CBC. I wish you could do that. But because you have real practical experience, please tell me your proposal, your opinion that it is necessary to enact legislation in order for the electoral process to develop properly, that the Central Electoral Commission and the Central Electoral Commission are normal and that everything on the ground is normal. Is that what you think? And, most importantly, maybe it's not even the opinion that you're willing to have that, do you have any work to do with the Supreme Council on this issue that we're dumping our legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u140	Thank you so much for asking. In part, the secretary of the Central Electoral Commission, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich, who said that during this term of office of the Central Electoral Commission, we have a rather serious layer of work in this area. The fact is, unfortunately, the Central Election Commission does not have the right to legislative initiative defined by the Constitution. But on the other hand, the Central Election Commission law allows us to make proposals in order to improve electoral legislation. As experience has shown, we actively, indeed, took advantage of this right, and the vast majority of our proposals were taken into account by both the committee of profile and the Supreme Council, and they became part of the electoral laws. I mean, first of all, the so-called technological side of elections, not political affairs. It's a matter of parliament. And with regard to election technology, I think we need to take a closer look at the thinking of professionals, the suggestions made by the Central Election Commission. And the law that was passed, by which the Supreme Council was elected in 2002, I believe that it is technologically the most perfect, that it can be taken as a framework law and, in accordance with it, to make any proposals to all other laws, bring them to them. to codify, because they may not even agree on each other, but I think at least a term of election can be done together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u141	Alexander Petrovich, thank you. You can't tell us everything one time. Please sit down for a while. Ohio's Mikhailo Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, while Mikhailo Volodymyrovich is on his way to the rostrum, please sign up for a question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, the constituency of our Ukraine. Please tell us, Your Honor, how can you get into a closed list of applicants where you've just gone? I know a thousand people who have a more solid service list, who have more merit in front of the state, but people can't get on that list. Tell us a secret, perhaps you. I don't have any claim to you personally, I just want to understand how, at that age, you can face the President, how you can earn such a great honor to get the rank of minister in this state right now. And I want to understand if you have to go through some sort of ladder then? Tell us how democracy is brewing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u143	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that, to my profound conviction, and to this list, which is now under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to other positions in the authorities of the State in Ukraine, you can go under the law. That's exactly how I became a candidate for the Central Election Commission. I got this offer from the Human Resources Administration of the President of Ukraine. After considering this offer, I accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u144	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u145	Dear colleague, I'd like to address you so much. When you come to the district and the relationship between one and the other majors and those on the political party lists begins, the vast majority of voters claim that those who have gone through major districts have chosen themselves. That's what you think you might do, and what can you do to help the legislators in order to ensure that the electoral laws don't have these gaps and loopholes when people might claim that the MPs have chosen themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u146	You know, from the point of view of my experience with the practical application of Ukrainian electoral legislation, I believe that this legislation is capable of being a reliable tool for the realization and protection of the electoral rights of citizens, on the one condition: that it is respected by all the participants in the electoral process. And it is in order to ensure that this condition is fulfilled within the competence of a member of the Central Electoral Commission that I will see my primary responsibility if I am elected to the post.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u147	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u148	Dear Mikhail Volodymyrovich, I have a few such questions. In your time, you've had, here's "work in the past," you're describing that you worked as Head of Legal Affairs, Vice President of the National Television Company of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. Do you think that your influence in the use of the black pianist has been sufficient, and as a lawyer, you have responded? And the next question. Did you, as a lawyer, have to consider complaints about the dungeons, or were there such conflicts in the dungeons, or do we know that there were such cases as you, as a lawyer, as you reacted? Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u149	I thank you for that question. I mean, first of all, as Head of Legal Affairs and later Vice-President of the National Television Company of Ukraine, I was responsible for legal and international issues and its activities. With regard to the legal issues of the company’s activities arising from the public authorities ’ disclosure, I want to say that everything has always taken place exclusively within the framework of the law on how public authorities and local authorities should be informed, the media. If the country’s distinguished national deputies mention it, the announcement by the National Television Company of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2002 did not give rise to any complaints. Everything was in line with the agreements made and clearly within the limits established by law and the corresponding decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u150	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Your Honor, I'm here with you. I'll have a question for you. I think that you, as a legal scientist, have met with this example on several occasions when members of the electoral boards working on committees have suffered some damage. And I know so many examples, and then when I go to the Central Electoral Commission and other low-level structures, they didn't find support in making up for the damage, etc. Do you think this problem should be solved in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u152	Of course, I think that this issue requires regulatory regulation. I believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to pay sufficient attention in the future. If properly regulated, the Central Election Commission will respond accordingly to similar cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u153	Thank you, Michael Volodymyrovich. Have a seat. Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich, to the rostrum, please. Dear colleagues! Sign up for a question to Bronislav Stanislavovich. On the board, please explain the names of the national MPs. Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u154	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Bronislav Stanislavovich! I understand that the position that you're going to take is very important, very difficult, doodling work, but there's no way to ask your future colleagues a question, so I'm asking you. As you think. Is there a serious approach on the part of the President, the Presidential Administration, in the formation of candidates for the Central Electoral Commission, when we are looking at two young people who have absolutely no experience who were not even members of the Supreme Council, and we recommend them today to the Central Election Commission? How do you take this seriously or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u155	Thank you for asking. I mean, we all started off, not all became ministers and others at once, so to speak, high-ranking officials or positions. Everyone started their work with something. And I can't talk about the business qualities of any candidate because I didn't work with them, I don't know them personally. And if recommended, I think he deserves to be this candidate for this great post, a member of the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u156	Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u158	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u159	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Bronislav Stanislavovich, be kind, that kind of question. To what extent does this group of future members of the Central Electoral Commission fit into the so-called constitutional reform of our state. Because we all understand here that the main test of the President's selection of candidates to the Central Election Commission was the ability to ensure that either the President or Leonid Kuchma himself, or the candidate from his environment, is elected. Say, please, honestly and frankly, as you swore to the Head of State for this strategic part of the task of the Central Election Commission of the future?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u160	Well, first of all, I want to tell you that I haven't met the President, and I haven't sworn to anyone. I've prepared the appropriate documents. You got them today. I agree that if you choose me to be a member of the Central Electoral Commission, and what touches the constitutional process today is in your hands. You're taking laws. You're making changes to the Constitution that you're going to adopt, that's what the Constitution is going to be today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u161	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u162	Thank you. Bronislav Stanislavovich, we've worked with you on a previous call. You have a lot of work experience. You're a lawyer by profession. You've made choices over and over and over and over again, you've experienced all the pros and cons of electoral legislation. First of all, I want to thank you for answering the profoundly unethical and not correct questions of my colleagues. You don't get mad at them, you know them as well as I do, not the first year. By the way, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, those MPs who demand that nationality be called here, I'd advise you to get a psych consult, because there's no such requirement for nationality. [[Applause]] Would you please be pleased with the organization of district and district committees? Do you have any suggestions for today with a view to making any comments about improving the work of district and district committees, considering that future elections for your destiny are extremely difficult?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u163	Thank you for asking. Indeed, today, from my point of view, it is necessary to improve existing legislation, both electoral and active legislation, because all those who today face this electoral process, especially district commissions, are given a great right by the law, but not always the members of the commission carry out their duties or the right conferred on them by their law. Well, I know these cases where in the process of registering candidates, whether they are being examined, or any other application by candidates, the members of the electoral commission are taking a second position, voting against, meaning they're doing the will there, or the authority, or the party that gave, so to speak, the order to withdraw that candidate. I think it is necessary to settle this issue in legislation once, so that each member of the electoral commission can act within the framework of the law, be empowered to have appropriate and appropriate responsibilities before the law, be responsible for the fact that his people or the party have sent and carried out the duties that he is required to perform under the law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u164	Thank you, Bronislav Stanislavovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u166	Styczynski Bronislav Stanislavovic is invited to the rostrum. Please sign up for the question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u167	Thank you. Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party. Please tell me, how do you see in perspective the battle against the fundamental evil that violates all democratic principles in the election: is this, so-called, administrative resource that affects you, that is, it will affect you, and it will affect you, both regional and all other commissions, by twisting your hands, demanding your results?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u168	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, if each member of the Central Electoral Commission, as well as the members of the District and District Electoral Commissions, would first stand up for the rules of law, then no administration can influence the results of the elections. I think as I step out of the Central Elections Commission Act, I see that all decisions are taken by open vote. All political forces and parties that participate in the electoral process are entitled to attend the Central Electoral Commission meetings. The decisions of the Central Electoral Commission may be brought before a court. So today there is a legislative mechanism to ensure that the decisions of the Central Electoral Commission, as well as decisions of other lower-level electoral committees, are taken within the framework of current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u169	Kosinov, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u170	Kosinov, 170th District, Harkov City. Dear Bronislav Stanislavovich, you have a great deal of legal experience. And I know you as a principled person when you were the first Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine. Please tell me, in your opinion, what should be the first place to fill and resolve the legislative gap with regard to the work of the Central Electoral Commission and the work of the District Electoral Commissions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u171	Thank you. Well, I may not be able to give a full assessment of the Central Elections Commission Act today, in general, about the election of national deputies, because I haven't been directly involved in this legislation lately. But I want to say, even in the drafting of the Central Election Commission Act, which the Ministry of Justice had, directly, participated, and here we presented this law on committees and on the Supreme Council. They came out of the fact that not all had been done, and the Supreme Council might have adopted a law that did not fully meet the legal requirements that exist today. So I think that all the proposals that there are and that there will be, and given the opinion of the deputy corps, can be formulated into a draft relevant legal and regulatory document, submitted to the Supreme Council and thus, at the legislative level, decided to take down all the issues that exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u172	People's MP Kulczynski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u173	Mikola Kulczynski, People's Movement, "Our Ukraine." You're a well-deserved lawyer, and it's a good thing that the members of the CBC will have such powerful scientific footage, but I'd like to ask. Have you ever had moments of direct participation in electoral processes? And that's one question. The second question. How purely human do you feel about proportional elections in the regions and in the city authorities of local self-government?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u174	Thank you for asking. I can say that I did not take part directly in election campaigns; I was not a member of the Supreme Council or of local councils. So, only on a level, they say, is a participant in the electoral process that voted on its own. And the second question I would answer is that the proportional system, I think, in my opinion, it could only have a place at the level of, in general, the state. As for local self-governance, I would still support it to be either mixed or major. Thank you. Yes, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u175	Boris Oilynik, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u176	Thank you. Igor Viktorovich, of course I will vote for you, because you have the sweetest service list. And obviously you have quite a good experience and work in the parties. Let's say you were at the Rycoma Party, the Company, then. They weren't, they were, they're written here. And then you were in the Liberal Party. The only thing I have is, so I'd like to, what's different, so tell me, what is liberalism? Because I have to choose you and be the head of the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u177	I'd like to answer your question, thank you for that. So liberalism I understand as a lawyer is just in the sense that everyone has to comply with the rules of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u178	Time's up, Bronislav Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u179	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u180	Pusher Igor Viktorovich is invited to the rostrum. In the meantime, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u181	Igor Viktorovich, please tell me, when you look at your biography, you can see that you were involved in the legislative process as an assistant consultant to the People's Deputy. If possible, a little more detail, whose assistant were you and what was the specialization of your boss's activities and you as an assistant to the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u182	I'm Assistant People's Deputy, Lissin Nikolai Pavlovich. He carried out the tasks he gave me. That is, the points that relate to his direct parliamentary activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u183	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u184	Dear Igor Viktorovich, I know you personally and I will vote for you. You've got a lot of life experience. At the same time, there was no legal education. Don't you think you need to fill that gap?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u185	Thank you for asking. I'm actually doing it in a kind of way. I have three lawyers in my family: my wife is a science candidate and my two sons are also lawyers. So we're gonna take some family advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u186	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u187	Thank you. You didn't tell me if your neighbors had lawyers yet. I want to pass it on to my colleague Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u188	Oleg Zarubinsky, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Igor Viktorovich! You know, I either didn't hear it, or there's really a noise in the room. You're an assistant consultant to what national MP, and from what faction? That's my first question. Tell me exactly which faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u190	Lissina Mikoli Pavlovich, of the Faction of the SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u191	Thank you. And now I have that question. You know, I have a lot of consulting assistants, and they're professional lawyers, and there's a lot of consulting assistants in our faction. Please tell me, how will you implement your legal capacity? That's the first question. And the second question. What did you do, as an assistant consultant to the People's Deputy, technology, engineering and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u192	As for the first question, I can say that I have some experience in the electoral process. In 1998, I was the representative of the electoral bloc of the Liberal Party and the Labour Party of the Central Electoral Commission, and in 2002, I was one of the party's trustees in a multi-mandatory state district. With regard to his work with the national deputy, his assignments were fulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u193	Vladimir Nechiporuk, members of the People's Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u194	Thank you. Tell me, please, you'll be in your line of work if you're chosen, I think you'll be chosen, you'll be using the law, or will you be using instructions, say, today's national MP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u195	Of course, it's the law. Because, like all members of the electoral commission, if it is your will, I will take an oath and do it conscientiously.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u196	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u197	Your Honor! I took a look at your biography. Honestly, I don't have any pretenses. But I don't see a list of your printed works. For example, in Kiwalov, number 62 of the printed work, there is this article: "The communication with Kuchma enriches public thinking." I have a question for you: do you view this as scientific or science fiction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u198	Unfortunately, I'm not familiar with this job, I can't give her an evaluation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u199	Yes, Valery Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u200	Please pass the word Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u201	National MP Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u202	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, with all due respect for your service activities, please tell me that your education does not meet the criteria and principles that are applied to the members of the Central Electoral Commission. The President's representative, when presenting the President's nominations for approval, said that the main criterion of selection was the professional approach, here. Well, I think that the training for a member of the Central Electoral Commission is actually to be legal education, because the workload and demands of the Central Electoral Commission and the fact that our country is not legal, so a lot will depend on legal qualifications. You have an education engineer. Please give me an answer. And do not refer to family members or neighbors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u203	Well, first of all, the law determines the number of lawyers to be in the Central Electoral Commission, it provides that the head, deputy and secretary should have a higher legal education. Then I can assure you that I will not claim these positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u204	Yeah, time's up. Please sit down, Igor Viktorovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please state on board the names of the national MPs who are registered. 30 minutes as agreed. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. None. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u205	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. In considering the appointment of a new Central Electoral Commission, it is impossible to avoid the silence of the previous composition, headed by Michael Ryabc, who has been appointed twice. In general, he justified the President's trust, as he did everything to elect the President for a second term and to the Parliament for those who held the power of the President. This is reflected in many of the unsatisfactory work of the Central Electoral Commission, both institutionally and in the resolution of contentious issues arising from the election, in the handling of complaints and claims from places. All recent elections of the President and Parliament were not organized, with major violations of the Electoral Act. The Central Electoral Commission did not ensure adequate and timely monitoring of the preparation of the electoral commissions and the creation of voting conditions. All the shortcomings that were not listed were not pre-empted by the Central Electoral Commission and were reluctant to suggest that all these were created specifically to make it easier to violate the rules of secret ballots. It is easier to catch fish in murky water. And it's amazing that no one took any responsibility. The processing and calculation of the results of the vote in the CEC was unduly delayed, delayed for a long time and, as a rule, the results changed dramatically to the very end. For example, in the electoral district number 102, the town of Zámenka, where the Communist Olga Zhazna was involved, was shown the result of her victory. But two days later, Zacnyna was in second place, apparently because it was a computer system error that did not record the late results from just one region of Kirovograd. Although the delay in counting votes in our computer age has no excuse. Or such an example of insidious technology developed by the President's Administration in the silent observation of the Centre. This withdrawal from the registration of candidates at the latest so that the victim fails to pass all the courts, as was the case with Kalchenko Valeri Mihajlović, former Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kirovograd. Today, we are re-electing the Central Electoral Commission, and the work will continue, as before, on the road that the President will guide. The person who agrees to chair the CEC condemns himself in this system of power to deal with the conscience, that is why this post is never offered to the communists. Because they know that the communist will be honest, decent at any pressure from above. This will continue until Ukraine becomes a parliamentary republic. There is simply no other way to reach democracy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u206	Thank you. Please, instead of the Turkish School. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, when you analyze the activities of the previous CEC, the main conclusion to be drawn was that it was entirely dependent on the President's Administration, the executive branch. Many examples can be cited. And what we did in our time, for example, was we held 226 congregations of initiative groups to hold the President's impeachment. But none of these congregations were recognized by the Central Election Commission. There have been many examples during the last campaign, when insolent authorities used administrative power to buy demonstration votes. Unfortunately, the CEC did not draw any conclusions from this. But, dear fellows, when you listen to the question that we're considering today, I have such a sad forecast. We can refer to the past CTC as an example of democracy and objectivity. I think a lot of people in this room are convinced that it's the Central Election Commission that the authorities want to make it a tool of conservation. Saving a valid mode in Ukraine. And that's why today's C.V.C.I. is the problem of its illegality. The President's Administration has made a situation in which we are forced to violate the Central Electoral Commission law today and change two-thirds of its composition. Although, I would like to remind you, by law, you can't change CBC more than a third over a year. The President's Administration was aware of the situation in which 11 of the 15 members of the CTC worked illegally, i.e. more than six years for which they were elected. Well, the main problem, the honourable colleagues certainly had a lot of bills, was a lot of initiatives. To make the CLTC independent, impartial, a simple step had to be taken: the representation of the CLTC must correspond to the representation of the political forces in the Supreme Council and their political influence in society. Instead, we see that today's proposals, the staff proposals for the CLTC are in line with the interests of the purely presidential majority. And in order for the 100 percent vote to take place, there were two representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine who would not have an impact on the process, but who would now ensure a vote without question. Dear colleagues, I think that the CTC, which today will elect the presidential majority, is unlikely to work, unfortunately, objectively. Prejudice in its actions can be predicted immediately. Moreover, this Central Election Commission can lead to a serious political and civil crisis in society during future presidential elections. That's why our faction of Julia Tymoshenko's block is not going to vote for this composition of the CBC. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u208	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u209	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Today you are asked to adopt actual draft decrees not to appoint members of the Central Electoral Commission, specific persons, and I would call it otherwise: not to admit to the office of President of the opposition, and we will no longer specify anyone: either Victor Yushchenk or anyone else. One of the political forces will receive political bribes to ensure that what is offered today passes. I agree with the many positions expressed today both by the Puzakov people's representative and by the Turkish people's deputy. I would like to emphasize once again that everyone knows and remembers that trying to throw away outside the political process, which is certainly the election of members, the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission of a bloc for which more than 25 percent have given up, and all the other is the wickedness of the Central Electoral Commission, "Our Ukraine," no representative to be included in the Central Election Commission is evil, it is not otherwise to be called. You can talk about a candidate today, more than she deserves to be elected. We have seen the principle of the approach of the President of Ukraine to this important position. The principle is: mechanic, engineer, lover -- to be on the board -- there is absolutely no other principle. So no matter what we say, but until there is a proportional representation of the political forces, until a normal legal approach is applied to the selection of personnel and professional selection, until this election commission is in line with the protection of the interests of the oligarchic clans. What should we then say about election technology? Who should we talk to about the introduction of transparent boxes if no one wants to be transparent? How can it be today when the Council of Europe is seriously studying this issue of the illegality of choosing Kuchma at a time when he has not gone to the final part of the election and everything else has been framed? How will the Central Electoral Commission act in this situation? How will it coexist with this society? So, honourable national MPs, I would like to step out of the professional, qualified approach, from a general political perspective, to be allowed representatives of the opposition forces, this is also our Ukraine, and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, without it, I think the election of the CWC will be illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u210	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, honourable representatives of the media, dear fellow countrymen, today in a sense, we have to form the Central Electoral Commission in such a way that it is on the watch of the Constitution and the law, even the bourgeois Constitution of bourgeois law, but that there is not the crazy saviour that we have seen in previous elections and that can take place now if there is only one political force within such a commission. So in response to the hints of a representative of a famous political power that is now fluctuating between Ukraine and the United States, I want to say that the Communists went and proposed their candidates to the CWC for the very purpose of balancing the political influences and doing everything in order for such a commission to work on the Constitution, which is also the electoral legislation that there is. That's the first one. The second thing I would like to pay attention to is those members of the electoral commission voted for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First, be on guard against forging signatures from the start of the electoral campaign. In 1999, this was the very beginning of mass counterfeiting. Some candidates for a candidate in gymnasiums and in various undergrounds left and right handwritten these lists in support of the challenger, and when the tour took place, compared to the number of signatures collected, such heroes of our country only obtained 1, 2, 3 percent of the votes. This is the face of this bourgeois democracy. After that, political leaders offered their representatives to the election boards district, district, and so on. And there, using their absolute advantage in comparison with other political forces, ruled their own disgraceful ball. So I'm asking you, colleagues, let's do everything we have at the time to make changes and additions to electoral legislation, to remove this fundamental very important flaw. And to those members of the electoral commission who will be elected to stand guard over the Constitution and the law, and let us wish them fruitful work for the benefit of our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u212	Dear National Deputies! A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Then we'll continue the discussion. Mikola Rudzkowski will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Rudzkowski Mikola has the floor. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready, nigger. There's no Black guy?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u214	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a crucial day. Today, the Central Election Commission, Mikhail Mikhailovich Ryabc, concludes its story. The history of the Central Election Commission, which forged several consecutive elections. You remember Major Melnick's records, where Leonid Danilovich Kuchma asked Michael Rybc: "So how much did you actually vote for Frost?" I'm now addressing the applicants, the Central Election Commission: "Keep your conscience in such a way that, as in the proverb "the hidden one is once made manifest," there is no need to hide anything. Act according to the law, the Elections Act, and abide by other laws, do your duties with dignity and dignity." Once again, after reviewing this list submitted to the Supreme Council, I did not notice representatives from the Socialist Party. Again, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma presented the representatives of the Communist Party and representatives who offered the factions of the majority, mainly the SPDU. I'm talking to the communists and most representatives not to support part of the proposed candidates and to allow the Central Election Commission to submit to the Central Election Commission the nomination of the Socialists, our Ukraine's candidate, the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, and to form in the future Central Election Commission in accordance with the adopted law, on a proportionate basis. Alexander Alexander Moroz proposed such a law. He's been on the Supreme Council for six months. That is why I ask, during the vote, that we be able to present our candidacy in a new way. We have previously nominated the former and now the national deputy of Jeliaškević, the secretary of the Chupachin faction, but once again the President's Administration has not included them in today's consideration. What can be considered as preparing again for falsification of the following successive elections? We socialists insist that our candidacy be presented and considered. And we believe that the question of the formation of the Central Election Commission in a year of presidential elections is crucial to the democratization of society. If you, the Bolsheviks, speak for democracy, you should be represented on the Central Electoral Commission by representatives of all the political forces, including, and above all, the opposition, because democracy is that each party has its own representatives to control the holding and organization of the presidential elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u215	Yes, Valery Pavlovich Desertouvetenko, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Get ready for the Hapochki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u216	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The moment has come when we really have to prepare for the 2004 presidential, parliamentary elections in 2006, which hopefully will take place on a proportional system, that is, on the political party lists, and on the local councils and heads of our cities. I want to say that in due course in the Ukrainian Parliament, when parliamentary groups and factions began to form, there were MPs and factions with the initiative that representatives of the Central Electoral Company were necessarily representatives of all parliamentary groups and factions in Parliament. The People's Democratic Party, given that we need to unite in the state, to make democratic transformations, supported this project earlier and moved forward. We have submitted a nomination from the People's Democratic Party to the Central Electoral Commission, which is not included in these documents. Then I personally wrote a letter to the President of Ukraine, to the Head of the Supreme Council, to exclude the candidate of the People's Democratic Party from the Central Electoral Commission. This position is not supported. Therefore, the faction of the People's Democratic Party will not vote on the candidates submitted by the President of Ukraine. I want to say good-bye to everyone right in front of them. I respect you all as professionals, as lawyers, just like people. But there is a position. There can be no number of 300,000 people in our society today. And Minust concluded on the very branched network of party organizations, even for the NDP, it was a surprise, we thought that some political parties had a more developed network. And not to take our position on the Central Electoral Commission into account, I think it's wrong, it's unethical. That is why we will not take part in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u217	Mikola Hapoczka, National Choice MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you with a big request and an understanding, and I want to find you on a question that I want to make to you today. First of all, I apologize, I apologize to the faction of the Communists for my destructive position, so to speak, but I have to say it. I want to increase the majority with which the People's Choice Group has been working for almost two years. And at the very responsible moments, it was constructive in making the decisions that were needed to resolve those fundamental political decisions. I'd like to ask everyone in this room to support the People's Choice Group and not to support the vote of a candidate from Donchenk Yuri, who, through two previous calls, two and three, worked in Luhansk, worked destructively. All the people in that region who worked very hard and tried to improve the situation in the area, who did everything they could to make it better for miners and rural workers, he did everything in his destructive capacity to make no difference in Lugansk. This person is destructive in his behavior, in his assessment of the situation. And I want to warn all those people who don't listen to my voice that this will have consequences when he's elected as a member of the Central Commission. It is a person who will benefit from this position and to the detriment of those who will be put forward in the elections and in the Supreme, the second convocations. So I'm asking you all very much, there's no destructiveness in this. We'll support any second candidate that the communists will raise, we'll vote on the next Thursday, and that's not a destructive question. But I'd like to ask the whole majority to remind them that we've always been constructive, that we've always been supportive and that we've been making the decision that we needed in the course of this call. I would like, most of today's democratic forces! So I ask you all not to vote for Donchenk Yuri! This is our principled request to the majority and to all constructive forces! Respectfully, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u219	Dear National Deputies! All who signed up for the performance were given that opportunity. Question completed. May I have your attention, please? Invite the national MPs, we'll proceed to the vote now. Simónenko replica, please, because it was a faction. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u220	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you on the basis of the content of the last speech and the call to the National Deputies not to vote for the nomination we have presented, the faction of Communists, Yuri Grigorovitch Donchenk. I want to confirm once again that this is an educated person, a human principle, a person who has experience and many other positive qualities. What's the problem? Yes, and you, many of you here, know Yuri Grigorovich. What's the problem? They had a personal dispute, and they were considered by the national MP just before that, because he was not allowed to vote. But that's exactly what shows that Yuri Grigorovich Donchenko is a principled man, he's a consistent man, he's an honest man. There was no charge that he had violated the principles of the organization of work and the conduct of the national MP of the previous vocation. I'm asking everyone for your support. He is a worthy man, and he will be worthy to represent the Supreme Council on the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Bondik Valerija Anatoliyovich. [[12:41:32]] For 279 Decision taken. The factions, please. Yeah. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "When appointing a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich". [[12:42:26]] For 358 I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the appointment of a member of Donchenk Jury Grigorovich's Central Electoral Commission. [[12:42:54]] For 308. Decision taken. I'm voting on the Supreme Council's decision to appoint a member of the Central Election Commission of the Zavaljevska Valentina Alexandrovna. [[12:43:23]] For 374 Decision taken. I'm putting the bill to a vote. Out of procedure, please. Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u222	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am still addressing you. We don't have a declaration on our hands. What we were given is a declaration. [[Dry, don't scream! Dry, listen!]] What we were given is a 2002 declaration and it was signed in 2003. That's why I need a declaration under the Rules last year, and the past one is 2003. [[not for esdeks]] There's no such declaration on your hands. We can't vote now. There is no violation of such a declaration in the hands of MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Plastinski, a colleague of ours, says that he was anxious and wrote instead of 2003, he wrote 2002. Calm down, please. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. May I have your attention, Your Honor? I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to appoint a member of the Central Election Commission of the Plástinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich. [[12:45:15]] For 299 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Kachur Igor Anatoliyovich. [[12:45:45.]] For 346 Decision taken. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission Kiwalova Sergio Vasilovich. [[12:46:12]] For 346 Decision taken. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Prince Ruslan Petrovic. [[12:46:40]] For 368 Decision taken. I am putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of Ohdindov Mikhail Volodymirovic. [[12:47:08]] For-286 Decision taken. I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovic. [[12:47:35]] For 369 Decision taken. I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint a member of the Central Election Commission of Styczynski Bronislav Stanislavovic. Please vote. [[12:48:02]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Take it off, please. I am putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Tolčakov Igorovic. [[12:49:03]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to appoint members of the Central Electoral Commission, Bondik Valerija Anatoliyovich, Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, Donchenka Yuri Grigorovich, Zavalevska Valentina Alexandrovna, Zaplastinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Kachura Igor Anatoliyovich, Kiwalova Sergija Vasilovich, Kniazewicz Ruslan Petrovich, Ohio Mikhail Volodymirovich, Rajkowski Bronislav Stanislavovich. Let us welcome them and wish them the honest and conscientious discharge of our duties. Yes, the question is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Board meeting, we agreed, because we need to consider a lot of drafts, work until we've exhausted the meeting schedule. I'm voting on this proposal, and you're defining yourself. I am voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Board to continue working until we have done every day and today, including the schedule of meetings. Please vote, and I will announce the results of the vote. Please vote. [[12:50:36]] For 133 The factions, please. There are factions calling for me to announce. "Our Ukraine" as many as - Za - 4, "Regions of Ukraine" - 43, Communists - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine" - 40, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 1, "The People's Government" - 3, Socialist Party of Ukraine - 7, Yulia Timoshenko - 0, "Dem. Initiatives" - 7, Agrarian Party -13, "National Choice" - 1, NDP - 3, non-fractional - 11. Dear colleagues, then, don't insist that we don't insist on adding more bills, because we won't be able to look at them physically. [[let me finish.]] Out of procedure, please, Assadchev. Then Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u224	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, when you took the Rules into your hands, I knew you'd never followed him, but at least you've already held him. I thought that was a positive step. But now you've started raping the Supreme Council again. The plenary session is, if you'll excuse me, not a partisan, and you can't vote so hard that we don't know what time it is. We're ready to work. But you have to make a specific proposal -- you can vote for an hour and a half, for two. It's a plenary session and you can't, you know, make a clown out of it. So please make a specific proposal. We can go on for an hour, I think that's going to last for two. We just don't know what time it is. Each decision has legal status, and the plenary also has legal status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u225	Thank you. I just want to answer your questions, dear colleagues. I feel as if you're making a constant observation that you're not even a rule, you haven't held anything in your hands except for your own opinion. Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u226	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I suggest you put your proposal to the vote again, because many deputies have not been able to vote, but, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in order for you to compromise, let's say, continue your work by 20 hours. Two hours is enough for us to raise all the questions that really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u227	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the People’s Deputy Rudzikowski to continue our work for 20 hours. Please vote. [[12:53:22]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The draft Decree is announced for consideration. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's see, we'll lose less time. What's with the committee? Calm down. The draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Effectiveness of the Activities of State Administrations on the Resolution of the Set of Issues relating to the Withdrawal of the Chernobyl AES from Exploitation, the Implementation of a Plan of Action for Preservation Objects, and the Zone of Disposal, on the Treatment of Radioactive Wastes is under consideration. I beg of you, honourable national deputies, when you no longer agree to continue our work in agreement so that we can consider as many drafts as possible. Osika Sergey Grigorovich, please. What's the procedure? What question? Please, Kravchenko, while Osika goes, microphone. Kravchenko, I said while Osika comes, the Kravchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u228	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u229	Wait a minute, Sergey Grigorovich. Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u230	I don't want to distract you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u231	I'm sorry. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'm talking about Bill 4507 on the removal of drivers' rights. The fact is, ten million drivers are waiting for this law today. The vacancy suspended by the Prosecutor's Office today continues on the road. I addressed the last Conciliation Council at the end of that session, the Conciliation Council accepted it as the first priority. It didn't work. I've asked now to consider it among the first. Therefore, I strongly request that you put to the vote, after the division of decisions from the issues under discussion, first consider Law 4507. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, all the bills that have been passed today cannot be put in the first place. In order to consider them, it was agreed and the insistence was on the Conciliation Council that we should work until we consider all the bills. They didn't agree for an hour or two. We should have voted, and we would have considered all the questions. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u233	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. This is a decision that, if voted, will help us to clearly identify the system of government in CHAES. The point is, there's a lot of delays, there's a lot of delays, there's a lot of distance. In the last year, an interdisciplinary committee has been set up, something operational, so to speak, a meeting and so forth, and so forth. That is, the management system itself is very imperfect. So we propose to create this commission in order to create a clear and clear system of state administration in the "Hidden" facility and the alienation zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u234	Questions, please, for three minutes, please write down, dear colleagues. A brief question, and give a brief answer. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u235	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergei Grigorovich, I don't quite understand the essence of what you want to do. You are now in the majority, you have your own government, which you have appointed. You are now setting up a commission of inquiry to investigate some of the wrong actions of your government. I want it in terms of logic. And then what happened? As far as we know, commissions of inquiry are created on a case-by-case basis, not to investigate the effectiveness or inefficiency of government structures. For this there are days of government and other measures that can be taken. I want to understand what the authors are offering directly for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u236	Thank you. I think that's the first thing that investigators do, it's nowhere to say that they're created only by irregularity or irregularity. The point is to find out all of us together. Because, according to the draft document, all factions have the ability to send members to find out clearly the situation of the management system of two objects. And that's a concrete fact. If you're talking about the second fact, it's that there's a lot of delays in performing specific elements by, so to speak, objects and shelters and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u237	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u238	Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Dear Sergey Grigorovovich, in connection with the 17th anniversary of Chernobyl, took place right here in the session hall of parliamentary hearings, and the question of the relevance of the establishment of the state central authority on Chernobyl matters was raised. Now the question is being addressed in the working group at Azar and Tobacco. And what's more, there's this proposal: to set up a permanent interagency commission on Chernobyl and study all of these issues. Do you find it appropriate to consider the issues you have raised on this committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u239	Thank you. That committee you're talking about is asking too much questions. It raises questions about all of Chernobyl’s problems, not just Chaes and not just the alienation zone. We put a hose on. I think they're intertwined, and I think if we do, we'll work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u240	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u241	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, the faction certainly supports your offer, but I have a personal question for you. So it turns out, your faction and you, including you, are acting in double standards. When the law was passed on to the Interim Investigation Commissions, which would give them the right to work for the investigating commissions. And who you are, your faction didn't vote, and you don't. Doesn't it seem to you that, after taking such an initiative, you're personally and your faction was the initiator of the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions, which would enable you to work effectively? How do you view it? And stop playing double standards. Thank you. It's your wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u242	I'll tell you honestly and frankly, especially to you, because I have a very deep sympathy for you. You know, our grief and our happiness are the goddamn politics that has double, triple, other standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u243	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valentina Petrovna, this had to wait until the questions were asked to tell you what sympathy you had. Couldn't have said it sooner, right? Please, a co-reporter. The word for the report is given by the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, George Solomatine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u244	Thank you. [[Secretary of the Committee]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the effectiveness of the activities of the public administrations regarding the solution of a set of issues related to: the first-ever exit of the Chernobyl AES from the operation. And we remember with you in this room, which are turbulent, controversial discussions in this regard two years ago. The second is the introduction of a plan for the implementation of actions on the “Hiddenness”, the famous “Sip”, or new. .. And that's what the biggest controversy is about right now, because the Donors Assembly has raised over $600 million to make these efforts, but they're going to go to a godforsaken place. We've got representatives from mainly European companies and companies involved in this work, and our countrymen have eliminated the problem, and they're now, of course, dissatisfied and they're making some comments and suggestions in that they understand that the things that Western firms have offered don't match our perceptions, our standards and our predictions of what to do there. It's a very important problem. And the third. The alienation zone on radioactive waste management. A famous Vector object is being built, but when one French, if I'm not mistaken, the firm started building these objects there, one wall collapsed there. Therefore, the purpose of this project, which you have proposed, is to provide for the organization, for all the measurements, to meet the requirements of legislation on the relevant issues, and to prepare proposals for its implementation. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends the adoption of the bill. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting on November 27, 2003, reviewed the project and supported its adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our committee, please support the decision-making process. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u245	Thank you, sit down, please. George Carmazin takes the floor because he passed a draft decree on the inadmissibility of this decree, the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u246	The Party of Fatherland Defenders, the Solidarity of Victor Yushchenka's constituency "Our Ukraine". In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution, in the order of the legislative initiative, I propose a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the project, on the establishment of a provisional commission of inquiry on the verification, effectiveness and activities of the public administration. And it's explained that if Mr. Osika were in opposition, I would understand him, creating the next government commission is the task of opposition. But he represents the majority today. I recommend reading the Constitution, which establishes in article 6, that State authority is exercised on the basis of the principles of division, legislative, executive, and judicial authority. Neither the Constitution nor other laws of Ukraine, the Supreme Council has the authority to prohibit changes in the management of the alienation zone and the Chernobyl AES until the closure of the interim commission of inquiry with a view to creating conditions for an objective study of the state of affairs, as proposed in paragraph six of the draft decree. And apparently, that's the main reason for creating a temporary commission. There is also a discrepancy between the name of the decree and the purpose for which this temporary commission is created. The name of the commission of inquiry, the revision of the first paragraph, indicates that this commission is made up of questions about the verification and effectiveness of the activities of the public administrations regarding the resolution of a set of issues related to the output of the Chernobyl AES from operation. So it's not about the investigation, it's about the execution of the control functions, the preparation and the preliminary consideration of the issues. This is in line with part three of article 89 of the Constitution when it comes to the powers of the Provisional Special Commissions, not of the Commissions of Inquiry, or of part two of article 89, refer to the powers of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which carry out the legislative work, prepare and give prior consideration to the question of referring to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Committees, and in particular chapter two "Functions and Committee Powers" give them broad powers and opportunities to do the work for which the project authors are going to create this structure. According to the first part of Article 10 of the Committees Act, in the exercise of their functions, they have the right to monitor compliance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine with other legal acts adopted by the Supreme Council, to monitor the legality, economy and efficiency of the costs incurred by the State budget, to hear the first vice-premier, vice-premiers, ministers of Ukraine, heads of state committees, offices of other government executives and organizations of professional bodies, as well as local self-government bodies. The committees may hold joint meetings and make appropriate working groups for their preparation. Questions that are planned to be the subject of a temporary commission may be prepared and studied within working groups, committees of the Supreme Council, to which the activities of the Chaes administration are known. Furthermore, the draft decree does not contain information on the composition of a special commission of the Supreme Council, and this is a violation of the Rules, which shows that there is a disagreement in the preparation of the draft. And this is despite the fact that virtually all of its authors, the leaders or authorized MP factions and the Supreme Council groups, who formed the parliamentary presidential majority, have nominated virtually all government leaders, including those to whom the commission is proposed. I'm against creating an extra bureaucratic unit that doesn't fit the Constitution and the Rules, but with Valentina Seminyuk, I agree with just one thing, in the adoption of the law, but in the absence of this commission, it's clearly proven, and I'm delivering it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u247	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u248	And what we have to vote for is the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, which is obvious to everyone, that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u249	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, authored by Yuri Carmazin, registration number 4419/P "On the non-admissibility of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the verification of the effectiveness of the activities of the authorities of the State on the resolution of the set of issues related to the withdrawal of the Chernobyl AES from operation, the introduction of a plan for the implementation of operations in the “Secretance” facility and the zone of exclusion of the issue of consent to radioactive wastes", No. 4419 of 24.11.2003. Yes. There's a vote coming. [[13:09:42]] For-61 The decision is not taken. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree number 4419. To accept this project as a whole as a determination. Please vote. [[13:10:12]] For 247 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk, please, microphone. And now we're going to consider "Decision from the issues under discussion."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u250	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to see that we have a protocol commission -- on the following Sunday to pass a law on the interim commission of inquiry, and I see that most of us agree, and we, the opposition representatives, have an objective approach to this issue. I'm going to ask you to give me a protocol assignment so that we can consider this next Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u251	It's a committee of legal policy, isn't it? I ask the Secretariat and the Legal Policy Committee to prepare proposals for the Conciliation Council. A draft law on holding companies in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, deputy head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u252	Honourable Ukrainian People's Deputies, revered Vladimir Mihajlović. We've already considered this bill, it goes to the vote. What's the point? The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment at its meeting on 18 November last year considered the draft law on Ukrainian holding companies introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a decision to return the bill to the Cabinet of Ministers for its finalization, taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies and to re-read it. The draft aims to define the general framework for the operation of Ukrainian holding companies, including government holding companies, as well as the specificities of their establishment, operation and liquidation. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its justification of 18 August 2003, determined that, as a result of its first reading, the draft law could be adopted on the basis of comments and proposals made. The discussion also showed that it could and should be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers for further development, taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies. It disagrees with many of the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce, which have been commented on in the Scientific and Expert Office. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u253	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Have a seat, please. Valentina Seminouk, please. I'm just asking for a moment, is that for procedure or motive? One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! At the request of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization, it was directed to the Court of Auditors to check on the holding companies. You've all received the material given by the House of Accounts. You could clearly see that the 30 holding companies that were created today are not working in the right field. And given that we have a Presidential Decree today, which clearly states that state property is being alienated from children's enterprises, and this gives us the right to proceed further to the President's Order, we still have to consider what the President's Order is doing. If we don't pass the law, it's going to mean that there's going to be alienation of government property. The bill, which has been passed, prohibits this. This is the main reason why this bill is not adopted. I want to talk to the majority. Here's a message from the President. Page 62, where the main task of the Cabinet of Ministers for 2003 is to adopt the Law on the Administration of State Property, Municipal Property, including the Order of the Holding Law. I'm talking to you, I understand the bill needs work. But if we're responsible for those processes in holding, let's take it in first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u255	Thank you. Valentino Petrovy, it's government, so you don't have to advertise. It's a government project. Then the government needs to call it off. Dear colleagues, according to the rules, I will be the first to make a proposal for acceptance as a basis. If not, we will then be determined according to the committee’s proposal. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft law on holding companies in Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:15:00]] For 251 Decision taken. A draft law on recognition is being announced for consideration in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich, please head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u256	Fellow dignitaries, the committee considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on changes, additions, and recognition of the loss of validity, laws in connection with the adoption and entry into force of the Civil Code. I remind you that since January 1, this year, the Civil Code has become effective. And so, of course, we need to make sure that those laws that are now in force, a whole series of them are now presented to us, 35, are brought into conformity with the Civil Code, of course. The two laws there are proposed to be null and void, null and void. But now we have to accept it on the first reading, the committee proposes to do so, and then go back to those bills with a view to bringing them to the right state. There are reasons for further work. And we will continue to work with the Ministry of Justice. Since there are yet another dozen laws that need to be brought into line with the Civil Code, this is a further work. Now it's started. And there is a proposal to support the bill presented by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill of recognition that has become invalid, some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Registration number 4224. Please vote. [[13:17:16]] For 323 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters to comply with the Ukrainian Civil Code is being announced for consideration. Reporter Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Policy. Please, Mikolo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u258	Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Legal Policy has considered in its session a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and proposes that the Supreme Council approve it as a basis. The point is that since January 1, as my colleague has just said, two codes -- Civil and Master's, which, by the way, were the product of our work with you, were the product of a certain competition between two scientific schools -- civil and commercial. Then there are some similar similarities, and sometimes disagreements, even though they don't interfere with all of our big work, they're still there. In order to reconcile more precisely and eliminate the contradictions between the two documents, the Cabinet of Ministers introduced the bill. Well, in particular, individual positions apply to the order of unacceptable cheating. This institution is no longer here today, and you know in the Civil Code it's not. There are certain positions that apply to anticompetitive legislation, it's updated. On January 16, a new law came into force, which you and I approved. And so on. Therefore, the committee suggests that it be approved in the first reading. There are some positions of discussion, but for that there is a second reading regime so that they are properly considered and reconciled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters to comply with the Ukrainian Civil Code. Registration number 4445. Please vote. [[13:19:11]] For 354 Decision taken. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property is being announced for consideration. Reporter Budzigan Philip Philippovich. Please. There was a change in the storybook, my esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u260	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments at its meeting considered a draft Ukrainian law on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation in the area of intellectual property, registration number 3676, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to further improve the state regulation of export licensing and import of disks for laser reading systems, in particular by removing the contradictions between the Ukrainian Foreign Economic Act and the "On the specificities of national regulation of the activities of operators" related to production, export, import of disks for laser reading systems. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the first reading of the draft law could be based on the comments and suggestions made. The bill was also discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. During the discussion, members of the National Committee noted that the bill did not take into account the comments and proposals made by laser disc manufacturers, which was why they decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return the draft to work. In the consideration of this bill at our committee meeting, there was the CEO of the laser-disk company Rostok-SD, who made some comments and suggestions to the bill. The Osika National MP agreed with these suggestions, which he and the committee members thought could be taken into account in preparing the draft for the second reading. In this regard, the Committee on Economic Policy, the Administration of National Economy, Property and Investment recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Intellectual Property, number 3676 on a basis, i.e. in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill. Dear colleagues, we've already discussed this, you can't go through with this procedure. There's a vote coming, calm down! Adopt the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in Intellectual Property, registration number 3676. Please vote. [[13:22:17]] For 222 What's the committee's offer? No, no, respectable colleagues, calm down. I am voting for re-reading the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property. Registration number 3676. Please vote. We have to do everything at the right time. [[13:22:51]] For 219 The bill was rejected. A draft law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Laundering of Proceeds obtained by Criminal Procedure on the Financial Monitoring Authority is under consideration. Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u262	The Honourable Chairman, honourable national MPs, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption at its meeting on September 17th, supported the Kabmina bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration and acceptance as a basis, and generally as a law, because this is literally one line. This is what we talked about with you, the science-expert management doesn't have any notes, and I'm going to remind you of this line. The words in article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Laundering of Proceeds from Crime, the government body of the government government, which operates within the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, replace the words "central executive authority with special status". I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this decision of the committee, to vote, to take as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u263	With the motives of Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u264	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, it would seem that this question is quite simple, at least I would like to draw your attention to what is proposed in this bill. It is proposed that the Department be given financial monitoring, which currently exists at the Ministry of Finance, as the central authority of the executive branch. I also draw your attention to the fact that 106 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine confers these powers, as the sole prerogative of the President of Ukraine, on the creation of central organs of executive power. Thus this bill is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, it cannot be approved. What's more, I want you to listen carefully now. The faction "Our Ukraine" owns information that's documented and shows that the Department of Financial Monitoring itself is being transformed into an organ that's supposedly being called to fight against dirty money, but it's becoming an organ that's being used as a tool for the laundering of dirty money. If we get this body out of control by the Ministry of Finance, it's going to get worse. So I urge you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u265	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! There's a committee decision. We've discussed this. There's a decision by the Science and Experimental Authority that thinks that this document can be taken as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u266	It's about changes to the law, there's nothing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u267	Dear colleagues! So first, I'm going to put a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of the Laundering of the Proceeds of Crime against the Financial Monitoring Authority. [[Registration number 4122]] Please vote. [[13:26:46]] For 254 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt this project as a whole as a law. Please vote. Change the vote. Dear National Deputies! It's just a change. Okay. All of it. On the basis of that, let the committee continue to agree on the position. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Liability for Offences in Seed, Plant and Plant Rights is being discussed. Sergei Tereshuk, please. The committee will be chaired by Ivan Fedorovich Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u268	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 26 November 2003 considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations of Liability for Violations of Seed, Seed and Plant Rights, registered number 3686, developed in accordance with the Final Provisions of the Law on Seed Gardening. and the protection of the rights to plant varieties." The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached a positive conclusion on the bill. The adoption of the bill is also supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Law Enforcement, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations requests that the prescribed law be adopted on the basis of which there will be no objection - generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. For reasons, Alexander Baranowski, please. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u270	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, I'm pointing out that this law is anti-marketable, notice, manufacturing, cooking. packaging, marking, folding, storing seeds of garden material for sale without meeting the methodological, technological requirements and so forth. These requirements are methodical, technologically unformed, but they will be held accountable, and fines vary. I mean, this law is designed to support those who have their own calibration plants. And if a farmer is growing an elite today, a super elite, another plant that's beautiful, he doesn't have these factories today, he won't be able to stop that. Now, we police have refused to fine, they do it through the courts. In this case, officials are given the broad right to order without penalty everything for which they think, because there are no clear rules of the game. That's why I'm counting, you can't take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Violations of Seed, Seed and Plant Rights, registration number 3686. Please vote. [[13:30:17]] For 243 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, would you mind if I put to the vote a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis? Is there a denial? Oh, in general. Is there a denial? That's it. Then the committee will consider and bring it in. Mikola Kravchenko, please. What question? It's being announced. Mikoli Kravchenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u272	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, and I am still asking to put to the vote, I think that my colleagues will support me not to be the law 4507, which the police carefully want to do today so that we do not consider this week, and we have moved from here to the county without a decision, but I ask you to put it to the vote in the first place in the short-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, let's consult. If now every deputy will rise and demand that we put his bill first, How can we work then? Just what do you do and vote? I'm voting on the proposal, which is one of the deputies for us to change the order for us to now consider the bills that are defined by the Conciliation Council. I'd like you to determine by vote. And that will be true. [[13:31:54]] For the 17th. But if you'll excuse me, dear colleagues, everyone will now demand that we address this issue. Matthew, please. Please. I'm right, I know my rights. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u274	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues! The national MP Kravchenko rightly asks the question. Because, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on the Conciliation Council, I, on behalf of the faction, the faction of Communists, made proposals for the consideration of the draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act, which is the author of by Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko, and from the end of the plenary session, i.e. from the evening to the morning meeting. This was supported by the Conciliation Council. There was no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u275	What's the number? 4505? I'm putting to the vote, my honorary colleagues, the proposal of National Deputy Kravchenk, supported by the chairman of the committee, to now consider Bill 4507, 4507-1, 4446. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[13:33:24]] For-141 The decision is not taken. The draft regulation is being announced, and we're moving on to the section "In summary procedure." The draft Decree on certain provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Act of 20 November 2003, No. 1783 "On measures to improve the pensions of citizens". Registration numbers 4606, 4606-1, 4606-2. National Deputy Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please. Prepare the Turk, then Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! As of January 1, this year, Ukraine’s long - awaited, widely advertised, long - suffering law on mandatory government pension insurance has entered into force. Those of us who meet with the electorate know that his appearance is perceived, to put it mildly, ambiguously. Many of the voters, especially among the current pensioners, have accepted his appearance as another lie and have reason for such an assessment. It was hard to expect a different attitude, a different response in conditions where for 80 percent of current pensioners, the so-called increase in pensions was called 3-6.3 bracelets, and in some cases up to 80 copies. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, you did not want to hear my warnings during the adoption of this law in the second and third readings. And I'm sorry. If those proposals were taken into account, the situation today would not be so terrible for most pensioners. But these effects of pension reform are not only caused by law, but, I would say, not by law, but by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 1783 of November 20, 2003, which is called "On Measures to Improve the Pension Insurance of Citizens". It arbitrarily, unlawfully, the anti-constitutional government reduced the average wage for 2002 from the actual 376 dollars to 306. In the same way, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine went into the pocket of every pensioner, veteran, and disabled person. I mean, he did what all the time in all the nations was of little value -- he harmed a small, destitute, crippled person. The adoption of this decree caused a storm of indignation in society. Moreover, I am aware of the numerous lawsuits brought before the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine before the courts, including the lawsuits of individual citizens and entire professional organizations. It is not enough that this decree has not only violated the law and the Constitution, which, in any case, is quite obvious to me, but has deprived the pensioners of even the hope of improving their position. A rather dangerous precedent has been created. Today, since 376 dollars, the government has graciously left 306 dollars for the calculation of the pension for veterans. And tomorrow someone's gonna want to leave 250, maybe 200 bucks, and then what? In short, on behalf of the authors of the decree, I insist that neither by law nor by conscience did the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have the right to take this decision. That's why the authors of this decision, which is Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Valentin Alexiyovich Anastasiev, head of the Kiev Veteran Organization, Alošin Valerij Borisovich, member of the Committee, first deputy of the Committee, and I insist that. I insist on cancelling the bill and bringing the average wage for 2002 to the actual salary, i.e. 376 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u277	Peter Stepanovich, please sit down. Anatoly Matvienko, please. Basil Nadragha prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u278	Dear colleagues! By order of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Turkinov and myself, Anatoly Matvienk, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, a Supreme Council decision on measures to improve the inadequacy of the Cabinet of Ministers' decision on measures to improve citizens' pensions has been made. In fact, today I support Mr. Cibenko, a fellow cybenko who spoke from this rostrum. This manipulation of numbers: to say one thing, and to do another completely -- today has not only caused people to lose confidence in power, but also. The government itself. It is not clear to us today, national MPs who meet with voters, how to explain government actions that have virtually no logic. Today, as a result of this illogical and illegal action of the government, we are faced with the fact that the Supreme Council has passed a law that practically does not raise, and if it does raise, it is a pitiful sum of money, the pensions of our citizens. In this way, the government has done everything not only to implement the Law "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance and its 43rd Article, but also to undermine the authority of the Supreme Council. I think that the issue of government position and explanation should be heard separately in the Supreme Council. But before that, we obviously need to make a decision and cancel that decision, at least in this part. Because it really violates the Constitution today, and it violates the law. On the basis of this, the authors, on the order of the faction, propose to recognize Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1783, "On measures to improve the pension security of citizens" as part of a totally illegal and unfounded review of the average wage: instead of 376 prior to.- invalidate and require the government to terminate its decision in this part and amend it in accordance with the law adopted by the Supreme Council. Moreover, I would like to point out that this double, this incomprehensible action of the government has led to the fact that those who retired earlier have an average salary pension without the removal of so-called taxes, and now 2002 and it is so clear that 2003 is, somehow, under this principle. This still speaks of illegal and legal acts. We ask the National MPs to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u279	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following things. As a legislative body, we must write laws and, accordingly, these laws must be made a normative framework for any movement in any sector of our being. To date, we are considering the issue of retirement through the Cabinet of Ministers' rulings, as amended by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers by order of the Supreme Council. That is, any movement that we are proposing today is a change in existing regulations through regulations. To this end, I would like to inform you that a bill has been introduced to the Supreme Council today to amend the State Pension Insurance Act. That is, only through law can we adopt a long-term rule that will begin to work. Therefore, when my colleagues today propose to make and, by decree of the Supreme Council, to regulate the situation of determining the average wage with which the pension is paid, it is all a one-time action that requires, so to speak, its legislative consolidation. Why? On the basis of this, the bill, which was signed by me and my colleagues, 4606-2 is a bill that is developing the main logic of the law on compulsory State insurance. To this end, a proposal for the next order. Either you and I are moving away from the problem of solving this subject by a Supreme Council ruling, because we are still going to have to amend the legislation, or I would ask you, after all, to support 4606-2. Best option, I repeat, is that on Friday we will consider the issue and amend the law. This will remain for 2004, for all subsequent years. No, we're going to face a problem every year, who, by what order, named the number. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u281	Thank you, sit down, please. We have a co-reporter from Valery Borisovich Aloshin. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the position of the committee on this matter. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons reviewed draft Supreme Council regulations on certain provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 20 November 2003 on measures to improve citizens' pensions, the draft Ordinance on the Inadequacy of the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on Measures to Improve the Pension Insurance of Citizens in the Part of the Application to Recalculate Pensions of the Average Wage Rate for 2002 at 306 bracelets of current legislation and the draft decision to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 11 December 2003 No. 1390-4 submitted by national deputies: Tzibenkom, Turkinov and Nadrag. [[I'm calling the first ones for a shortcut.]] The Committee has taken the appropriate decision and recommends to the Supreme Council to support, on the basis of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain positions of decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 20 November under registration number 4606. The draft decision, which the Committee makes, is based on the following considerations of the draft legislation. Take the basis for the bill, which was introduced by most of the deputies of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, National Deputies of Cibenk, Aloshina, Gerasimov, Anastasiaeva. Instruct the Committee on Retired Persons to develop a defined draft decision taking into account the individual provisions of other authors’ projects. Now, perhaps some comments are essentially a discussion that unfolded at the committee meeting. Of course, it is absolutely right that we, as a higher legislature, should adopt laws and control their implementation. In this case, there was every possibility of avoiding the situation that arose with the introduction of the 1 January constitutional reform. There was every possibility of correcting both the basic law and doing everything possible to ensure that the law was not enforced by the adoption of special decrees by the Cabinet of Ministers that could violate the pension rights of our citizens. At the same time, we are witnessing exactly this approach when the special decree of the Cabinet of Civil Rights Ministers violated the rights of pensioners. This has resulted from several problems in the work of the legislative body. The first problem is, remember how the 2004 budget was adopted. And the fact that budget priorities did not give rise to priority in the introduction of new pension legislation is a problem for the majority of governments and parliaments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u283	Thank you, Valery Borisovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Viacheslav Kirilenko, we need 2 Za, 2 against, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine, please. Prepare Yuri Salamathin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u284	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are meeting with the standard for our Ukraine case. When the government wants to make matters worse, it calls it the opposite. So let's look at this determination. It's called "About measures to improve citizens' pensions." As a result of this improvement, most pensioners, instead of increasing their pension by 20 and more, have received an increase in pensions from three to six bracelets, which barely compensates for the increase in consumer price index associated with rising food, fuel and all related non-food goods and services. So there's actually a significant deterioration in the condition of our pensioners, although it's called "The Improvement." It is an open cynicism that characterizes the entire political life that now takes place in the country, in Parliament and beyond. It seems to us that Decree 1783 should be expressly repealed, as has already been said in many high political rostrums. At the same time, the government does not express any desire to do so. Therefore, in the near future, the Supreme Council should approve the decision to hold a special Pension Reform Authority Day, since many of the previous discussions on pension reform are now discredited as well as reform itself. For this reason, reform is discredited, not in itself, but in the way that this reform has begun to be implemented by the current government of Yanukovic-Azarov. Now once again, the Ukrainian pensioner will spit on any mention of any pension reform and show specific five bracelets that his pension has increased. And he was expecting something different. And this is not the fault of all political forces, but only those who join the government, or this government in parliament, support. Therefore, we are obliged to hear the argument not so much from the Pension Fund and not so much from the State Committee, whose proposal in the ruling, it is said, has been recalculated the average salary for 2002 and reduced by 70 dollars, we should listen to the economic bloc of the government and the prime minister himself, who, in my opinion, have forced the Pension Fund and Derjkomstat to appear as initiators of this decision and ask the government: where did the billions of dollars go, the billions of dollars that went not to our ordinary Ukrainian pensioners, but to what other goals? And where did those bracelets go? Perhaps to bribe some factions in parliament that suddenly began to support political reform? Maybe for what other needs? Maybe for the presidential campaign? We have the right to ask that. Therefore, "Our Ukraine" initiates such a Government Day and will propose a decision to cancel and recalculate all pensions on the basis of justice and, as provided for in 43 articles of the Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u285	Yuri Solomatin, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say, what is your determination or opposition to consider this issue? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u286	Dear fellow countrymen! We have just heard the crocodile tears of those who pushed through the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine infamous Law on State Pension Insurance. Part of the Bolsheviks, nastiests, and other bourgeois parties pushed forward. What is the difference between pension insurance and pension insurance? Pension insurance is when the state guarantees not only in the Constitution but not only in the law, but all that belongs to the State, the whole nation, the decent level of pensions and pensions. That is what we had until 1991. In 1999, when pensions became too small and made up only one third of the subsistence minimum, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, with nine Communist deputies from the twelve, passed a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to increase the average pension rate by twofold. The Supreme Council has agreed twice on this bill, but the President has twice imposed a veto on this bill. He motivated his veto by the fact that some nine billion dollars were needed in addition, as if there were nowhere else to take them. We pointed out where to take them. From an oil pipeline, with alcohol and tobacco. There the greatest thefts go on all that belonged to our people. What did those in authority offer? Both the Bolsheviks and the minority and the government that obediently does their will and they do theirs. They offered to move from insurance to insurance. What is the definition of insurance? A distraught people were involved in the calculations, who had the number of internships, who had the salary, how much compared to the salary that was paid in 2002, this determines to take away from one disabled person and pay 3, or 5, or 10 bracelets to another disabled person. Guys, this is where they tricked you! That is why we, the faction of Communists, once again emphasize that deception began when we enforce this shameful law on state pension insurance! Our faction, of course, exposed this disgraceful and anti-national decree of the government, 1783, on this account is the statement of the faction and our leader Peter Simonek, we are against the abuse provided for in this decree! We demand that it be lifted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u287	Olga Hinsburg. Dear colleagues, let's be clear about whether or not, let's save each other some time, this is not the time to call. We're not going to be able to look at the mass of drafts yet. It's all over the bank "Slovakia" at the bank "Ukraine" that's just as good for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u288	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Commie faction, Ginsburg, 161 constituency. I'm speaking from this rostrum today, and in advance of you and I going to work in the districts right now, I'm, frankly, worried and afraid of these meetings with my constituents. Because the first question that will be asked today in meeting with its constituencies in the district is the issue of pensions. And as I analyze what happened today, speaking to the Cabinet of Ministers, and today I want to tell my constituents from this rostrum that the Cabinet of Ministers will, as it were, say that it will fix this pension situation. And all pensioners receive at least 20 bracelets from January. I mean, the conversion that is now made into 4-5 bracelets is kind of a mistake, and in January it will be recalculated, and all pensioners will get at least 20 bracelets. That's what I'm saying for the radio to listen to. But I'm worried about another question. Every faction begins and discusses any problem in this room, each representative in his/her district speaks his/her position. Here's the deal. Here's the deal. We, the Communist faction, have proposed such a solution to the pension reform. Unfortunately, though, we were not supported, the Communist faction did not vote in favour of this law. But the main thing is that we can fix it today. You see, for example, if this grandmother is sitting at home, she needs to do a recalculation of pensions, and you didn't say to her, "Come on, Mary Ivanovna, collect all the new papers, run to the pension fund and stay in that queue for three or four hours," where 200 or 300 people who are so nervous are fighting. They are weak, they lose their health. We even have this job of recalculating pensions so that we don't create these sequences, and we can't do that. All right, so they say, they raise, they don't raise, they automatically did it, but forcing people to run, we can't even do it. I always ask myself that question. That's exactly what happened to 50 savings bracelets. 50 bracelets would've been good, but they've organized a job so much that people have been fighting over what you've given 50 bracelets. Now with that pension. You don't have to invent anything. There are people who can do that, there are people who know how to do that. If the Government does not have such skills today, let others go, but it is impossible today to bring the people of the old generation who have built our Power to a state where they are not happy that they live in that State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u289	Dear colleagues, I suggest we continue our work for 15 minutes. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u290	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I'd like you to figure out who's aging. Whether it's a partisan agitating, or it's somewhere else in town agitating. I would like the bourgeois forces to understand that the Supreme Council is a higher legislature, and it has to act in accordance with the Constitution. What can we do about the Constitution? I'll tell you that on December 1st, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a question that, contrary to article 43, paragraph 2, of the National Pension Insurance Act, the salary, the income for the calculation of pensions, is determined in accordance with part two of article 40 of this Act by applying the average wage of employees employed in the economy of Ukraine in 2002. This provision of the law has a clear interpretation and does not require any further interpretation. But the government decree 1783 instead of the actual average wage for 2002, which is equal to 375 dollars, was set at 306. I received a reply at the signature of the Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco. The answer is absolutely free. And that's why I'm proposing today in the naming mode, and I'm stressing in the naming mode, so you can see who it is. And I think this is going to be our Ukraine's proposal to cancel, but the Ukrainian law, Government Order 1783 of 20 November 2003, where every pensioner between 30 and 40 dollars -- that's what it cost. So it's a very simple law, on the one hand, where this decision is made by Zybenek, Aloshin, Gerasimov, Anastasia, you have to write, "The Ukraine Act of the Order of the Government of November 20, 2003, 1783." The Supreme Council decides to cancel the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on the determination of the average monthly salary level and the collection of 375.98 per cent of the gross wage. All right, one point of everything has to be accepted and voted today, nothing more. Any decision we make will simply increase the number of documents and lead to nothing. Let's do a concrete action, not talk about what we're doing here. As for the regulation, which is number 2, with index 2, 4602, it's totally unsufficient because it's so cunning and deceitful that people can see for themselves. I ask the law to vote and put Vladimir Mikhailovich to a roll call.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u291	Thank you. Unfortunately, we cannot abolish the Supreme Council's decree by law. We can't give Kabmin orders. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. We have three draft regulations in order of coming, I'll put them in order. For reasons, Dry please. Please don't run away, we need another document after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that on December 9, 2003, on Government Day, in my speech, I drew the attention of the Pension Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers to the ambiguous interpretation of the basic bill, and to the arbitrary treatment of the basic rate of retirement. At the same time, we agreed that the Cabinet of Ministers would not object to a decision recommending him to make proposals on the legislative settlement of the matter. I mean, this question can be legally settled. And unfortunately, I'm seeing again what it would look like to be a normal normative document, that politics is coming in again, that some courts are coming in, that calls are being made to the long-suffering Ukrainian people, while by Decree 4606-2, we can conduct normative documents in accordance with what we said on Government Day. That is, to review the normative indicator in the basic bill and not allow for free treatment of article 43. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u293	Honourable National Deputies, according to the registration of the coming, I put to the vote the first draft of decree 4606 of the national deputies of Cibenk, Aloshina, Gerasimov, Anastasieva for adoption in general. This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council on certain provisions of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of November 20, 2003, No. 1783, "On measures to improve citizens' pensions." I'm voting for adoption as a whole. [[14:02:28]] For 203 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 83, "Regions of Ukraine" - 4, Communist faction - 58, Industrial Party - 3, Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine "United" - 0, People's Government - 4, SPU - 20, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 17, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Agrarian Party - 0, National Choice - 0, NDP - 1, Postfraction - 13. I'm voting on draft order number 4601-1. Submitted by the Turkish National Deputies, Matthew. This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1783 of 20.11.2003 on measures to improve the pensions of citizens in part of the application for the recalculation of pensions of the average wage for 2002 at the level of 306 dollars 45 copies of the current legislation of Ukraine. I'm betting on a vote for adoption as a whole as a decision. [[14:03:50]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Put the factions on the board. "Our Ukraine" - 90, Ukraine - 3, Communist faction - 57, Industrialists and entrepreneurs, "Trudova Ukrainiana" faction - 0, SDPU - 0, "The People's Government" - 9, SPU - 20, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 19, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, Agrarian Party - 3, People's Choice - 0, NDP - 0, Postfraction - 11. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on draft decree No. 406-2 amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 11 December 2003, the authors of the National MP: Darling, Kruglov, Storm. Please vote for adoption as a whole as a decision. [[2:04:59]] For 171 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Draft decision No. 4606-P of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with decision No. 1783 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 20 November 2003. It is suggested that the first project, registration number 4606, and then work on the proposals made in other regulations. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:05:47]] For 241 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The factions, please. Come on. We'll be wasting time. "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Regions of Ukraine" - 13, Communist faction - 58, Industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trudova Ukraine" faction - 0, SDPU - 2, "The People's Government" - 2, SPO - 20, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 15, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, Agrarian Party - 16, "The People's Choice" - 0, NDP - 4, outside the faction - 12. Dear colleagues, we should now consider three draft regulations relating to the Regulatory Committee, but since the meeting of the Regulatory Committee has begun, there is such a proposal as we could now briefly consider the draft regulations for the continuation of paragraph 6 of the Supreme Council Regulation on Land Reform. Is there no objection? Well, it's a very necessary document. And after lunch, we'll go back to the documents to be reported to the Regulatory Committee. Please, very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, this is literally one minute. As of 01.01 2004, Ukraine has the right to privatize 13 million land areas. 270 thousand. Citizens. Of these, only three million took advantage of their right to land ownership. Almost seven million citizens were eligible for land-piai, and only three and a half million of them received a government act in exchange for certificates. At present, there are still many people, as you can see, who have not been able to transform and privatize, and to obtain government documents on private property to land. The action of our decision, which we adopted in December 1990 on land reform, was extended only until 2004, until January 1, 2004, and it ended. And today, people cannot establish ownership of the earth. It's about cities, houses, gardens, parts of the land. That is why we propose to continue this Supreme Council ruling until 1 January 2008 so that all people have equal rights and enjoy their right to privatize the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u295	Yes, thank you, Catherine Timofievna. Please. Is Peter Pavlovich Kuzmenko there? Just a minute. Is there a Kuzmenko? None. Catherine Timofievna, please sit down. Another is a project by the national deputy Kuzmenko. He proposes to extend the term until January 1, 2005. And now there's a report by Vladimir Aleksyovich Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u296	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations carefully reviewed both the bills introduced by National MP Catherine Vaschuk and National MP Kuzmenk. The committee believes that this question is being asked at the right time. It is relevant to most of our citizens, as well as to legal persons, such as the Ministry of Defence and other state bodies. They have not been able to establish ownership and use land for various reasons. Therefore, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations concluded that it would support, propose to the Supreme Council to support the Katherina Vaschuk Bill No. 4223, where the right to form the listed property rights or to exercise the rights of ownership continues until 1 January 2008. Another bill 4223-1 of the Kuzmank People's Deputy is only until January 1, 2005. This term is extremely short. That's why I'm proposing to the people's deputies, the committee's deputies, to support Bill 4223. Accept it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-17-m0.u297	Dear colleagues, no objection? Then I put the vote in order of arrival. The first is the draft decision, proposed by National Deputy Vaschuk Katerina Timofijnývna, Registration Number 4223, on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the continuation of paragraph six of the Supreme Council Order on Land Reform. Please vote. [[14:10:55]] For 393 It's been decided. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. I remind you, dear colleagues, that we are considering issues and making decisions. Please have the deputies in the session room.
