ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:01:15]] Reported -382 There are 382 national deputies registered in the hall. Sign up for the procedure. Please explain. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u2	Osaka, Chernobyl. None. Then please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! We see that we are driving ourselves into a road situation and we look very uncomfortable, including in front of the judges that we should approve today, in front of everyone. And that's why I see the only way out of this situation is to go back to normal regulation. In accordance with the regulatory rules, there should be sufficient announcement of the start of a new vote when they went in secret with the announcement of parameters, which was not made by the chairman. And the second. Once again, I stress the bill, the draft decree given by Gavrish, is totally out of line with the normative practice of legislation, since it is not possible for the Supreme Council to order organizations, institutions and services to do what they are obliged to do under law. We have absolutely normal conditions to go back to those votes, to vote again. And finally, I'm going to say vote for myself. It's not about opposition, it's about our group, it's about the faction of regions, workers and others. You're driving yourself into a very scary situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u4	Please, Dragnibok. Follow him, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u5	Oleg Tajnibok, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Our Ukraine. I'd like a word with Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u6	Please, from the cook mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u7	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'd like to read you an excerpt from the transcript that you, Adam Ivanovich, put to the vote. This is a direct quote from the transcript, or official document. I quote, "I'm putting the draft order to the vote number 5432-3. This project is decided by a group of Ukrainian national deputies" and so on. So the people's deputies were convinced that you were in line with the Rules to put this project on the ground. And you had no right then to announce that the draft decision was adopted because there are alternative projects. And you could've just put it on the ground. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists that we continue to consider this issue so that we can make our amendments to the decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u8	Please, Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u9	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the question of judges must be settled. From all over the country, they came here, they waited all day, they had to either solve the question of judges or let people go.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u10	Please, Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u11	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues from "Our Ukraine", national deputies! I beg you, give me your word for five minutes so that we can establish the judges who are sitting on the right. They're people who haven't worked in over a year, let them go, they have to go home. And I think we're going to start dealing with our own issues here. I'm asking you to just meet me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u12	Yes, it's your turn, but there's no time. I put it out of line because it was a proposal from the head of the committee that had something to do with the judges. Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate that you have just read a transcript that does not say that she voted on the basis. They didn't read the last line that said: so 250 votes -- the decree was adopted. We didn't do anything wrong. We voted according to how it stood. I suggest you consider the question of judges now. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE No! No!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u13	Once again, I put it to a vote: who, in order to take up the question of the appointment and dismissal of judges, please make a determination. [[16:06:31]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Please sign up. Please, monitor. Five minutes. Nikolainka, get ready to go to Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, first of all, I would like today, however it may be, to put a dot in Mukachevo's history, because, in fact, what happened there is a disgrace to honor and dignity and to MPs and Ukrainian authorities and to Ukrainian law. At the same time, I would like to have another negotiation with the representatives of our Ukraine, with the leaders of all factions, in order to resolve this issue. And, of course, somehow we need to make arrangements so that we don't hold the judges here and release them and confirm their authority, otherwise it's uncomfortable in front of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u15	Please, Lechchenka, get ready for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u16	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! After all, we really have to look at the question of judges right now, and then resolve our internal-parliamentary problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u17	Please, Rabbit, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u18	Please pass the word to Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u19	Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, and especially I turn to the Communist faction! You know, that's kind of how fascism started in Germany. What today is SDPU(o) is about what is NDRP, only in Germany. And today, by confirming the judges or not confirming them, nothing will be resolved. If we don't give in to fascism in Ukraine right now, he'll come. And believe that, as in Germany, you Communists will be the first to fall under it. I want to say that in Mukachevo it was your representatives who were driving this SDPU out of the field. So I'd like you and I to end fascism in Ukraine today and then appoint judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u21	Please, Dry, Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u22	I would like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u23	Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u24	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, well, with regard to fascism, we are now inviting Viktor Andriovich Yushchenka, and we will also invite colleague Assadchev to court. And I think we're going to prove the truth there. I hope that you will come in person and not send your lawyers there. Dear colleagues, when a motion for the release of Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk was voted on, no one doubted that it was being voted on as a decree. Let's respect ourselves. The next decree is voted in general. I now propose to go back to the question of judges, and in the meantime, faction leaders may consult with each other or with the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u25	Please, Razwadowski. Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the Roadway.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u27	Thank you, Reverend Victor Josephovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you three moments. The first moment is, obviously, that our Rules aren't perfect, but not to that extent, that's the first time. Secondly, two technical problems: ask me to make your microphone louder or raise it, because it's not heard in the voting room, and it's very difficult to react, especially in this environment. And the third is that the honourable Adam Ivanovich, all the decrees, were put to the vote in general, so everyone here understands. In order to work in a day’s work, additional voting may not be necessary. Request to continue to work and at least vote on the question of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u28	Please, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, I would like to invite everyone who is involved in the fact that our boys are in Iraq today to hand over the money so that we can hand them over to the parents of a dead Ukrainian soldier. And if we move on to the things that we now have, I would like to say that I would like to fully support the proposals that we should do something normal, according to our Ukrainian state, to finish the case on Mukachevi, understanding that Mukacheve is today the test point from which the presidential election will unfold. It's on one side. And on the other hand, I'd like us to consider the question of judges today. Well, it wouldn't be nice for people to go and go with such a bad impression of our Parliament. So I think the wisdom of the leadership of Parliament and faction leaders will be to find a way out of it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Hear? Shut up. Replica, please. Who's with the CPI? Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u31	Thank you. First of all, the representatives of the faction of our Ukraine, I want to say that we don't need to be agitated, and even more so, we and our parents, the veterans of the Great Homeland War, know as no one knows what fascism is. Secondly, the Communist faction takes a clear and consistent position whenever a complex political, economic, social problem is solved in the Supreme Council. This was confirmed by our vote yesterday and today on the situation in Mukachevo. And only the blind can see it. And lastly, I want to say that you, Your Honor, have given birth to what we all reap today. When the Communists were beaten, that's when our party headquarters were shot down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, all who wanted to express their wishes and recommendations on how to unlock the session's work, have already said. And there are a lot of really good thoughts. I say, let's do it this way. For 50 minutes now, we will consider the question of the appointment and release of judges. Then we're going to announce a break, we're going to gather the Conciliation Council, and we're going to be with factions and groups to find a way out of this situation. [[Here I was correctly noted that we had no right to put this to a vote, because it is in the order of the day.]] Because, believe me, it's gonna be really embarrassing. You know how scarce our budget is, they don't come to us for their money, they come to us for their budget. We're not going to look at them today, we're going to call them in two weeks or three, and so on. Let's do it humanely, humanely. None of this will change if we consider the appointment and release of judges and then announce a recess for the Conciliation Council. And then let's figure out what we're going to put to the vote on the Conciliation Council. Don't worry, it doesn't stop. That's why I'm asking you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please. If you'll excuse me. (Noise in the hall) Vasil Vasilovich, are you ready to report the judges?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u33	Please sign in. Three minutes. Please explain. Three minutes. Katusheva, Evdokim.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u34	Please give the floor to Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u35	Please, it's Alexandrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u36	Alexandrovskaya, town of Harikov, Company of Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I'll ask you, after all, to set things straight in the hall. And, distinguished colleagues, there are judges here who have come to carry out their duties. Let us do our duty to these people. I understand that we are considering the issue today, and we support the need to make decisions. But let's finally respect those who came here today to work with us. I propose that we really begin to consider the issue of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u37	Please, Eugene, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please give the floor to the national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u39	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Once again, I want to ask you that we are considering a matter that is very important and important. People came from all over Ukraine. Vasily Vasilovich Onopenko, I'm addressing you. Will your political affiliation be higher than your profession? What prevents you from reporting from your seat rather than from the rostrum with your colleagues, by the way, the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, having the opportunity to continue your work? Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put a question to the vote so that we can vote on the decision to appoint judges without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u40	Please, Rudzkowski, Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u41	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! What happened in Mukachevo is a disgrace when national MPs are beaten and there is no investigation. We have to give this a clear assessment. And we, together with the people's deputies Zibank and Karmazin, have proposed an alternative decision -- to vote together in a package of two decisions -- on the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, as well as the decision of Andria Shkila on the Mukachevo issue. And if such an offer were accepted, we would have solved it. But I also support a colleague of the National Deputies, who now needs to be given the opportunity to speak to the National MP ononenk and release the judges. Let's not have a circus. We'll deal with each other, but let's do it according to procedure. Let's let the judges go, what did we invite at 12:30?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u42	Please, Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u43	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please give the word to Bandur to Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u44	Please, Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, we should be the first to demonstrate compliance with the law and set an example of compliance with the law. If we want stability in the state, there will be no justice without it, this factor. I propose two things, Adam Ivanovich: to establish the judges and to hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council today so that we can discuss our internal problems at closed doors. Please put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u46	Please, Catherinechuk. Catherinechuck Mikoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, I am now addressing you! I'm sure that each of you is worthy of appointment on an indefinite basis, let's say, on an untimely basis, but you realize that today, if we make this decision in such an atmosphere, I think it's not clear enough. And I don't think it's going to be sufficiently reasoned and effective. So I have a proposition: you will refuse today solidarity with those Mukachevo residents who have been deprived of the right to vote, and in practice if we deprive people of the right to vote, they become slaves. Well, why do slaves have a judicial system if it doesn't protect them? That's why I'm asking you, say no, because we're voting against you because each of you, we know, deserve to be judges, and you're in your place. Please come with us to solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, let's sum it up, I'll start with the last. I am surprised that such a famous lawyer as Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk calls on judges to commit illegal acts. No body, including a national MP, has the right to influence judges ’ decisions. It's their right, it's their right. Let's go, let's go. With regard to proposals. I explain to the people's deputy Klukkowski that the presiding session has the right to amend when there is false, unreliable information, information relating to what is being violated by the Constitution. [[You'll get the replica tomorrow.]] On the offer of Shufrich. Pay attention! With regard to the correction of Shufric, Schufric’s proposal, it unfortunately has no legal basis. Because we recently passed a law on the appointment and release of judges. And this is no longer regulated by our regulations, and this is regulated by the law. The decision in the Supreme doesn't change the law once, even if we wanted to. We can change them and send them to the President. If he signs, then he'll be guided by these standards. So we have to consider the appointment and release of judges according to the law that, if I'm not mistaken, came into effect about April 20th. Regarding Alexander Markovich Bandurka's proposal to conduct, appoint judges, and hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council. Be careful, I'm going to put this motion to the vote. Who's for building our work as follows: to consider the appointment and release of judges, then to hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council to discuss the problems that are now excite the session hall. Please vote. [[16:25:32]] For 199 The decision is not taken. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 16 hours of 55 minutes. Faction leaders and groups, please rise on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. Dear colleagues, you know, quite often when I go to a meeting with representatives of the media, I start by saying, "What do you say to what you don't know?" So about now, what can I tell you that you don't know? Nothing. For an hour instead of the half an hour we've just sat down, we've debated quite a lot of proposals that have been varied, they've been voting, these proposals. In the end, this was the result. The main point was the deadline for the execution of our decree, which was voted 250 people’s deputies, where it was about the terms when we heard representatives of the power structures. And here we have "The Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the results of the investigation." This was the vote, there were two proposals. I'm reminding you of the norm. This decision, of course, is not a session hall, it's a decision of the Conciliation Council, because there's a rule that says that the number of factions' votes are multiplying by the number of factions, and that comes out of that decision. There were suggestions from "Our Ukraine" and BUT to hear it tomorrow, but there were reasonable reasons that there were about 150 people's deputies, the voices of the factions that they represented, because there were perfectly reasonable objections. We listened to them yesterday, we listened to them yesterday, they're not ready to tell us anything else tomorrow than they said yesterday. What's more, I want to prove what I've informed and the Conciliation Council, I don't know, is that most of the people's deputies haven't been able to get to know this information. I can't say where it was publicized by the Attorney General, but after about 15 hours, there was information that the Attorney General said that he had sent an investigator there in particularly important cases, which led to all criminal cases involving the cases involving Mukachev, including the kidnapping of ballot papers. All of this has been taken under personal control by the Attorney General and the Attorney General has publicly stated that he considers it a matter for the Office of the Attorney General to bring these cases to an end and inform the public. So there was another suggestion that we listen to this information on May 11 when we start the next session. When we start the next session. This suggestion that you and I consider the reports as adopted in the May 11 decree was given to 250 votes. Therefore, respectable colleagues. I'm not talking about the ruling, I'm talking about what the Conciliation Council recommended. The Conciliation Council, the factions that represented this view, have about 250 votes in total for us to listen on May 11th. There was another offer, and I'd like you to take it. Let's just let the judges go by making decisions, and then let's continue to decide our own internal affairs without considering any other.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u50	So what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u51	What kind of bandits are there?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u52	What? What bandits?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u53	Shall we work today?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m1.u54	Sit down, we'll work. Sit down then, we'll work. [[B in m in s a l in]] I repeat, sit down, we'll work. This evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I apologize to the judges. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the beginning.
