ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:07]] Registered -332 It was registered in the 332 National Deputies Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, after a prolonged illness yesterday, our colleague, the National Deputy of Ukraine, died as a deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, a member of the "Region of Ukraine" faction of Thursday's Ivan Antonovich. Please honor John Antonovich’s memory by a minute of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear national deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, we are spending a government day in the morning. On March 4, Ukraine’s Supreme Council decree, the government prepared information on the current state of pensions and the introduction of pension insurance in Ukraine. Reporters from the government are appointed Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Help materials from this question are handed to you. The Professional Committee, in accordance with the Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposes to set the following rules of procedure: information from the government, speeches by the Minister and Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for 15 minutes each date. The answers to the written and oral questions are up to 30 minutes each. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come And then go to the discussion -- five minutes for the speech and discussion, in the discussion. With the intention of completing this consideration at 2 p.m. Is there no objection? Then we begin our consideration of the matter. I'd like to invite you to speak with the minister. Out of procedure, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to suggest that we make a decision regarding the broadcast of our meeting on the street in view of the fact that a certain part of the people who are interested in the matter, let us say, has come under the walls of Parliament to solve this problem. So I'd like to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to give an order to get a broadcast of our meeting on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u3	No objection, dear colleagues? Then we include a broadcast on the street. The word has the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Mikhailo Papiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On behalf of the Government of Ukraine, I express my gratitude to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the opportunity to report on the current state of pensions in Ukraine and the results of the first steps of pension reform. In particular, I would like to thank those 357 people who, on July 9, 2003, understood the urgent need for pension reform, voted in favour of the basic laws of the new pension system. The responsible attitude of the legislators toward reform is also confirmed by the fact that none of the 444 deputies present then, I would stress, have objected to the adoption of these laws. After all, we all realized that further delay could have disastrous consequences for society’s development. I recall that at that time the walls of the Supreme Council had been discussed for about five years about the need for changes in the pension system, but the political divide, the misunderstandings of the urgent economic and social needs of the reforming system had ruined all these attempts. However, compromise was found. And our government, for the support of a constructive part of Parliament, has managed to start this very important work. At the time, there was an urgent need to create a viable and efficient market economy for the pension insurance system. Its foundation is a direct dependence on the size of the employee's future pension on his employment contribution and the elimination of the sad balance. Such a system guarantees a steady increase in the well-being of pensioners, contributes to the childization of the economy and allows balance between demographic and economic risks. Days have passed just 100 days since the reform began. In this situation, no economic or political argument can be a reason to deny the overall effectiveness of the changes that generally take place in the country’s pension system. I would like to point out the priority of the pension issue for the government and the Supreme Council, and this is reflected in a strengthened view of the development and improvement of the whole range of pension legislation. In particular, there has been a 2.4 - fold increase in the minimum age pension since early 2002. Last year, this indicator increased by one and a half times. Since the adoption of the Law on Pensions, 920,000 have been assigned to Ukraine for special merit. Almost half a billion dollars. First of all, they are many - child mothers, those involved in combat, those who are rewarded for their hard work. Last year, 10 percent added to special merit pensions for disabled people in the Great War. Since the first May of this year, the targeted financial assistance has also been provided to those war invalids whose pensions do not reach the minimum of living. The government has provided 100% funding for an additional pension guarantee programme for workers released in connection with the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. One hundred and fifty thousand persons who worked or lived in radioactive pollution areas were reduced in retirement age. Some 300 million dollars have been allocated by the Government to finance this program. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities allowed the establishment of pensioners at a level that enhances the prestige of scientific work and stimulates systematic updating of scientific personnel. In doing so, a list of previously assigned pensions is made available to scientific workers and their application to the pensions assigned to them today. Starting this year, 50 percent of the assigned scientific pensions are funded by the state budget. Such an approach allows for a substantial reduction in the financial burden on state-owned scientific institutions and organizations. Now, the data we've already received allows us to show a general picture of the results of the pre-retirement calculations that have been made. In particular, the Fund’s spending on reform will increase by seven billion dollars in the current year alone and will represent 11.1 percent against last year’s 9.8 percent in terms of its domestic gross product. The changes that we see in the region's section on the ratio of the average pension to the subsistence minimum for disabled citizens allow us to talk about the positive processes that began in the area of pension insurance after the recalculation of pensions under the new pension law. I'd like to draw your attention to the map presented. As of January 1, 2003, there were fewer than 50 percent of the average pension ratio in 16 regions of Ukraine and between 50 percent and 60 percent in the rest of Kiev. After the census, regions with an average pension ratio of less than 50 percent remained. In 13 regions, it accounted for between 50 and 60 percent, nine to 70 percent, and four to 70 percent. The regional cut in the number of pension recipients is higher than the subsistence minimum: in the Kyiv region, three times, in Lviv, two and a half times, in Lugansk, 1.6 times, in Kiev, 2.7 times. As an absolute bonus, I would like to point out that, after counting, the average pension has reached or exceeded the subsistence minimum in areas where workers are employed with particularly harmful and particularly difficult working conditions, while before recalculating pension payments have been two-thirds of the cost of living at a minimum. It should be noted that things are not going as well as they would like to. Already at the beginning of the practical implementation of the law, there were a number of acute issues that caused social resonance, such as the recalculation of previously assigned pensions. Although Ukraine is one of the few countries that has gone to increase pensions for current pensioners with the implementation of the reform. The problem 306 is presented by some political forces, not as essentially technical, which, I think, will stop in more detail the next reporter, but rather as apocalyptic. There is much to be done about this, but surprisingly, the position of the government coincides with the goal of the opposition part of Parliament, if only this goal is to increase material. the least-funded categories of pensioners. It is the government’s decision to achieve it that the minimum pension rate of 1 January 2004 has been increased by 12 percent. Right now, there's a payout for these acquisitions, and hopefully they can finally convince the population of the effectiveness of the reform. Even foreign experts highly appreciate the methodological base and practical implementation of our reform, since unlike most European countries, we have managed to avoid unpopular steps. We still have a year to retire. We don't have an increase in the rate of work for the assignment of pensions. Working pensioners are not deprived of their pensions. Finally, we did not get our pension benefits cancelled. Of course, the best option was to increase the minimum pension to the minimum of living, but we have to consider economic realities. The very idea of pension reform is to restore social justice and differentiation of pension benefits depending on the contribution. The issue of rural pensions remains acute. Rural pensions in the vast majority are low, although farmers pay pensions of almost 4 billion dollars a year, even though there is an estimated 300 million dollars per year for the Pension Fund from agricultural producers. In this sense, the new pension system is fully and fully working for the benefit of the peasants by making a substantial redistribution of the income of the pension fund from industrial to agricultural areas. However, the increasing income of rural pensioners needs to be addressed in the complex, taking into account other measures to address it. Thus, as a result of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Additional Measures for the Social Protection of Farmers, Landowners and Paid Parts, the total amount of land rations leased in 2003 to 2.8 million pensioners amounted to over a billion 100 million dollars. This is an essential supplement to retirement. The corresponding average pensioner's pensioner's income is 396 dollars, with the total pensioner's income increasing by 35 percent. In certain areas, the annual amount of the pensioner's pension is more than half or almost a year's pension, which is Dnipropetrovska, Mikolaivska, Herson Region and the town of Sevastopol. This increases the annual minimum pension payment by more than 50 percent. In line with the Government's Programme of Action "Coherence, Efficiency, Responsibility" to Increase the Income of the Pension Fund, and from the further approximation of the minimum pension to the minimum of living, 100 per cent of the minimum wage in 2007 has contributed to the implementation of the minimum wage of 237 dollars since September 2004 and the progressive achievement of 100 per cent of the minimum wage. Further reforming the pay system, increasing its physical weight in the structure of the population's monetary income, increasing the share of the cost-of-work fund in the domestic gross product, further increasing the rate of duty rates for budget workers. In order to improve the pension provision of veterans, the government is taking steps to increase the role of apprenticeships while increasing the size of pensions. I'd like to emphasize again. That pension reform is a complex, long-term, step-by-step process that requires balanced decisions, flexibility and clear compliance with the action plan. If medical comparisons are made, pension reform is not an agonizing injection at all, but rather effective therapy is called upon to rid society of chronic diseases. One of the important tasks of the government over the next few years is the establishment of a system of mandatory government pension insurance that will complement the solidarity pension system. This law provides for the creation of the necessary socio-economic, organisational and technical preconditions to ensure the efficient operation of the stockpiling fund and minimize the deficit of the solidarity pension scheme during transitional periods. Within two or three years, it is necessary to ensure the creation of an institutional and regulatory base for the cumulative system of compulsory state pension insurance, the introduction of a mandatory stockpiling level will balance the financial base of the pension system and give a number of benefits to future pensioners, including an increase in the level of pensions due to the acquisition of investment income, the provision of an inheritance right, this is accrued on an individual pension account. Men and women who will not be 50 and 45 years old at the time of the creation of this system will be able to participate in the formation of accounts in stockpiling funds. Thus, our delay will delay or make it impossible to guarantee their decent retirement. The government has been paying constant attention to the issue of the introduction of a voluntary non - state system of pension savings. In particular, in accordance with the Law on Non-Governmental Pensions, legislation has now been developed to regulate the establishment and operation of non-state pensioners. Relevant changes have been made to the licensing conditions for the introduction of pension activities in the securities market. Additional responsibilities and corresponding restrictions have been established for the management of joint investment institutions and pension managers. Honorable national deputies, at the time that they passed the adoption of laws and a hundred days after the practical implementation of the pension reform, had to hear different thoughts about it. There were also many critical remarks. I think that's normal, because constructive criticism will help us find ways to solve the many problems that lie ahead. I would like to suggest asking questions in a different way. Who's in charge of abolishing pension reform? Who is in charge of reducing today’s pensions to bring back the balance? Finally take away the younger generation's ability to secure a worthy old age? Convinced, reform can be criticized, the authors can be scolded. However, it must be implemented in order not to represent a civilized world with its own domestic variant of social development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u5	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Can I ask you a question, please? Questions. Oh, two reports, and then questions. Please. Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Please. Head of the Pension Fund, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Since the entry into force of the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act, three months have passed. The term is very small in terms of the scale and depth of pension reform. At the same time, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the government was provided with preparation and direct implementation of the law in the shortest possible time. Working at the end of last year and at the beginning of this, under extremely difficult conditions caused by the unprecedented influx of citizens, the Pension Fund managed to ensure that the work was carried out, maximizing the inconvenience of citizens. For several months, 13.6 million pension funds were inventoryed by the Pension Fund. An estimate of 12.5 million pension cases was made. But today there is an ongoing process in which pensioners submit additional salary and internship documents acquired by January 1, 2004. This constantly changes the picture of the size of pensions and the level of expenditure of the Pension Fund. We can talk about the first results of the work. The introduction of the law provided a basis for financial recovery and balance in the pension system. Its clearance from non-proprietary payments, the mobilization of funds to increase the level of citizens' pensions. The functioning of the Personalized Pension Fund system and the assignment of a pension according to its data have been legally established. Today, more than 26 million have been discovered. Over 13.8 million accounts have been issued. State pension insurance certificates have been sent to insured persons for more than 10 million years. messages from the personalised account system on the state of payment of their premiums. This greatly contributes to the legalization of wages and the establishment of public control over the full payment of employers’ contributions to pension insurance for employees employed. Important standards have been introduced to strengthen payment discipline regarding insurance contributions and to fill the income portion of the Pension Fund’s budget. During the first quarter of 2004, the Fund’s arrival amounted to more than 7 billion. That's right. Compared to the same period last year, the quarterly income of the fund increased by 1.8 billion. That's right. This increase in the Fund’s income is linked not only to the overall growth of the economy but also to the gradual exit of wages from the shadow sector. In two months of the current year, the amount of wages paid through banks has increased by 2.2 billion. And it's $10.2 billion. This has also contributed to the introduction of a new mechanism to determine the size of work pensions, which will ensure their direct dependence on the official income of the person and his or her life expectancy. You know that the government has done everything to ensure that the laws of Ukraine that regulate pension insurance, and more than 20 of them, are fully implemented and that after the introduction of the new law, pension payments are not reduced. The measures taken have ensured that pensions have been increased since the first day of the introduction of the new law. In implementing the law, the government paid great attention to studying the world’s experience of pension reform. Many national deputies also took part in this process. So you know that in other countries pension reforms have been directed only to persons who are entitled to a pension under new pension laws. Moreover, in many countries, reforms have envisioned a more stringent retirement system: an increase in retirement age, an increase in retirement. I'm just going to give an example for the countries of SND. Pensions were increased in Moldova, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan. You know that the recalculation of pensions was carried out according to the internships and earnings of existing retirements. This did not allow pensioners to be required to provide additional documents. In addition, pensioners may, as they wish, submit additional income and internship documents during this year, which they acquired by January 1, 2004. At the same time, new pensions are paid for January 1st, regardless of the date of submission of documents. Let me remind you that 12.5 million pensions have been counted. Overall, according to the law, almost 3.3 million pensioners were recalculated. The rest of the pensioners were increased according to the government’s decision within existing financial capacity. The average post-calculation pension amounted to 185 dollars against 139 and 45 copies, which was on January 1, 2003. A significant increase in pensions under the new law has been given to those who have earned a lot of income and a long period of service. This is primarily true of miners, metallurgists, chemists, mechanical builders, and so forth. Recalculations of pensions under the National Pension Insurance Act were made by the Pension Fund authorities alongside the current appointments of new pensions and the recalculation of pensions for scientists, government officials, and other categories of pensioners. The recalculations of pensions under the new pension legislation have led to an increase in the number of citizens, primarily pensioners, to the pension funds. In this regard, a number of measures have been taken to create the right conditions for their admission, an increased number of reception places, an increased number of reception days, and extended hours of reception. The Fund’s separate schedules and early reports are carried out by citizens’ departures at their residences: in JEK, in rural councils, and in labour groups. In this we had the support of local authorities and local authorities. The government is constantly directing its work to ensure public access to information related to the reform of the pension system. This is done regularly through central, regional television, radio and print media. Booklets, brochures on pension reform, have been prepared and distributed in centrally and locally. At the central level and in the regions, free hot telephone lines have been created, allowing hundreds of thousands of citizens to receive appropriate advice. Specialized seminars and meetings are held in working groups. The measures that have been taken will in some way relieve the tension and provide more favourable conditions for the care of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that, despite what has been done, there is an urgent need for a further increase in the size of those pensions that remain low. The reform has only taken the first steps in this direction. However, we can't forget that the pensions of the solidarity system are derived from wages and from the level of employment of the population. In order to ensure minimum living minimum size, the average wage in Ukraine must be more than 800 dollars. While for 2004 it is projected to be only 535 dollars. 34 percent is the total rate of deduction to the Pension Fund of salary 535 is 181 bracelets and 90 copies. Practically to the average pension size of 185. Among the reasons why pensions are small are needed are these factors. First. There's a small share of the cost of the product. If it was 15-24 percent in the early 1990s, it's only 9-11. The other one. The extremely low wage levels in the agrarian sector have left a large proportion of rural pensioners with small pensions. For help. 1995 The average wage in the village was 37 dollars. In 2000, the figure was 111. Last year it was 210 bucks. At the same time, the average village pension in 2003 amounted to 135 dollars. Now the average pension is 150 dollars. Unfortunately, we have to say that in individual regions of Ukraine, average pensions are already higher than the average wage. That's January 1st. The region of the Zitomir region of the middle pension will exceed 13 areas. A similar situation is observed in Rowen, Volinsky, Ternopil, Kirovograd. Actual rural pension costs in 2003 amounted to nearly 9.8 billion dollars, and the arrival of part of the fixed agricultural tax for that period amounted to 253 dollars. In doing so, the validity of the general government pension policy rules regarding the payment of insurance premiums to farmers has been suspended on a general basis and the corresponding costs from the State Budget have been offset on 1 January 2005. Third. Debt from payment of salary on March 1st, according to the Statekombt data, amounted to almost 1.9 billion, resulting in the fund not receiving more than 600 million claims. Four. There is a debt of enterprises and insurance contributions to the Pension Fund. On April 1, this year, the taxpayers’ debt to the fund amounted to more than 1 billion, including 867 million small children. In the debt structure, 440 million or 42 percent of businesses are indebted to bankruptcy cases. And very negative about the state of payment discipline was marked by the decision made during the 1994 - 2001 period to write off the mortgage on pension contributions totalling almost 7 billion dollars. Regrettably, the proposals for cancellation of debts to the Pension Fund continue to come for consideration by the Supreme Council, despite the fact that such write-offs are expressly prohibited by the Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Fifth. The demographic situation in recent years has had a major impact on the pension system. There is a rapid increase in the weight of the pensioners to the workers. If, for example, one pensioner had more in 1979. Of the 3 employees, the ratio is almost one to the other in 2004. We have regions, most of which are rural areas, where there are far more pensioners than workers who pay insurance contributions to the Pension Fund. The situation is also compounded by the fact that a large part of the working population is unemployed or outside the legal labour market and does not pay the contribution to the Pension Fund accordingly. A large number of workers benefit from the payment of contributions. In particular, this is true of the simplified tax system. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! To address the problems mentioned above, further increases in the level of pensions of citizens depend directly. The first results of the reform give evidence of the integrity of the chosen path, the development of the national pension system, the potential for its financial strengthening in the course of the further introduction of new pension legislation. The support and close cooperation of the Supreme Council and the government in the implementation of further reform will ensure the acceleration of this goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u7	Yes, thank you. We're also going to the questions, aren't we, dear colleagues? Please don't go there, and then the minister. Please sign up for the question. One is writing, one is lips, one is writing, one is lips. Sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Gorlov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u8	Question of the next order. For individual researchers, pensions amount to up to 3,000 bracelets, while contributions to the Pension Fund amount to two thousand and two hundred and sixty bracelets. How will this be resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u9	Honorable National MPs. Thank you for asking. It's already settled. You have passed a law that provides for over 2,660 non-contribution. This amounts to pension benefits, including scientific pensions. But what I want to say is this particular detail. That the scientific pension, the pensions of government officials, the pensions of prosecutors, the national deputies are divided into two components. First, it is paid by the insurance companies who pay the premiums and then the difference is paid from the State Budget. So this question is settled. Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. What steps are being taken by the government regarding the timely and full receipt of pensions in full and the full funding of pension schemes? What I'm saying. Now all pensions are paid on time and in full. We don't have any pension payments. In view of the 12 - percent increase in pensions, the monthly demand for April was almost 2.9 billion dollars. I'm going to report to you today that this amount is now 100 percent funded. All they do now is pay. The government's further actions to ensure full and timely financing of pensions will be directed, firstly, to pay off the arrears of wages, to increase the number of employees in the economy and to involve them in the payment of insurance contributions to the Pension Fund and to reduce the debt of institutions and organizations and insurance contributions to the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u10	Kozlowski, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u11	Dear Boris Alexanderovich, many participants in the fighting of World War II. Afghanistan, other hot spots had rewards. And these rewards are only now found by many heroes. Is this issue settled for special merit to these heroes of ours? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. Well, you passed the law on pensions for special merit. And this is the law, and I'm just going to give you a few numbers. As of 01.01.2003, the number of these citizens was 92 thousand. As of 01.01.2004, 970,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u13	Boris Aleksandrovitch, and you say the ratio of the participants in the Great Homeland War, the participants in the fighting on the SND countries, including in Ukraine, and everything will become clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u14	Let's say we have almost 14 million pensioners in the war and over 3.5 million compared to 357. In Russia, 39 million retired participants in the Great Homeland War are 1.1 million. In Belarus, our neighbors, too, who suffered during the Great Homeland War, only 78,000 participants in the Great Homeland War. On average. It's about 3 percent to the total number of pensioners. We have over 26.5 percent of the total number of pensioners. It turned out that virtually those who were directly involved, for some reason, we divided them, dividing them all into all, having so many participants in the war. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u15	A letter, please, Boris Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u16	Nearly 40 percent of rural pensioners who started their jobs during the postwar years because of the efforts that have been rebuilt, destroyed by the war economy, now have the lowest pensions. In fact, they have long been likened to the social assistance of those who have never worked at all. It is hardly acceptable in this case to explain the low level of peasant pay at the time. Because he was a state. So shouldn't the state itself solve the issue of pensions for these citizens, and will this problem ever be solved? What size will retirees pay today 110 dollars after the next promotion in accordance with the Government's Ordinance of 11 March 2004? Well, I told you about retirement payments in the countryside. But if you'll excuse me, I'll remind you that we started paying pensions in rural areas for the first time in 65 years. We didn't pay anything before that. It was called rural detention. And you remember the size of the pension that was. And at the time of the creation of the Allied Social Security Fund, 50 percent of the fund was from the State Budget. And the payment to this fund was dependent on the profitability of the farm -- from 14 percent to 19 percent. To date, the government has made a decision accordingly to raise these categories that have not come under the law, and on an average, I called the pension payments in the rural area, which amount to almost 150 dollars. The law provides for everyone to be placed in a level of law, so we have entered a new phase of pension insurance -- the insurance system. Retirement will be paid. As far as compensation is concerned. You know that the law is also provided, but unfortunately, this introduction has been postponed until 2005. Of course, in other countries, experience shows that this difference should be made by the State Budget. I hope that, with the adoption and development of the new State Budget Act 2005, these costs will be foreseen. According to the Ministry of Industrial Policy, they will make up about 1.3 billion bracelets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u17	Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u18	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Boris Alexandrovich, I have a question for the Cabinet of Ministers, but it's interesting, after all, and your opinion. Agriculture in the days of the Soviet Union is an economic sector or an economic sector? Because the Cabinet of Ministers thinks that this is not an economic sector and therefore increases the average wage from 1958 to 1991, thereby reducing the pensions of citizens who would like to use these years to recalculate pensions. An Understandable Question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u19	I got it. Of course, in Soviet times, and now in the general economy, there's a sector like the agricultural and industrial complex. And certainly. The salary was also taken into account. But unfortunately, it was too low at the time, and so, given the methodology that was calculated, what was determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u20	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, PPU faction. Ah, the letters! Sorry, it's in writing, and then it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u21	Democratic Initiatives. "At what stage of implementation is there the question of creating a system of personalized data calculation? What is the level of information technology for pension reform?" The Personalized Information System on the Person has been in place and has been operational since 1999 in industrial mode in all local bodies of the Pension Fund. Since July 2002, this system has been used in the assignment of pensions. There are now over 26 million accounts in the SPO system. The pension fund produced and issued more than 13.8 certificates of general government pension insurance. According to the SPO, more than 10 million people have been sent reports of the state of payment of insurance contributions. In addition to the SPS system, the Pension Fund introduces automated processing of insurance payers’ accounts and software for the assignment and payment of pensions. All information technologies used by the foundation authorities are adapted to the requirements of new pension legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u22	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Deputy Shibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u24	Vitaly Shibko, Faction Department.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u25	Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. Boris Alexandrovich, I have no doubt in my mind that we have high pensions because I think that as a fund manager you will feel comfortable if these pensions are high and you are less gloomy. But I wanted to hear your opinion, given your honesty. Tell me, there's article 43 of the law that we passed. It's a law of direct action. You believe that this Council of Ministers regulation, 1378, has actually repealed this article of direct action or not, because it started with a direct action and eventually led to a level playing field. And then this high-level girl said, well, first, let's give everybody 4 percent, then 10 percent. And they went, in their own words, to the same methodology that existed under the old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. The thing is. This is going to be a set limit, which is going to be calculated for the payment of pensions. And that decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that predicted, first of all, 306 dollars, is calculated for retirement calculations. For example, in most countries where pension reform was introduced and used the pension database, pensions were paid off. I won't go far. In fact, the first deputy of Russia’s Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Lyublin Yuri Zinovievitch, was here for days, and he confirmed that in Russia the same method is used to determine pensions. To confirm my point, I'll give you a few figures. Look, there was just a question about the limit on which the contributions to the Pension Fund were made. It's $2,660. The average wage is more than 2,660. For help. In 2002, the civil service fund, which paid over 2,660 dollars, did not actually receive the pension fund. Next question. They asked questions in the village. Thus, in 2002, the agrarian pay fund amounted to 4.1 billion dollars, and the pension fund reached 580. That's taking into account. Taxes and payments on general grounds. And they're in the joint account. Retirement, that's the average wage. Me, too. Well, the methodology I used to tell you is that the structure of wages is made up of three components: the core pay fund, the supplementary pay fund, and other incentives and social benefits. Some of these contributions are not made to the Pension Fund, and they are charged to the average wage. Thus, the Pension Fund can pay only from the amount from which the contributions have been paid. There can't be a virtual calculation, there's no such thing as a virtual calculation. So this proposal was made, and the government supported it. I don't think there's been any violations here. And then it has to be that way. Unpaid contributions do not give rise to higher pension costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u27	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u28	Law enforcement committee. Why is Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, forming Ukraine’s state budget for the following year, trying to reduce the social guarantees of pensioners each year? For example, in forming the state budget, the government proposed article 22 of the bill: to completely deprive working pensioners of their pension if their salary amounts to a thousand dollars and more, and if the total pension income exceeds one thousand dollars, should the pension be reduced by an appropriate amount? At the time of the 2004 State Budget, Kabin proposed article 74 of the project: Take away pensions from working pensioners in general or force these citizens to quit their jobs. You know that the law is not adopted, this article is not adopted, and it does not work. TODAY, the total number of people who are retired and who have more than 2.5 million are receiving both a pension and a salary. Apparently, there is a great deal of suffering for those who have large pensions, large wages, but no changes in the law, people continue to receive both pensions and wages. Although there's a logic to it. They're asking You can think of Soviet times, there were 320 carbs, more than 320 and wages, and the pension was not supposed to exceed that amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u29	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u30	Oleg Belarus. Dear Head! I have two questions. First. Is there now a pension debt? And are you having trouble paying your pensions on January 1st? That's one question. And the second question. What is the proportion of pensions today at the minimum of living in the total number of pensions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u31	You know, since September 2000, we haven't had our pension payments. And there was a lot of thought about where the money came from, how it worked, but the fact is that the debt went away. Not just like that, but they were just incremental, consistent work on increasing wages, primarily through institutions and banks, and increasing deductions to the Pension Fund. Well, let me give you an example. 98th year: 20 billion were paid to institutions and banks. 345 million Over 62 billion were paid last year. Money through institutions and banks. If the money went through institutions and banks, you know, there's an immediate deduction from the payroll fund to the Pension Fund. This has enabled us to fund all payments in full over the last few years. As we have paid since January 1st in connection with the increase, we have made projections and, taking into account the growth of both the payroll fund and the change in some of the pension system, gives us the opportunity to say that we will be able to finance. Many discussions are about the transitional remnant of the Pension Ford. It's this transitional surplus, and it's essentially going under a cash gap, it's going to be able to fund pension payments during the first half of the year, because coming in the first half is always less than it needs to be. This gives us the opportunity to fund in full. And the fact that the government has set itself a task of increasing wages and increasing deductions from the payroll fund gives us the opportunity to talk about that these payments will be funded in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u32	Yes, the letter? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u33	"Dem. Initiatives: What is the level of readiness of the Pension Fund's staff to carry out pension reform? You know, there's been a lot done with the training of personnel, especially those who will be involved in the implementation of pension reform that will work directly with people. During September-June 2003, over 1,600 regional and local heads of the fund were trained in courses, and legislation was fully developed. More than 3.5 seminars were held for local authorities of the Pension Fund. Two faculties at the National Law Academy of the name Jaroslav Mudrogo and Odessa National Law Academy were opened each year, where 100 people were sent to the hospital and 50 people were sent to the hospital each year. This gives us the possibility that the basic mass of the personnel will be prepared. We've basically taken an exam for our employees who are going to be doing a direct recalculation of pensions. And that gives them an opportunity, well, for example, if a long time ago, when the former Pension Insurance Act was introduced in 1992, we've practically done these recalculations over a few months. It's too bad that people are still bringing us help now, and since he's got the help, he's back on the list of candidates, we're recalculating, we're entering a database system for the calculation of these pensions. We're fully equipped with a software product that was developed by the Department of Labour computing centre, and people are working in a normal technological mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u34	Basil Nadrag, a group of MPs called the People's Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u35	Dear Boris Alexandrovich, I have two questions, if you please. First. As from 1 January, when a new law had begun to work and new pensions had been paid accordingly, the main claims of pensioners were that of recalculation of pensions by the Pension Fund authorities on the ground. There's trouble, they're trouble. Tell me, your opinion and your assessment of the situation, it's all settled, and when will this be over in time, and the recalculation will be done? And the second question. The Act provides for voluntary participation in State pension. All of this is settled, and can it be said today that a person can sign a contract and voluntarily contribute money to get a normal employment pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u36	I got it. First of all, it was designed. material that is approved by Minnesota. And he's brought to all the departments of the Pension Fund. Indeed, an unprecedented influx reached the Citizens ’ Pension Fund in connection with the recalculation of pensions. And it turned out that, at the same time, the census was done for government officials, scientists, and, among other things, workers. But we tried to defuse this situation, and we hope that it will be resolved. And about the revaluations of pensions. You know what the law provides for in 2004 at any time to go to the Pension Fund for more information on your internships and earnings, and these pensions will be recalculated for payment. Regarding voluntary payment, instructions are provided, and the people are proved, this instruction to places, according to the law, to participate in voluntary insurance, in order to have an insurance service for retirement benefits in the future. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Most pensioners, members of national creative communities, are now in a miserable material position. Their pensions are clearly not adequate for their many years of creative and work - related contributions to the state’s spiritual and material treasury. Since Ukrainian legislation declares the high status of artists and the priority importance of culture in the development of the state, is it intended to amend the legislation on professional creative workers and creative associations with the aim of improving the pension provision of creative communities? What can I say? The National Pension Insurance Act provides for a level playing field for all categories of employees depending on the length of the service and the salary from which contributions are paid to the Pension Fund. With regard to creative workers and members of national creative communities in order to provide them with a high level of pension insurance, their creative contribution must be highly valued because of the corresponding reward that pays the contributions to the Pension Fund. In addition, creative workers who have the honor of being "national", "deserved", are the winners of state bonuses, are provided with the payment of pensions for special merit before Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u37	Yes. Oleg Petrov, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u38	Oleg Petrov, 211 constituency, NDP faction. Dear Boris Alexandrovich, according to the current legal and regulatory framework of Ukraine, medical personnel and educators who are under the age of 25 have the right to retire for years. At the same time, there are a number of cases, and I personally have in the district where health workers work in educational institutions and vice versa. Then people do not get the right to retire for years. Is there any chance that changes will be made to the existing legal and regulatory framework with a view to predicting the same benefit and to teachers who have higher education but who have worked in medical institutions and medical offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u39	Well, I imagine the teacher works as a pediatrician. That's an interesting question. And what teachers do is work in children's sanatoriums, where they teach general education, they have the right to a benefit. They're right. And the ones that I think you'll give us a list of -- we'll take a look around you and figure it out. Thank you. NDP. "In January of this year, the Law of Ukraine became effective "On mandatory government pension insurance, which provides for the recalculation of pensions for all categories of citizens who have reached retirement age, taking into account their employment and earnings. Now there's often a question that the recalculation process takes up quite a lot of time, and that's why the recalculation takes place over a long period and is being done today. Has the Cabinet of Ministers and the Pension Fund been provided with an electronic recalculation program to greatly facilitate the recalculation of pensions and ensure the effective implementation of the above mentioned process? If so, does this program provide all pension managers?" In all the bodies of the Pension Fund, there is the software required for the appointment and payment of pensions, including the recalculation of the new pension law. The purpose and recalculation of pensions is a software complex. The automated system for processing pension documentation based on computer technology is used in all the offices of the Pension Fund. The software complex takes into account the specificities of the assignment of pensions under nearly 20 separate laws, including government officials, scientists, national deputies, prosecutors, judges, journalists, special merit pensions before Ukraine. If we didn't have this software product and an appropriate material base, we wouldn't be able to make such a large number of pensions in such a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u40	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u42	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I would like to offer you one question that was raised by those people who gathered in front of the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. That's the point. So far, we've been dragging the drone's pension budget from the poor to the poorer, and people are asking if the government can find extra reserves and by the end of the year actually raise pensions for veterans, pensioners, people with disabilities who get them below the minimum of living for the incapacitated. What do you see with these extra reserves? Where can I find them? And I want to thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u43	Thank you. You know, we made up a good thing once. Colleagues. Kuznietsov for additional congregation fees for compulsory state pension insurance So the last two years have done the opposite: they've collected extra cash from us. [[And that's over 140 million a year.]] Last year, I was convinced here that if a deduction was made from tobacco c., the state budget would win. They took 240 million a year. At the same time, they promised that these funds would be reimbursed under the State Budget General Fund under those pension schemes that would be financed by the State Budget. So one of these little questions is the question of the coming of additional sources of pension funding. But we voted for it. And we've taken the opportunity to provide for extra expenses on pension insurance. And the main source, since we've entered the new pension scheme -- the insurance has stayed and will be for many years, we're not inventing anything new here, it's a deduction from the payroll fund. We have to make it clear today that if this is social assistance, it has to move away from the Pension Fund, it has to be financed by other sources. I've given you figures, in just one year, how many people we've had to pay for special credits to Ukraine. It deserves this payment, but it has to be financed by an appropriate source. Today, we need to clearly determine the financing of sources for other categories, including the supplements of the participants in the war. These sources should be separated, and then we will be able to fund these payments clearly and fully, including the increase in pensions to the minimum of living. And what's more, you know, the government has set up a task to increase the minimum payout, including that provided for by this legislation that was made during this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u44	No letters? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u45	What sources of increased employment pensions are foreseen by the government in 2004? Special Privatization Monitoring Commission. Maybe I'll do it again, but the main source is the payroll fund. You know, this year it's estimated to be over 90 billion. We're going to have about 73 billion dollars coming in. This is the main source of increased employment pensions. And as long as there are benefits, and benefits come at the expense of someone else’s, everyone today should pay on equal terms. There can be no less paying today and more getting in the future. Look, in recent years, I've been giving you figures, 7 billion are written off of the Pension Fund. It's just people didn't pay. And in the future, this is what the law provides for, if the contributions are not paid, a person has the right to appeal to the court and to withdraw from the employer this payment of the benefits in order to receive a pension in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u46	Please, Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Hard Ukraine, 160 constituency. Boris Alexanderovich, I'd like to ask you a question, perhaps you'll address it to the minister, but it's about the principle of social justice. When I work in the district, I'm asked not so much about the size of the pension, but about the fact that today pension levels get both those who earned today and those who don't have the right one, who don't have the right one, and they don't have the right one. [[Socialists]] And the second question is, tell the electorate how the principle of social justice will be regulated for those who have come out of high wages, they have a huge job history, but because of the coefficients, they have been reduced by the pension they receive today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u48	Well, I'll start with the last one. The coefficient is not reduced, but the coefficient is determined by the contributions paid. And those who have a lot of money and a lot of longevity today get a good 700, 800, up to 1,000 dollars. This time. The other one. Social pensions. You know, on the first reading, there's the Social Assistance Act, and I hope it'll be considered, accepted in time, and this source should only be financed by other sources of funding for this payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u49	Thank you. Please sit down, Boris Alexandrovich. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please go to the barrier. Yes, please sign in. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u51	Please start by writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u52	A written question, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Question: In line with President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma's letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of the direction of reform of Ukraine's pension scheme since October 8, 2001, the Government was entrusted with the provision of debt repayments for salaries and adequate payments to pension contributions. What is done in this direction? How many pension benefits have come from the outstanding debt from the payment of the salary? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You know that the authorities of the executive branch are paying attention seriously enough to the repayment of the debt from the salary. If you take and compare the debt from the wages that existed or existed and fixed on January 1, 2004, compared to the debt for 2001, it decreased by 3 billion 100 million dollars. And if you go back to the figures and remember what kind of debt on the payroll the government started operating in 1999, and that was 7 billion 200 million, it was crazy numbers, and I'm saying that the measures that were taken were able to reduce the debt and bring it to 1 January to 1 billion 800 million dollars. Moreover, if you take last year, 2003 and what was done by the government. With the increase in wages, we were provided with two jobs. First of all, it is to ensure that the current salary is paid at the same time, with a substantial increase, and in addition to this, the repayment of the salary debt and the payment of one third of the pay fund. I'm reporting. The monthly wage fund in 203 amounted to 5 billion, 600 million dollars. The total wage debt was reduced to 1 billion 850 million dollars, which is 32.3 dollars from the payroll fund. So this position was taken by the government. Additional funds have reached the Pension Fund for some 270 million dollars due to the repayment of the salary debt. In line with the new Government Programme of Action, which is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have taken on in general unprecedented and ambitious tasks, i.e. the full repayment of arrears on wages in 2004 and the total elimination of such a disgraceful phenomenon as the non-payment of wages. At the same time, once again, at the rate of 100 percent, the current wage is paid at a rate of not less than 25 percent at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u53	Please, Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u54	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Mikhail Mikolaiovich, we are working with you in a college of the Ministry of Labour, Labour and Social Policy. And so I'd like to hear what you've already done in your report. After all, no pension reform will take place until the fullness of the Pension Fund goes at a different pace than there is today. So your vision is, why do we have such a low percentage of the value of our wages? That's the first one. And the second. Well, you're supposed to support it with one hand, you're going to have to submit it on parliamentary and government days, and it's going to be about pay, and it's going to be about size, and it's already going to be a pension. We're talking about the consequences more and the reason we don't have the pension fund. Maybe we should.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, you know, you've asked the very right question that the government is currently working on. So there's no way to get the funds from the Pension Fund from where. Given the experience of other countries, we have left behind a solid pension scheme, that is, the pension fund funds are in the form of wage deductions. If we save this low wage that exists in Ukraine today, there will never be enough money in the Pension Fund. That's why the government is now tasked with substantially increasing wages for working Ukrainian citizens. Because it can't be, it's an absolute nonsense when poverty is among the workers. Today's pay needs to be increased for working citizens, and it's necessary for economists today to analyze the cost structure of production, to redistribute the structure in favour of the Labour Pay Fund. Well, today, the Labour Fund can't make up eight percent of the value of the product if the production is taken. Just as he can't make up such a low fraction of the gross domestic product. Today, we need to focus primarily on working citizens. We need to make a substantial increase in salary -- only then will the pension fund be filled. Only then will we be able to meet the requirements of article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine and bring the minimum pension rate to the minimum living minimum for non-working citizens of Ukraine. This is a moral question, a question that the government has asked itself, because we have a commitment to the citizens of Ukraine who have provided our work today and we have to provide them with a decent old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u56	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u57	"How do you guarantee the safety of the pension system? What methods are used to prevent the spending and theft of pension funds?" The country’s honourable national deputies, today regulated by law, are protecting the property and other legal interests of individuals with regard to the making of pensions, and there are the following types of government regulation and supervision in this area. In particular, with the purpose of using the Pension Fund's funds, we now have the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, with the law-abiding entities of the accrual system of pension insurance, this is done by the State Commission of Financial Services Market Regulation of Ukraine, with the operation of the company of asset management in the management of pension assets, the State Commission of Securities and Markets. If you move on, it will be done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to monitor compliance with the rules of the Law on the purpose of recalculation and pension payments. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine now has a law on Ukraine that reinforces the administrative and criminal responsibility of those employers who do not ensure the timeliness and fullness of their contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will support the government's position -- and we will do everything we can to make sure that the Pension Fund of Ukraine is filled, as well as to eliminate the understatement of the Pension Fund that exists today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u58	Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u59	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, a few questions. First: for small business contributions. There are several recipes for solving this problem, including fixed contributions. Has the Ministry calculated how much this will affect the small business system, since these are millions of jobs? And won't it destroy this system that's been working for years and is now creating jobs and making revenue into the budget? The second is about payers. The State budget should compensate the Pension Fund for their contributions, but this year it will not compensate. Is there any guarantee that you can give as a minister that the following year such a story will not be repeated? And that will result in the Pension Fund paying for them again. Well, that's the last of it. You said that the decline in the average wage of the pension is not a political issue, it's a technical issue. Please explain what his technique is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Mr. Kirilenko, your question is answered. First. You know that in carrying out the President's mandate, the government was, is and will be supporting small and medium-sized businesses, including Ukrainian citizens who are engaged in entrepreneurial activities, as well as Ukrainian citizens who are employed in entrepreneurial activities. That is why the benefits of paying contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund for these citizens have been preserved. But there is the principle of our ministry's position, which is that if the State and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting the laws of Ukraine, are to pay the benefits to the Pension Fund, it is also necessary for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide compensation to the Pension Fund of Ukraine from the State Budget. Today, it is not possible for citizens who do not pay contributions to the Pension Fund at the expense of other insured persons who have paid to the Pension Fund to receive pensions in the future. The same is true of agricultural enterprises operating on a fixed agricultural tax. Yes, for 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the State Budget Act on the implementation of the Act on 1 January 2005, and you know that our Ministry has made appropriate changes to the laws of Ukraine, which are foreseen since 1 January 2005, which will have to provide for compensation in the State Budget Act for the difference between the costs to be paid by citizens and those currently paid in part 68 percent of the fixed agricultural tax. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the time of the adoption of the State Budget, anticipates these costs, I am convinced that citizens working in rural areas will not lose this, and we will provide a decent pension to the villagers in the future, because today you have heard figures: in rural areas, 234 million dollars a year is being collected and 9 billion dollars are being paid. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are now paying at the expense of other insured persons who are paying contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. And the third question. It's a decree. Yes, you know, and that's exactly what Boris Alexanderovich Zajchuk was talking about, that the Cabinet of Ministers had decided to apply the Ukrainian Pension Fund and the State Committee of Statistics on Recalculation of Pensions for an average salary of 306 dollars. Boris Alexandrovich answered that question. You know, 100 percent of the pensioners made their pensions at the right time. In addition, the government has decided to increase the minimum pension by 12 percent. And I'm reporting that in April the pensioners received two reports: one piece of information is January, February and March, the difference between 12 percent and 4.2 percent, and in April, the pension has already been completely increased by 12 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u61	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u62	Ukraine's "On a mandatory government pension insurance" law provides for the calculation of the pension differentiated by the amount of salary and the rate of internship. How will the question of improving the pension of creative workers be addressed: writers, actors, directors, writers, dancers and circus artists, because some of them received fees, copyright awards, which in many cases were the only payment of their work, and some, in particular former ballet and circus artists, had age limitations and professional activities, the maximum working age of such an artist for 20 years? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I have already answered that the introduction of Ukraine's new law of no benefit or of any pension entitlement for an internship has not been cancelled; they are all in effect. With regard to the future provision of this category of pensioners, this will be done gradually through the introduction of corporate and professional non-state pension funds that will be able to accumulate deductions from these citizens in order to secure a decent pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u63	Please, Bondarchuk. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't take notes, first. And second, Mikhail Mikolaiovich, please don't answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u64	Mikhail Nikolayevich, Bondarchuk, Communion faction. You, when talking about your work with retirees, which has led 90 per cent of pensioners to be less than half the minimum standard of living today, you called this work a reform. Well, that's more of a terminology question, of course. Don't you think it would be better to call it genocide? That's the first question. And the second question. I know that in your ministry, people have been literate and, of course, have seen for a long time that the pension fund will not be able to provide life for the basic pensioners. Have you been told that there is a need to increase the income tax on persons with millions? We're not like you say, but at least for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. The question is very, very emotional and painful. And a lot of people today use it to run some kind of political, let's say, a company. I want to make the following point for you, the government has managed to increase the average pension in less than a year and has a minimum pension rate of 2.5 times. And we honestly and frankly say that we haven't done enough to have pensioners to live up to. But what we're saying today is, frankly, we have a strategy of gradually approaching the minimum pension to the minimum of living, and it's going to be done. And for the next one or two years, we will no longer have the poor among the pensioners. That's what the government is all about. And our steps and percentages, the percentage of improving the population's well-being, confirm the future and that we stand in the right path and do what is necessary for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u66	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u67	How is it decided to complete the list of positions of scientific, scientific and pedagogical employees of state-owned enterprises, institutions, organizations that are entitled to a pension and payment of cash in the event of retirement in accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In March 2004, a list of the positions of scientific, scientific and pedagogical employees of enterprises, institutions, institutions and higher education institutions of the third and fourth levels of accreditation that are entitled to a pension is approved. And I answer you. Scientific coworkers have the right to a scientific pension regardless of the organizations in which they work, including libraries and museums. As for other libraries and museums that are involved in scientific and scientific and technical activities, their time of work is considered to be scientific in the event that they have a degree in science and work for a specialty group in the field of science, which has been awarded a degree in science since the day they take office in this specialty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u68	Please, Kruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u69	Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich, we know both the Government and the Ministry are making a timely payment of the pension, a reduction in the delay in payment of salaries. And yet today, the salary delay, you said, has dropped from 7 million to 1.8 billion. And there is. Please tell me how it affects and affects the state of the Pension Fund. Does this not affect the timely payment of the pension and, in particular, the increase in the pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u70	Thank you. As I said before, we have a profitable part of the Pension Fund that depends directly on the salary payment, because we have a solid responsibility for working citizens to existing pensioners. And the increase in wages, it directly affects the filling of the Pension Fund and the increase in income. And that gives us an opportunity to raise pensions. In addition, the liquidation of the payroll debt, and the government is essentially on the issue of the fact that the pay-out is to be carried out at the same time as the repayment of the debt on contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. So this additional replenishment of the Pension Fund has given us an opportunity to raise the minimum pensions not by 4.2 percent, as planned, but by 12 percent. And that's why, as I say today, the country's distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the government is very seriously set up to have pensioners live up to dignity. And the percentages that I'm telling you today, the increase in wages, the increase in income from the Ukrainian Pension Fund, give us the opportunity to say that in the coming years, we will be able to get a minimum pension, a minimum wage higher than the minimum wage for non-working Ukrainian citizens and workers. For today’s unemployed, it amounts to 268 dollars, for the workers — 385 dollars. These are the guidelines the government has set for itself, and it will bring them about. If you look at what we said last year, that we're going to double the salary of the budget staff, that's what happened: in May-month, we went up 17 percent and in July-months by 12 percent. We said by introducing the minimum wage of 205 dollars, we would raise and restore the ratio from March 1, 2004. From March 1st to March 10.8 percent of budget staff have been promoted. That is, in less than a year of government work, we have an increase of 46 percent in government salaries. Tell me, what other government has done this in less than a year's work? And if we say objectively that there is nothing we can do, it comes from the objective realities of the economy. But if we say we're going to do it, we're going to do it the way we're going to do it in the government activity program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u71	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u72	Written question: "What measures are being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: drafting bills, government decrees and others -- to eliminate the imbalance in the pension levels of former military personnel and members of the primary and military internal affairs bodies who have retired in different years?".. It's a very difficult question. And, you know, if you analyze it, it's been growing ever since 1992, and it's getting more and more accumulated, and it's getting stuck. You know that by 1992, and many of our military deputies today have Ukrainian national deputies, the military's financial security was basically a salary, a salary for service of years and a salary for military service. According to these three components, the pension was calculated. This was until 1992. After that period, we had an increase in the military’s financial security, mainly for the purpose of paying allowances, compensations, and others that were not part of the three components. And so we've come to a situation where a flag that is now retiring is receiving a higher pension than a general who retired by 1992. It's a difficult question. And you know that together with the Ukrainian Supreme Council's profile committee, together with the Ministry of Defence, we are working on this issue. Last year we doubled this pension ratio by 10 percent, then 20 percent. But what needs to be done today is that today the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, needs to find the funds, because these are the funds that are financed from the National Budget of Ukraine, in order to transfer all kinds of military personnel, Ukrainian Security Service personnel, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in order to ensure that there are only three basic elements in the money: the salary, the salary for the service of years and the salary for the military title. Thus, there will be legal grounds for recalculating pensions for all retirees who have retired before 1992, and there is this problem since 1992. Only a serious and shared approach to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will enable us to eliminate the imbalance in the pensions of military personnel. And if you look at the Government's Programme of Action, which was recently approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's a separate item -- "Depositing imbalances in the pensions of military personnel." This is our common question, I'm sure we can work it out together. I think that if you really look at it, it's going to take two or three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u73	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u74	Alexander Stoyan, Head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, the 12 percent to whom the minimum pension has been raised, has not solved the problem of millions of pensioners. And today, in most pensioners, the pension is 90-150 grevens. You're saying that in the near future, pensions are going to be minimal to the minimum of living. Well, by my count, it'll be at least 10 years, God forbid. I want to draw you to another indicator and I want to hear your answer. Today the poverty line is 211 dollars. The average pension of millions of pensioners is a minimum of 90-150. Give a clear answer when you put out poor pensioners, millions of pensioners outside of poverty. They have another source that doesn't have a pension. That's what we need to work on. Tell me when and how. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u75	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I am pleased that the law on compulsory government pension insurance, you know, in the Transitional Positions, the Final Positions, provides that the Pension Fund will be governed by the principles of tripartiteism. I mean, Ukraine's pension fund will be run in equal sections by the unions and employers and by the state. And that's what we have in common. Moreover, by implementing Ukraine's law this year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was passed on March 1st, and three representatives from trade unions and employers, i.e. the Ukrainian Pension Fund, will work together with Ukrainian employers and trade unions. With regard to the poverty line, Alexander Mikolaiovich, you know clearly and clearly that there is no such statistical indicator, that it does not exist, and that it is annulled by law. We have a universally accepted minimum of living in Europe. That's the amount that we're calculating today. This is the magnitude that we have today clearly and clearly in article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and I think that this is our work together: both government and professional communities in Ukraine. They have to become active in filling the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, and employers of Ukraine, because they are paying contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund today, and only through joint efforts will we be able to eliminate poverty today among pensioners and among working citizens. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u76	Please. You may be dissatisfied, but that means nothing. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u77	Oh, it's a written question. I'm sorry, because there's something more interesting about oral questions. What measures are being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to organize a valid pension system, whereby the difference between minimum and maximum pension levels is 10, 20, 30 and more to bring it into civilized European standards, where the difference between minimum and maximum employment pensions cannot exceed just a few times. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Yes, in 2003, such a problem existed, to be honest, it still exists now. When the minimum pension at the beginning of 2003 was 45 dollars, and if we took the Ukrainian Pension Fund, we had Ukrainian citizens who received 14 pensions by 13, by 9,000 dollars per month. That was the problem. And the government introduced a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council, which imposed a limit on the amount of wages paid to the Ukrainian Pension Fund of 2 000,660 dollars and accordingly imposed a restriction that, if this amount was paid to the Pension Fund, there could be no pension more than the contributions paid to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. So today there's no more than 2,000,660 dollars out of the money we're paying to the Pension Fund. There is another problem. Yes, we raised the minimum pension from 45 in 2003 to 92 in the amount of 85 copies by 1 January 2004. But this is still not enough. The minimum payment is only 103 bracelets. We need to do everything we can today to make sure that, as I said, we have a minimum pension not lower than a minimum of living. And today we must make sure that the citizens of Ukraine receive money that would allow them to live in dignity in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u78	Thank you very much, Nadrag. Please, just 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u79	Mikhail Nikolaevich, the question is short enough. Under the new law, unfortunately, even with a very long period of service, very small pensions are given to teachers, doctors, that is, those budget workers who have worked enough in their lives, I mean time by time, and with a small salary, they do not have a large pension or an adequate at least pension. I know the Ministry is working on this. I'd like to know what and when are you planning to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u80	Dear Vassil Ivanovich, you know this is a question, it's in principle, it's painful. And even if I take it personally, I have the glory of God, the living father and mother, they're pensioners, and they were education workers. They have a huge workforce, but given the fact that the wages of their time and the Soviet authorities, and after Ukraine became an independent state, were low in education, this huge workforce is not affecting the size of the pension. And that's why, if you see, once again you're going to read the Government's Programme of Action, we're now working on increasing the impact, and it's going to be done in 2003, the amount of retirement for budget workers, it's a problem for both education, and doctors, and cultural workers, and social workers, and many others. So citizens who are over 35 years of age have to introduce correction coefficients so that they don't have a decent pension. This is the task that the government has set for us, we know these problems. And I'm convinced that we're going to solve this problem in stages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, distinguished voters. Today’s Government Day is one of the hottest and most painful issues, the state of pension insurance and the introduction of pension insurance. With all the other life problems of our citizens, especially pensioners, veterans and invalids, who form the most disadvantaged part of Ukrainian society, the problem of pension insurance actually remains the worst. To confirm that, I'm going to give these numbers again. Even after all the widely-declared promotions, 1 out of every 3 Ukrainian pensioners receives a pension of half and less, and only nine percent of pensioners, one in eleven, have a pension of 268 dollars and more, i.e. a minimum of living for the unemployed, approved, two years ago, which is less than 40 euros. This is for those who have European values and claim that Ukraine is ahead of all of Europe. By the way, our closest neighbours, Russia and Belarus, have corresponding pension security rates about twice as high. In other words, the state of pension in Ukraine is not European, to put it mildly. To add that 1 out of every 3 citizens of the state is a pensioner, a veteran, or a disabled person, it should be understood that the standard of living of a large part of the population of Ukraine is involved. Today’s conversation appears to be because we have been living for several months under the conditions of a long - awaited widely distributed pension reform. The pension reform, which at the stage of its push through the Supreme Council, seemed to be such a manic heavenly one that would solve all pension problems for all categories of the population, once and for all. And the vast majority of veterans believed it, because they say, "Men of State," they talk on the radio, they show it on TV, they write it in newspapers. Also, such fat youths in advertising say that the pensioner’s paradise life on the second day after the introduction of pension reform. Distraught pensioners today believed because they wanted to believe a beautiful pension story, and in fact the reality turned out to be much harsher and harsher. In view of its practical results, many view pension reform as another lie to the most disadvantaged part of pensioners, putting it in one row with the Savings, Trusts, Land Reform. The government report describes the enormous work that has recently been done. Indeed, much has been done. As head of the committee, as a deputy, who works very closely with the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and the Pension Fund of Ukraine, I confirm that very much has been done. I'll say even more: the central apparatus of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Pension Fund, its management in the areas, the areas that work last year, with enormous tension of 12-14 hours a day without weekends and holidays. And it's not their fault that the pension rate for today is that. Like the vast majority of pensioners, workers have become hostages to the situation in Ukraine. Who made her these hostages? Not taking away the share of responsibility from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, or from himself as its heads, I would like to say that the primary responsibility for the pitiful state of pension insurance in Ukraine lies with the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, more precisely, with the pro-Presidential majority of parliament, which, along with the faction of "Our Ukraine", has adopted the basic law of pension reform in that form, has adopted such, by rejecting many of my deputies, the deputy of Zibenka, amendments that would make this law much more acceptable to today's pensioners. Sadly, respected colleagues did not hear these warnings, or rather they did not want to hear them. But the main contribution to the theft of today's pensioners, in any case most of them, was made by the government, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, through the adoption of Decree 1783 of 20 November 2003, which had a promising title, "On measures to improve citizens' pensions." In fact, it turned out to be such a Trojan horse. This document actually averages the salary for 2002. which amounted to 376, it was reduced to 306. And then out of this money that was actually taken out of the pockets of all pensioners, the part that didn't fall under the Ukrainian law on general government pension insurance was increased by 4.2 percent. It is because of the adoption of the government’s decree that only 3.9 million people are living in poverty. Pensioners of 12.5 or 31 percent received an increase in pensions of 20 dollars or more. And 70 percent of the pensioners were happy with the so - called increase from a few copies to six bracelets. In individual regions, this figure was up to 90 percent. So how does this person, who is nine to 10 of the most underprivileged pensioners, have to view pension reform and its practical results? Minister, members of the government, you have done a depraved act, you have done what has always been considered the top of cynicism and decay: you have gone into the pocket of a German old man, a cripple, a disabled man, in the bag of your parents. For the sake of justice, it must be said that another decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has already been adopted to increase the amount of payment from 4.2 per cent to 12. But we've already received a lot of letters on the committee that veterans claim, and I think it's not without reason that in August 2003, 150 dollars, given the rise in prices and inflation, is more than that of January 156 and even April 167. So I wouldn't have been in a hurry to beat the winning Lithuanians over this promotion. The panellists may have pointed out that, given the acuteness of the problem and its exit to the electorate, the committee had prepared and distributed for the first time in the practice of the government’s days a review of the letters of veterans that came from the problem. I hope that those who do not have a heart of stone will be helped to determine their position from this painful problem. For only the blind one will not see that they are written, not by the shepherding, but by the image of men. Let me do just two examples. "Pension reform has only made noise and turmoil. Those pensions were added to the chickens to laugh, and to us, to tears," Jaroslav Medvid, Ivano-Frankowsk region. "We pay half-pension for gas, for electricity, the rest actually goes to medicine. And you have to buy some bread and some sugar to get a cup of tea. Believe me: sometimes it comes to despair to voluntarily go into non-existence so as not to be tormented," Jaroslav Vorona, Dnipropetrovska oblast. Believe me, I didn't choose the sharpest letters. So the first thing we have to do, and this doesn't require additional financial costs, is first of all to change the major, the winning tonality about the first results of reforming the pension system into a more balanced one. Now, let's say that these results are unique in the world practice of reforming the pension system, which is often made out of the mouth of individual government officials, is unfair and unethical in relation to those 11 million pensioners who have fewer pensions than a living minimum. For example, one of the tables given to the deputies proudly reports that in Ukraine since January 2004, regions with an average pension of less than half the living minimum have disappeared. Can this indicator be an object of pride? Yes, the regions are gone, and 4.2 million pensioners who get half the living minimum and less are left -- and that's every 3 pensioners in Ukraine. I'm not talking about 2.8 million pensioners who get a minimum pension in 102 bracelets. That means that the average is 3-3.5 bracelets per day. To compare, I will say that more is being made available to support one prisoner, and they do not pay for housing. Then some veterans ask what they were sentenced for. Many pensioners are offended by the fact that, despite the government’s claim that the employment system would now determine the level of pension insurance, all remained empty promises. They ask how it can be that after 40 to 50 years of hard work, a person gets, at best, 40 percent of his salary, while a civil servant and some other categories in 10 years receive 80 percent. Where is justice? The more important it is to create material benefits or to calculate them or distribute them. One of them. Today’s reform was an attempt to move away from a retirement pension. Sadly, it was not possible to resolve it. Moreover, it grew further because 70 percent of pensioners received 4.2 percent and now 12 percent of the so - called pension increase. Few, in parallel with its parallel, have in recent years formed a pension elite that receives tens of times the pension of an absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens. And these two kind of mutually exclusive extremes formed. gave birth to a terrible injustice in society. In connection with the introduction of the new pension law, a number of problems arose in small and medium - size business entities that chose simplified taxation regimes for their income. Needs an immediate solution to the problem of eliminating existing imbalances, and if you're right about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u83	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u84	It needs an immediate solution to the problem of eliminating existing imbalances, and, to be exact, gaps in the pension provision of former military personnel and members of the primary and military staff of internal affairs bodies who have retired in various years. With all due respect, let's say that the flag should not be considered a normal situation when Colonel of the 1980s or 1990s gets a pension equal to him. Many government decisions have not yet solved the problem. The question must be resolved by the end of 2005. There is an acute problem with the permanent provision of citizens with disabilities as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and they receive a pension under article 54 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. It has to be decided, too. To sum it up, I would like to point out both to the MPs and to the members of the government. Given the acuteity of the problem, that today's pensioner is a person who has worked hard and hard, who has waged a great victory over fascism on the front and back, we can't and have no right not to make a real pensioner's move. The state must properly fulfill its duty to this "gold" generation of Ukraine, who gave it strength and health as a youth, and now patiently expect it to take care of themselves. What should we do about it? If Ukraine's economic growth is not a bluff, but a reality, then the first thing we have to do is return all of the government's debts to the Pension Fund budget, which is over 4 billion dollars. It's different. All efforts not only by the Pension Fund but by the entire state apparatus should be used to increase the collection of pensions and the repayment of debts prior to the Pension Fund. Above all, the Government's Day should immediately establish a working group of experts from different ministries and departments to prepare changes to existing legislation to improve the level of pension insurance. Many suggestions came in the process of preparing for this law. There are already known categories of citizens whose pension status is the worst. These are budget workers, teachers, doctors, cultural workers. Serious cuts take place in the village’s workers’ pensions. People don't blame that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u85	Peter Stepanovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u86	And in the '90s, she wasn't there at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Let's talk about it. How do you view working without interruption, since there are so many who are willing to share in the discussion? Is there no objection? That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to ask the faction of the agrarians and the faction of our Ukraine to determine who's speaking out of the faction, because the Agrarians also have Kozlovsky, Rishnak, and Yushchenko, Pinzenik. So we're going to figure out who the faction is. Make sure it's on the board. Please, from the faction of the Socialists of Vernigor. Prepare Shurmi. Then, please, have a seat. The storm, from the faction of social-democratic. You don't? Then Kozlowski from the agrarian, please. Dear colleagues! And please don't write any factions down without the heads of factions' cars, because you see what activity. And I'm going to the faction leaders, direct this process. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u88	Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Mikolayovščina Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable members of the government, national deputies and invited. The issue of pension insurance is very relevant in our country, as it applies to 14 million of our pensioners. And the introduction of pension insurance concerns every pensioner and worker today. Undoubtedly, recent measures have been taken by the government to increase pensions. More rightly, their definition depends on the size of the wage and the length of the job. And what to do to education workers, to medical workers, to peasants, where the wages are the lowest in the state, is to make the pension low. In the process of implementing the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act, both the benefits and the discounts on the number of pensions have been found. After all, two thirds of pensioners did not receive a pension allowance. But he that has received an allowance is five, six, ten bracelets. And the formula for calculation is complicated and misunderstood for those who are primarily concerned because pension insurance has not become more equitable. As an MP, I was approached by medical personnel, nurses who had worked for 40 years, and a higher category that had been formed before January 1, 2004, who had received more than 200 dollars. This year’s pension is set at 160-170. What are these reforms? The same situation in agriculture and education. In fact, most pensioners have already been compared with those who have never worked at all. And people were sitting on a food ration, just like they were sitting there. In my district where I work, over 8,000 people get a pension of up to 100 dollars. And more than 10,000 -- from 100 to 120 bucks. These are our pensions that we're making reforms with you. Today, this methodology is common to all categories based on wage levels in the past. And this is right for employees of other sectors of the national economy, but not for agricultural production. Because in a more complicated and, at the same time, inequity of the pay system than the one in the village, starting in the 1930s, when the day was introduced, there was no and no one in the field. And millions of our people have gone through this system. And today, thanks to that wicked, cynical, and most of the symbolic wages of the work, they are paid with their meager pensions. So the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party believes that there is a need to radically change the pension insurance system for workers of agriculture and those types of population whose wages are not low because of their fault, to produce such a method of accrual of pensions that would correspond to the real situations that existed and existed in the country. We need to create a state pension fund. The faction of Ukraine’s Agrarian Party is concerned about what might happen if the law was extended to the peasants next year. During 2004, we were able to maintain an active mechanism for paying pensions through a fixed tax. But since January 1, 2005, nearly three billion dollars of payments to the Pension Fund have been placed on the village’s shoulders. What happens after that to the economy of agriculture? We need to look for a way out without serious help in this State budget. We are proposing that the 2005 National Budget of Ukraine allocate one billion dollars to the Pension Fund to compensate for the under-received income for the social protection of peasants and to provide five billion dollars to support agriculture. We ask the government to consider our proposals. The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party refers to the national MPs, to the government: support our initiative. There's just no other way. We must tell people the truth, and they will understand us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, from the faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party, prepare for the Frost. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u90	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear National Deputies! The pension reform that is currently taking place in Ukraine is certainly necessary and urgent. The parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party understands the existing problems of the pension system. [[united]] Because, first of all, they're inevitable in reform, and second of all, we don't consider the position of using calculations to increase ratings. Although we are well aware of those who are so intensely critical and brandishing today, we understand what they really want to accomplish. It's a shame the pensioners didn't benefit. Sadly, individual political forces have learned to respect their own people for their 12 years of independence and have taken it exclusively as an electorate. Pension reform, despite all the difficulties, was the only possible step in the further development of pension insurance. And Ukraine’s chosen path is not the worst, perhaps even the opposite. Whether many countries with economies in transition can be referred to as reforming the pension system, not only of future pensioners, but also of existing ones. In Ukraine, too, it is possible to recalculate the pension for the new formula, while guaranteeing that all benefits will not be reduced and that all benefits will be saved when calculating the workflows foreseen only by existing legislation. There were no unpopular measures such as rising retirement age, increasing internships and jobs, and we know what problems have arisen in a number of Western European countries in adopting these standards. Not only are such things not allowed to be noticed, but they are irresponsible and, above all, open to their own people. Another issue that neither the government nor the Supreme Council have succeeded in developing and adopting a legislative basis for pension insurance is how it should ensure the financial stability of the pension system and establish a clear and unambiguous definition of the average wage of employees. If everything is positive in pension reform and there is an enormous amount of it, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine sincerely welcomes it, we cannot agree with its separate positions. [[united]] For example, we clearly do not take an unmotivated decision to lower the average wage for 2002 to 3006 dollars. We find it unacceptable for the government to try to manage some of its motives in the pension system rather than the provisions of the promulgated Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. For the avoidance of such measures, and if you want to block them, the faction considers it necessary to arrange the state of affairs in approaches to the determination of the average wage, as well as to provide for legal conditions at the legislative level to ensure effective and effective government regulation and supervision in the field of compulsory insurance since the entry into force of the law. That is, we are convinced that the definition of average wages for workers employed in the economy of Ukraine should be based on the general wage fund, the income from which insurance contributions to the solidarity system were paid for the calendar year. The direct dependence on the size of the solidarity fund of the pension system and the size of the benefits accrued and paid in accordance with the law will make it impossible to continue to make any political decisions, including the introduction of pension benefits to the Pension Fund, as well as the narrowing of the circle of insured persons and the reduction of the pension contribution base. The bill was drafted by the deputies of the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[united]] We have a whole new set of claims to the government's approach to pension reform. But we clearly realize that improving pensions is not just a matter of executive power. Much depends on the legislator. And today's government information on the state of pensions and the introduction of pension insurance in Ukraine is suggested to be accepted. Fellow citizens, let us never forget that the good work is easy to start, but it is very difficult to put it into practice at a time when neither the system nor the mentality of the Ukrainian people are improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u91	Please, Alexander Frost, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u92	Dear listeners, distinguished radio listeners. Being in different parts of Ukraine, receiving an unprecedented number of letters, almost every one of them, and I'm not talking about meetings, at every meeting, the key issue is pension problems, the state of the population pension. People had great expectations, especially after there were a lot of pitches on TV about this, I just couldn't find another word. And now the same disappointment, because the vast majority of pensioners didn't get anything, that compared to the price increase, the cost of life, they feel that no one needs them in the state, and they even suspect that the accumulation today of individual and next to the social pension fund is just an attempt to get rid of the authorities just like those who need the support of the state. The government says he's done a lot. Pay what is due, try to do a lot, organize what is already there. But article 46 of the Constitution stipulates that a minimum pension should be at least a minimum consumer level. And that means that today's average pension is twice that much, I'm not talking about the minimum, it's 4 times less. So as long as we don't bring a minimum pension into line with the minimum wage at the minimum cost of living, until then no government, and there's likely to be a lot of them, shouldn't talk about any success. People try to survive by receiving 92 bracelets of pensions. It's only to imagine those who are present in the room, and especially more in the government bed, and so on, putting a person in such conditions -- it means that fiction is impossible to survive, and they're trying to make ends meet. If you find general, first of all economic reasons, they're going to be reduced to a low pension basis. More specifically, to a low wage. The rural population is the most affected in this regard. The rural population, which includes many who have not been paid for years. And businesses, organizations and institutions don't list anything at all with the Pension Fund for a variety of reasons, especially because of the lack of any income. So the comparison that the Minister says today, when he says that 250 million people collect from the rural population and pay 9 billion, you can see almost as little as no charity. But it's a charity for "get the fuck out," and it really isn't. Let us take a look at what people in general are surviving today. And you can be sure, at the expense of the village. In the last two years, agriculture has been looted on grain alone for some 10 billion dollars. We don't take that into account. Who took advantage of this income? What numbers went to the Pension Fund, and did they go? If we're gone, talking about doing charity for peasants, it's just not serious. A kilogram of grain is taken by 30 copies, and a kilogram of bread is 2 bracelets. What are the income standards? Is that what anyone was talking about? Who from this income counts the pension and cares for those who have provided these material foundations for survival. Same thing about teachers, rural teachers. 250-300 bucks, base. Is there going to be a normal pension from that base? Don't we understand that there should be sectoral coefficients for the accrual of pensions that have been missed at all during the development of the pension reform project? And then, I'm coming back again, just the only pension fund in the state, no farm funds, because we know what this is going to be. Then it's going to be that let's get your pensions out of the land by renting pies. No way. Next. You have to put an upper limit on the number of pensions, today it's unacceptable, especially on the solidarity fund. And then 7 million of the most active, laborers are working abroad. Whose budget do they work for? Whose pension are they working on? And we're looking for a way to deal with our pensioners. We need to write down in the regulation that we are talking about today to increase the number of pensions for war participants, starting on May 1st to the minimum of all the provisions of the Constitution. To remove thieves, money thieves from power. Put authority under the control of the people, then there will be work, wages, pensions that our people deserve. Only this path is a difficult but honest path.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u93	Please, Darling, the People's Choice faction. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Respectable listeners! Luhansk, Nadara. People's Choice. I think when we talk about retirement today, it can't satisfy anyone: neither sitting in this room, nor listening, nor watching the broadcast. But I want to ask you one question for everyone who says today that we have so bad that we have to talk about some, so to speak, catastrophic moments. What if we hadn't passed that law last year? Would that make it better? It would be better if we stayed with the ceiling of 150 bracelets of a work pension. And are we today, when we start talking about what's done, what's not done, we don't have enough black paint for anything else? And with this black paint, we want to go tomorrow, we want to set things right today. Therefore, we are deeply convinced that if we want to achieve something, we must try to be objective and objective about what we have done and who we have done. I would like to recall in this Hall that, unfortunately, very many people who say that we have very many issues in the pension problem, unfortunately, I will call it no longer, so to speak, a statement of vote. Where, then, have the honourable colleagues voted when I proposed, I, Nadrag Vasili Ivanovich, proposed the Act on certain matters of payment for compulsory public pension insurance for the number 2343, on amendments to the Law on Compulsory State Social Insurance, 3400 on amending certain laws of Ukraine aimed at increasing the income of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, 4250 and a number of others over the past two years? I'm in. They found no support, no resources, and no money to raise pensions, respectively. And when we talk today about what we have done, I think we should say what the Supreme Council has done, what the same Cabinet of Ministers has done or has not done. Unfortunately, there are fucking problems here. I spoke at the end of last year when the budget was being formed. We have to count the financial component on 1 January of this year. Unfortunately, that was not heard. We received a 4.2 per cent allowance and, in fact, we converted by 12 per cent. I have a question: "What can't be counted immediately how much can we add there?" To date, I have only adopted the basic Pension Reform Act. And in view of that, given the practical situation, I agree with all those who say that a normative framework needs to be refined as options. I believe that we must do something to specify the concept of average wages. Stop speculating, let's be specific. Wages worldwide are what the pension fund is paid for. And whether we love it or not, let's look at where there's a normal pension and go on their way instead of inventing our own bike. We must today, and we absolutely agree, to define the sectoral factors from wages and internships as discussed here. Because today, we have teachers, medicine, cultural workers, and what is called a budget, sadly, having up to forty years of age and over, we have the wrong pension that they deserve. We're deeply convinced that we still have to figure out the benefits. We have millions of people named Veterans of Labor. Unfortunately, it doesn't affect retirement. There's a problem today. The problem is that today the centre is moving towards the executive branch to reform the pension system. Its success, I repeat, will depend once again on the extent to which the economy will actually be able to fund pensions. Everything else is politics. And in that sense, I think the government has something to work on. Well, here's an example. In the Luhansk region, the pension fund is owed 57 million this year. And out of that money, you could count the pension, the average pension, 43,000 people. In the area of debt to the Pension Fund, if I'm not mistaken, about a billion bucks. And these are the finances that are needed and that enable us to talk about increasing the pension. Today we need to talk about payback. And here we need to talk not only about some punitive measures or convincing measures, but about responsibility. So today, as an outcome, I can only say one thing. In terms of all debts and wages of $1 billion,900 griven, we must clearly understand that 32 per cent is also pension resources. Last. Unfortunately, we also have problems under the Non-State Pensions Act. We have entrusted the State Commission for the Regulation of the Market in Valuable Services with the establishment of a regulatory framework. There is no legal basis. I'd like the Cabinet of Ministers to do that. And then the last sentence. Deeply convinced, retirement is everyone's business. Everyone has to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u95	Please, National Deputy Kirilchuk, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, distinguished pensioners! I would say that today we cannot present any problems to the Pension Fund itself. Having visited many district, city, district offices of the Fund, I say that this service works in the most conscientious way compared with other government services. But he works in the worst conditions compared to all other government services. And of course, these are the worst conditions for pensioners. It's a shame to look into these people's eyes because they don't even have anything to sit down to. And in this year, everyone to the only pensioner has to go through these cabinets at least twice. Local authorities do not care about this or, if cared for, is very unreceptive. All of today's pension problem lies in virtually today's regime, in the entire state machine we call power. Tell me, what's the biggest problem today? This is the coming of the Pension Fund. Because if they got there, they'd give it to the pensioners in good faith. Where is this money hidden today? We know that 60 percent as a minimum of the entire economy, of all production, and that means the money is in the shadow sphere. Let us bring it to our God, which means that we will immediately double the financial or income of the Pension Fund. Who will do this? Of course, this should be done and done by the authorities. The other one. It's probably a word like convertible wages, or one that appears in envelopes, that's much larger than what people work for. And if this converted salary were to bring God into the world, there would be an even greater increase in the coming of the Pension Fund. Let's take another example. Our unemployed people who work in the markets of Ukraine are millions of people who aren't set up for work, who only live today, who will come to the Pension Fund in a little while with tears, count your pension. Most of these people work for entrepreneurs who pay a fixed tax. And somehow only the taxpayers control this whole service. I think that if there's a tax fixed there for the taxpayers, there's almost nothing to do. This whole thing needs to be handed over to the social services of the Ministry of Social Security. More specifically, the Pension Fund. Tom, on average, receives between 500 and 1,000 dollars a month, and no job training is available. How to deal with this properly reduces the amount of unemployment payments, significantly increases the income of the Pension Fund, and less gloom in the Pension Fund. When they, the same unemployed, have to be retired. So there's no problem with coming or having a resource for the Pension Fund in Ukraine. An example. Please, Poland. In Poland there was also about five years ago a pension like today. Today they have $300 a month. But they also had 65 percent of the economy in the shadows five years ago, and now they're less than ten. That's where the salary comes in, where the pension fund comes in. Our authority is often in Poland, but for some reason that experience cannot be brought to Ukraine, for today it should not report either to the Minister of Social Security or to the Pension Fund or to the Committee. Today, personally, the Prime Minister, the Henprocurator, the Security Service and the State Tax Administration were to report on these problems. Then it would be clear that there are serious intentions for the polyps.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u97	Please, from the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" the word has the national deputy of Matvienkov to prepare Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u98	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, well, it's probably one of the sickest things we're looking at today. I guess she can't help but worry about anyone, because this topic is actually going through, well, let's say so, the soul and heart of every normal MP who works in the district. If before the adoption of this law we had to answer questions and fight with one problem: that the pensioners had all been disbursed: and those who had smelled apologized for such expressions, and those who had collected the certificates and all had the same 150 and 200 bracelets, then new questions had been raised after the adoption of this law to which the answers had to be sought. Unfortunately, you can't always find them. Well, first of all, they gave out the methodology. By this method, everyone recalculated his pension, recalculated, evaluated, viewed. There is a figure instead of 197 bracelets, 397 bracelets 307 bracelets. I'm asking myself, who needed this? I've already asked this question from this rostrum. Let's find out it's a mistake, a provocation, a deliberate move or someone deliberately did it. Why did they lift the whole country upside down and still get no answer? Why another list of average wages had to be published, which could not be addressed immediately. Next moment. The second problem, pensioners who retired before 1992, was the category of people who had achieved everything: both post-war and post-war farms had been destroyed, and unfortunately they had lost their contributions. These are the people who were equalized by the system of laws when their pension ceilings were laid down, and they received the same. And today this category of people is in the most difficult situation because, in fact, the answer to the questions is, "How can 156 bracelets live on provided that the subsistence minimum is 300 with extra bracelets?"--well, it's impossible to answer all the questions. From here on out, letters from here, from here, from here, from here and from here. On this subject, we can say for hours: How our people survive under these conditions. But, unfortunately, it is. I therefore believe that the first step of compensators or those additional payments to be received by the Pension Fund should be directed to this particular category of population. And not just those who get 156 bracelets, but those who get less living minimums, because they also go the wrong way. That's 150 of whom we're adding. I'm sorry. I don't have any more. There's a minimum of living, and that's why we need to get out. Second, we need to deal with the benefits. To date, 2.2 million people are receiving pensions and salaries. I don't want to talk about cleaners, babysitters, teachers who get this salary, but, excuse me, there are senior officials, there are pensions of 1 1⁄2 thousand and wages of 2 and a half thousand. There has always been a limitation of 300 rubles in the Soviet Union. Well, let's go back to this scheme in a soft way. And the money that we're going to limit here is going to be the kind of population that's pulling off its existence today. Second question to the Committee. That category really got us into a very difficult situation, grandparents who were actually born before 1932 on the first of January. And I'm addressing Mr. Cibenko's companion to his committee. Vladimir Seminovich Boyko and I passed this bill on several occasions. Let's go back to him and recalculate. Those who were born before January 1, 1932, let us compare them with those who participated in the war. Whoever was behind Ural, before Ural, everyone who was born before that time got away with it, I'm sorry. So what are we starting to share today, so to speak? Let's at least take this step to make up for the loss of pensions that we couldn't afford today. The next question is: the village. The subject has already been discussed here. My dears, let me put it this way: The village is dying, the village needs to be comforted. I can't figure out what we're doing in the village, who we're leasing in the country? 32 kopecks, those who receive a business should not pay, or two kopecks that a peasant should not pay? Two kopecks-- let's take the peasant off, so to speak. But a man comes to do business in the country, rents land, sells grain. Excuse me, why should we exempt this category from paying this tax to the Pension Fund? Why do we have to lose a lot of money here? Six million pensioners from the village - we only raise 10 per cent. And we need to get back to that subject. Next moment. Let's take a look, though, at the realisation of alcoholic beverages. I am addressing the Government, and I have raised this subject on several occasions. Even in the first approach, respected colleagues, in the first approach, this topic indicates that the unexploded stocks are inexhaustible, and we could have a source of replenishment of the Pension Fund. So let's go to them and finally open this door. We could easily compensate for this particular category of population. Fixed tax. People take huge squares, wagons, divide them into 15 to 20 parts, pay a fixed tax, not a penny, without contributing to the Pension Fund. Yes, business needs to be raised, and there's a system here, but we need to look for ways. I'm not going to list all these points anymore. I can only say one thing - my dear ones, this is the category of people who have fallen below the living minimum today, and today it requires protection - the protection of the State and our joint efforts. Neither the Government nor Parliament will solve this problem separately. Let's sit down, solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, from the faction of "Our Ukraine" the word has the People's Deputy Pinzenik, to prepare Noshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u100	Honorable National Deputies and Members of the Government! Respectable citizens! The main question that is of interest to pensioners in retirement is whether they have experienced an improvement in pension insurance or if they are getting better at living. And this is the main criterion for assessing government policy. Sadly, the answer to that question is negative. There has been no improvement in the social status of pensioners. For the vast majority of Ukrainians, the pension book became a poverty ticket. And the government's attitude towards pension policy has beautifully demonstrated today's Government Day, because the Pension Fund does not define pension policy, it is defined by the government. And only the government would have to report on these issues. Why did it happen that the growing economy does not add to the pockets of Ukrainian pensioners, but subtracts from this pocket? Why do Ukrainian pensioners feel no change for the better? The only reason and the answer is to look at just one plane -- the manipulation of power. The first manipulation is a known manipulation, everyone knows about it, is the underemployment of the salary used in the pension calculation base. This decision put the government in the pocket of each pensioner. The government passed a decree that exceeded the average salary rates for 58 years and reduced the wage by 60-70 in 2002. With one stroke, the pension base was underestimated by 20 percent. As a result, out of 14 million pensioners, 10 million received a purely symbolic estimate. To the pension, the pension allowance for 20 and more dollars received only 1 out of 4 pensioners. Inflation, price increases, and community services increased slightly. Along with colleagues from the "Our Ukraine" faction, we've been trying to resolve the problem of middle-sized pensions, because we're convinced that the Supreme Council should deprive Kabina of the ability to manipulate pensions. Sadly, when considering the bill in the Supreme Council, the majority supported, not pensioners, but a government caught hot in an attempt to get into the pocket. The manipulation of a friend. As a result, the so - called pension reform has increased discrimination in the pensions of citizens. Most citizens have a standard pension system. Yet there is a large group of elected categories of officials, national deputies and other categories that have a special pension scheme. As a result, there has been a widening gap in the pension levels of those with special pension systems and regular pensioners in Ukraine. And we have no right to close our eyes that this problem has increased dramatically. The third manipulation. It has to do with a key conflict problem. Economic growth leads to a reduction in pension insurance. Remember last year's figures: pension growth by 12 percent and inflation by 8.2. But consider the structure of retirement. They have mainly food. The real size of the pension in Ukraine has fallen. We've come across this year with a shocking fact that the budget is being falsified. And that's where the hidden resource is to improve retirement. I'm going to remind you of the number again. Income cuts are not less than 10 billion dollars. The lower income of the Pension Fund is essentially due to the underemployment of the Wages Fund, which is another 5 billion dollars. If these 10 billion dollars in the amount of 7-8 billion go to raise the wages of doctors, teachers, cultural workers, taking into account the underpaid wage fund, we have a 25-30 percent pension. The situation that has arisen with the pension provision of "Our Ukraine" considers urgent consideration of making the following decisions. First. Cancel the illegal government order in 1783. Return to the legislative settlement of the average wage problem. Third. Go to the only rules for the definition of pensions for all categories of citizens regardless of their status. We also require an immediate consideration of the bill on urgent arrangements for the allocation of hidden incomes of the budget, which allow for an increase of 30 per cent in pensions for Ukrainian pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u101	Please, from the faction of "Trouble Ukraine" People's Deputy Noshenko. Get ready, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, Trudova, 160 constituency. First of all, I want to say, continue with the topic of speaking, mention in a good word those who face-to-face work with pensioners today in the regional governments of the Pension Fund. Today, they are able to carry out an explanatory work for us to contain a social explosion. Working really in conditions that do not meet modern requirements, individual workers have to wait in line for 5-6 hours on a computer to sit down and make a recalculation of pensions for their established pensioners. That's the first one. The other one. Obviously, the first step is taken. And you can always make an estimate, but what if? If, for example, we were not in this session room and did not adopt the two laws that are being discussed today, we would be criticized. The first step is done. Remember, she is present in all activities. Since 1996, the government has developed legislation on pension reform. And only this composition of the Supreme Council, this composition of the government, the government of Yanukovich, took the first step that three governments and two summits failed to take. Now you can talk about what a goal has been achieved. Speaking of populists, it didn't grow. And we, too, are told by the faction that we don't have the size of the pension that Ukrainian citizens receive today. But you have to really get out of that retirement bag that you can only take what's there, or else we can go back to the pension debt situation and go back to paying the pension in two pieces. The other one. I'd like to go back to the question of social pensions. 900,000, almost, millions of Ukrainian citizens will receive a social pension today, despite the fact that it is the minimum size, the minimum payout, but they are paid monthly, as of January 1, the social pension has not been granted, and so the question is to accelerate the review in this sessionary Hall of the Social Assistance to Persons Who Have Not Been Entitled to a Job Pension. And here we'd be thinking. Most of all, I have references in the district not so much about the size of the pension, but about the people who are 30-40 years old and the people who haven't made a single year for reasons that aren't defined by legislation have. It's almost equal to the size of a pension. The other one. We know that the basis for increasing pensions is the size of wages. And our faction will insist that we speed up the consideration of parliamentary hearings or the government's report on the issue, on this issue, from a complex issue. Please tell us where our hourly wage is promised. When will he be introduced? This year, the unemployment program ends. We need to give us at least a bologna so that we can consider the next steps of the government. Another question is pensions for special merit. It was from the filing of our faction that changes were made to the Law on Retirement for Special Credits. And we put this situation in motion when 60,000 of our citizens were in line for the assignment. This year we made a mistake and stopped the commission’s work on the assignment of special merit pensions, which today work for district government administrations. They only left the commission at the Cabinet of Ministers. Again with the queues, again with the discontent. In conclusion, I want to say that the first step is taken and the step this gives real results, especially for those who retire today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u103	Please, from the Communist faction, Peter Simonenko, prepare to be dusted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, dear many-suffering constituencies. The problem that has been brought into the agenda today is the survival of 9-10 million of the most disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine. And there is, in our view, no exaggeration. Ukraine has lost more than 5 million citizens since the economic, agricultural, banking, military, educational, and health reforms during the years of independence. Its contribution to this policy of genocide has been made by the authorities and, above all, by the executive branch of power, including pension reform. The government loudly reports huge gains in raising the living standards of Ukrainian citizens, including pensioners, 80 percent of whom demand that such a pension reform be put away. The vast majority of pensioners feel and feel that they have been brutally deceived by this pension reform. It's not for the people, it's for the people. Not only did it not address most of the pension problems but it further exacerbated them in society. Understanding all the acute problems, daily communicating with the disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine directly, we, the Communists of Ukraine, made an open letter to Prime Minister Januković and to the President of Ukraine demanding to intervene immediately in this situation. The Communist faction notes that the situation today is extremely volatile and therefore requires immediate response. He would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the Ukrainian Law on General Pension Insurance, which caused resentment among many pensioners, was accepted by the majority factions who formed the government and the "ours" who today are more vocal than anyone about the first consequences of pension reform, even though they themselves are party to this legislative crime. In addition, the Cabinet Order 1783, which is anticonstitutional, illegal, reduced the average wage for 2002, which is one of the elements of the pension recalculation for all current pensioners with actual 376 to 306 dollars. I refer to the members of the government, the knights of all possible and impossible orders, you have done what all the time in all the nations were considered extremely cynical and rude, the limit of human fall -- you crawled into the pocket of a poor, poor, crippled man, stealing his Soviet money. More than 4 million Citizens, and this is 1 out of every 3 retirees, have less than half their pension. Here's all the stability and all the activity and economic growth. By expressing the will of millions of our parents and mothers, we, the faction of Communists, propose: (1) To immediately repeal Cabinet Order No. 1783, at least its second paragraph; (2) To submit a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the basic pension law to ensure the retirement of budget workers, teachers, medics, cultural workers and the agrarian sector. which is most affected by the pension genocide; (3) Prepare immediately, during 2004-2005, to implement the government's minimum pension scheme for living minimum; (4) Establish strict government control over the prices of primary commodities, primarily food, to prevent price increases, by September 2004, to lower prices for flour, bread, meat, oil, sugar to April/May 2003 levels. To implement the Ukrainian Money Income Index Act, immediately index the wages of workers, scholarships, social benefits and pensions to the real value of inflation for 2003 at 20-25 percent. In May 2004, a minimum wage of 237 dollars was introduced. Find the funds and compensate for the loss of the most vulnerable population who suffered from price increases in 2003. We're also proposing to re-establish jobs and we're making this proposal: those business owners, and many of them got them illegally, who have reduced the number of employees, taken back and returned to state property all of these enterprises, they're working against the people of Ukraine, and they're severely exploiting people. Secondly, the policy of wage formation is to change and get wages out of the shadows by lowering taxes on wage funds. Adopt a law establishing a State Compensation Fund to recover stolen savings. This bill was introduced by the Communist faction. But the main conclusion is that we need to look at the concept of economic reform and put an order in the state. The Communist faction suggests that our proposals be taken into account in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on today's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u105	Thank you. The factions have ended. Let's go to the list. Please, Dusty. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u106	Peter Poshenko, head of the Solidarity Party of Victor Yushchenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear TV setters, radio listeners, first of all, I would like to welcome you to the celebration of the Light Resurrection of Christ. Unfortunately, though, the holiday mood in dealing with this extremely painful issue for the vast majority of the population of Ukraine does not exist. What is it? For one thing, today three or four speakers mentioned 46 articles of the Constitution, which clearly stated that the level of pension insurance could not be lower than the level of subsistence allowance. If the government today is unable to clearly name the term when this article of the Constitution is being implemented, it means that the government is unable to carry out the tasks set out in the Constitution. This means that this government should resign. What accounts for today’s deterioration in the standard of living of pensioners during this very government? Many speakers today referred to the fact that, at the rate of inflation, eight percent, with a 12 percent increase in the price of food, of food, which now accounts for almost 90 percent of the basket spent by pensioners, prices rose by 30 percent. So in the end, every pensioner's living money went down 10 to 15 percent. And when today's famous Social-Democratic Party representative Igor Shurma, who has no representative in the room now, by the way, and that means the attention that the political forces, including those who are part of the parliamentary majority, are giving to this extremely painful issue, he suggested in his speech: let's accept the government's work on pension reform as satisfactory. [[united]] How can we look into the eyes of pensioners, many of whom are now listening and watching TV, knowing that 80 percent of them think they are being deceived and even try to somehow offer steps to improve their condition, and simply take decisive steps to preserve the image of this government. Of course, for many years I've known both Dmitri Tobacco and Michael Papiev and Valentin Zeichuk, I have no questions before the scarce money in the budget is distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u107	Boris Zajchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u108	Boris Zajczuk, I'm sorry. ..the scarce money that's in the fund's fund fund today. Surely there must be a Prime Minister here, there must be a First Vice-Prime Minister who is responsible for the economic bloc, so that at a professional level with respect to the Ukrainian Parliament, we can finally have a discussion about whether there is money in the country that we should be directing to retirees, where we would actually be providing 20-40 percent of the increase in pensions in the country right now. What did the government offer? I would like, as the head of the Committee on Budgets, to turn to you and remind you of some of the steps that have been in the budget that the government has offered us for our first reading and what decision has Parliament taken. First. Of course, there was a standard that was intended to limit pensions to working pensioners. That's where we're going to get the money out of the pensioners' pockets today. Second position. To reduce the minimum wage, these were government proposals, which they went to in December 2003 for reasons of budget failure. The budget was executed, and the funds went the other way. That means that the Pension Fund didn't get a billion dollars last year on a minimum wage manipulation, and this year 4 billion dollars didn't make it to the Pension Fund. Third. So today, my dear colleagues, I'm paying you attention, the esteemed radios and TV viewers, over 2,000,660 bracelets of people who get this huge salary don't pay a penny to the Pension Fund, what I'm going to pay, and the rural teacher and the pensioner pay 32 plus 2 percent. These are the ones that this government is protecting, and the ones that it's trying to get out of his pockets. Of course, speaking time does not allow for a detailed explanation. I'll pass on the draft decisions that will be prepared. But I demand that the government's work in the pension sector be considered unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u109	The word has a national MP, Puzakov, to prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u110	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. The Ukrainian veterans, promised by the President and the Government an “increased” pension, were indignant, bitter and insulted. Raised 9 million pensioners to 3-6 bracelets and praised themselves for their great success. How can a pensioner live if the drugs were traveling, the prices for the necessary food are rising daily, the tariffs are rising, and the minimum pension is 102 bracelets? What should a pensioner do? Government action on pension reform is seen by the people as the deliberate destruction of the older generation, as genocide, as an unprecedented crime against a human being, as indicated by the so-called world government, which has determined Ukraine to reduce its population to 18 million. How many can you rob your people? First, they stole the black-day deposits, and then when the black-day came, they stole the pension, and they took what they put on each trainee for many years. Counselors, respectable officials. Although there are no dignitaries, chief government officials and the "union god of Ukraine" Stoyan in the hall. So who can advise you retirees how you can live on a 102 dollar pension against a sharp total power attack on the benefits of the disabled and the elderly? After all, the pension of 102 bracelets is four times lower than the subsistence minimum. How can you snatch so brutally and cunningly into that poor "destructive" penny? The situation is further exacerbated by the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance on Measures to Improve the Pension Insurance of Citizens, where the illegally average salary for 2002 is one of the bases of recalculation, the recalculation of pensions for current pensioners, depreciated from the actual 376 to 306 dollars. As a result, the so-called "calculation" became a fiction, an empty formality that, apart from disappointment and resentment, brought nothing. These are already paid in March, and again 80 percent, and this is more than 9 million of the most underprivileged veterans have not received any pension increases under the law. The same 6 - year allowance of 32 dollars remained the same, and in some, it was even removed from retirement for up to 40 dollars, and for what reasons is not known. For example, Kuprina Natal Kuzminický in 1913, who lives in Kirovograd, received a pension of 135 dollars, has been held to this day by 40 bracelets, motivated by the fact that by law she should not receive them, not by this woman, after working her entire life, since she was a young man, and by the war and reconstruction period, she earned a pension of 95 dollars. And such cases in Ukraine, unfortunately, 47 percent. Only a criminal regime can resort to the law of the wolf, a strong one takes away from the weak. In these, not human, actions of deep disrespect, cynical abuse of the older generation are the criminal acts of today's power against its own people. And in this situation, I can't help but convey the word of the electorate, that is, not let them open their mouths about the sweet promises during the election campaign, the people have given up their faith, the support of the simple people in the elections will never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u111	Thank you. The word has the national MP of Vernigor, to prepare Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u112	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Honorable colleagues, members of the government, pensioners. First of all, I'd like to point out that today we can't enjoy the fact that the government has approved the concept of a step-by-step approximation of pensions to a subsistence minimum. Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich as social vice-premier, as a scientist, you should understand that the gradual approximation of human life to the eternal limit is much faster than the gradual approach to the minimum subsistence minimum, which is to the limit of under-security. No more medals and medals are placed on the bosoms of veterans, so the authorities honor their war feat. But have those who honor them been harassed that veterans still want to eat and eat? When they received their pension for the first anniversary medal, they were able to buy a bicycle, a suitcase, and bread and bread for their retirement. Today, veterans cannot buy bicycles in a year, and they can only dig ten times less on their pension than they once did. Veterans believed in the chiefs, the press, and the authorities for the rest of their lives. Why have they been planning these pension reforms for two years so that they will now fall at the heart of the pensioners ’ tables? Where is the rule of law and law at last? Why the constitutional guarantor did not veto a number of social laws on the anti-national decree of the government that nullified the pension insurance law. We all realize that whatever decisions the government takes, whatever reforms it does, and as long as the minimum wage is twice as low as the minimum wage, we can't wait for our pensioners to get that minimum wage. Surprisingly, the reforms followed the scenario of their father, Adam Smith, but he warned that the underpayment of one cent would lead to the richest nation in the world. That is what happened to Ukraine. Thus Moses led the people out of the wilderness, and our people followed their ways into the wilderness. So it is not clear, as the President has determined, that bad, even poor people are living in people who have not been able to adapt to market conditions. So who's adapted? Did the one who robbed people deceive them? The one who declares millions of profits in his declarations today? The Constitution does not require authority to give its citizens pleasures but merely a minimum of living. Is that not enough of a minimum conscience to raise pensions today? And I support Alexander Moroz's statement that our faction has filed and will insist that by May 1st, by Victory Day we adopt, at last, a law that war veterans should receive no less than a living minimum. And I want to do a little arithmetic here today. The thing is, we have three million pensioners involved in the war, thank God they are. But we know that out of these three million, some part already gets more pensions than 50 or 200 dollars, so not three million we're going to have to provide, but less. And may they be happy, and health, that they may continue to live in order to await that promised limit of security, the eternal limit. The comparison in Soviet times that we refer to today was based on stable pensions and stable wages, though small. And that's why it was balanced. Today, five and seven times the maximum pensions of the smallest are already a crime. And that is the will of the wicked one, when the government weeps that there is no money. Let's go back to the benefits, and we'll find these funds. The adopted Law on General Pension Insurance, I think it should not be the same as yesterday's show of the Hindu 1+1 program, which for 60 years does not eat and drink, and lives, only does it. I think we should feed our people with our Ukrainian bread, and only then will we honor the veterans for their war and labor. And I think our authorities should finally take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u113	Thank you. The word has the national deputy of Gerasim, to prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected members of the government, respected voters! Today's issue of pension insurance affects the vital interests of 14 million people. Veterans, that is, those who built cities, factories, factories, during the Great Homeland War, protected their country from German-Fashistic invaders and, after the war, raised Ukraine as soon as possible, highly developed its economy, science and culture. The economic potential they have created, despite the upheaval, has been successfully exploited by Ukraine over the past 12 years. Thanks for all of this, the country has provided them with miserable pensions that prevent them from buying the necessary food, medicine, housing and utilities. Prices are constantly rising, and the smoke has increased prices for bread products! As a result, 85 per cent of these deserving people are now living outside the poverty line, receiving a pension of 2-3 times less than the subsistence minimum than the gross violation of the requirements of article 46 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Veterans'hopes and pension reform have not been met, resulting in 80 per cent of pensioners receiving a pension allowance of three to 10 bracelets. The Cabinet of Ministers passed Decree 1783 of 20 November last year entitled “Improvement of pension insurance” on the basis of pension accrual calculations has unduly reduced the average wage for 2002 by 70 grevens in the amount of 300 bracelets. Thousands of former teachers, health workers, co-workers and others, and other categories, were illegally selected. Despite repeated treatment, there is still no elimination of discrimination in the provision of military personnel who have been dismissed before and after 1992. The living conditions created for pensioners and veterans led to the premature departure of thousands of people from their lives as a result of constant malnutrition, high food prices. Over the past five years alone, more than two million war veterans have been killed, and the number of participants in hostilities has doubled. There is now much talk of famine and genocide in 1933. What about the lives of most retirees and veterans today? Instead of worshiping these people for what they have done for the country, what they have done for their people, creating normal living conditions for them and, above all, raising pensions to the minimum of living, the country is doing everything the other way around. That's why the lives of retired veterans get worse every day. In their numerous appeals, letters, veterans and retirees will not adopt such policies, calling it nothing but an open genocide and a public famine. Veterans' letters express the pain and insults of older people by the dissatisfaction of their living conditions, which often leads to suicide. The Council of Veterans'Organizations of Ukraine has repeatedly brought these issues to the attention of the authorities, but unfortunately there is no movement yet. Veterans require: the first is the immediate solution to the increase in pensions to the standard of living; the second is the abolition of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision 1783 of 20 November last year; and the calculation of pensions is based on the average wage for 2002 of 370 bracelets; the third is the elimination of discrimination in the pension security of soldiers who have been dismissed before 1992 and later; the fourth is the return of their contributions to the savings banks to veterans. Fifth. Reduce food prices. The fulfilment of these requirements will, to some extent, create less bearable conditions for some improvement in the lives of older people. Allow me to convey the message that has been handed over by the picketeers today in order to convey to the Prime Minister for implementation. And the last. We ask that the veterans do not ask that today's hearings in Parliament remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u115	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Masenko. Prepare Frosty Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u116	Deputies, present! I would like, first of all, to pay attention and to support MP Prashenko in the fact that the minister here, speaking, thanked everyone who supported this pension reform bill. They're not in the hall today. And when it was stressed that there were few Social Democrats, the representatives of our Ukraine were not as dense as those who fully supported the bill. We can see who is who is who is who and how it supports this poor part of the population of Ukraine. In government documents, it's about stability, about GDP, about growth, and it's going to get to a very simple person, and they're going to see what it is, and what it's given to a very simple person is that they can't. It's a paradox. As one man here once said, he was in the Supreme Council, anons. GDP is growing. Stabilization has been going on for several years now, and the standard of living is falling, falling, and falling every year. How far can it go? So let's not let that GDP get any better, and let our people's standard of living grow. How long are we going to torture people? They're going to focus on the fact that we don't have enough pensions. But it's a human shame. What 50 percent? That's 150 percent, 100 percent talking about the limit of undersecurity. Let those who voted in favour of this bill who did this reform give a 100 percent guarantee of 268 dollars. Will you live? None of you will. None of you will live. And we grumble about 50 percent of the living minimum. He's getting a pension, and that's good, that's already a government achievement. What are we talking about? Both the heads of the foundation and the minister, well, there were tears about the very low level of rural pensions. Who prepared the bill? What could not have been created a coefficient that would have provided the appropriate size of the average wage to calculate pensions, or let what we now have in agriculture? Who has proved agriculture, as it is now, that no one can earn a pension or a living there? And now we shed tears about what is happening in the village. And that's exactly what you've proved, the agrarians of those who don't now, they've voted to the fullest extent, and they've done all the criminal laws that they've done. Well, one man doesn't change the situation. I apologize to you. One man for the radio to hear. And we don't talk about that. Only those who receive little now, and what do they do now, how do they earn their pension? They don't have a job, they don't have a salary. And it's a masculinity. The minister says there's an increase in income on the basis of pay for pies. But it's a human fear. Take those pies and try to live on them. They produce 500-600 dollars of grain per tonne, and only 300-400 tons can be sold, and it's reported that the farmer received 500-600 dollars of income per year. So who are we kidding here, good people? Let's go back to the faces and to those who went to the military pensioners who went to 1992 that we were no longer able to pay them the pension they needed. And all they're saying is that there's not enough money, and there's money. Let's take one million and have more income, at least 1 percent. Let's count it down to the Retirement Fund. And we're going to have the pension fund that much. I don't think we're gonna talk about this. I know from practice how much you don't talk anyway it's going to stay that way. However, it was the MPs who assembled and adopted such a law, who supported my proposal. And the President is already retiring, and he's going to be given 5 hectares, and he's going to be given a pension the size of a living minimum, and all those who supported this bill, and they're going to try to live, and then they're going to tell people, we're living, you're going to live, and so are you.Oh, my God!They say they're holding 50 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u117	The word has been given to the national MP, Frost. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u118	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, faction of the Communist Party." Dear Adam Ivanovich, members of the government, colleagues! Today, what question we have not discussed in the walls of the Supreme Council is always relevant. But the more up - to - date issue we are discussing today may be difficult to find today. Each of us understands that there has been an extremely explosive situation in the country in connection with the beginning of the practical implementation of the pension reform, the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Unfortunately, this law does not solve the problem of decent human work pensions, but rather translates the full burden of reform into the shoulders of the pensioner himself, the veteran and the disabled. The situation was further exacerbated by the adoption of Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1783, which deprived the very disadvantaged part of the pensioners of the slightest chance of improving their lives. The Communist faction insisted on a return to this question, and already in March of this year, questions were raised about the annulment of this decree number 1783 of the Cabinet. But only 192 deputies, including the Communist faction, supported a decision that suits the interests of the majority of the country’s population. So the number of references and letters that we are approached by deputies in circuits who work in the districts during receptions and meetings, at least they come from other branches of government, sound something like that. What a mechanic and animalist is responsible for, in 40 to 50 years of hard work from dawn to dawn, getting a pension to reform from 90 to 150 dollars, and after reform, 93 and 156 dollars. What a doctor and teacher who worked hard to protect the health of our citizens and raised an adult generation, gave up work after 30 to 40 years, and now received a pension of 6 dollars 30 copies and received about 156 dollars. Who invented such a coefficient that whoever worked for 25 years, let's say the doormen, the ambulances, I don't have anything against them, got an extra 6-30 bucks, and the ones who worked 40 years, also 6 bucks 30 bucks. Why did it happen that in the Baltic countries, which are much poorer than our country, the people live better there, and pensions in these countries make up an average of a hundred dollars. And there's no way we can beat a $20-30 pension rubble. Pensioners ask, where is it that executives receive 1200-2600 dollars of pensions and perhaps much more at higher levels of authority, and a teacher, a doctor, a peasant, a meager pension? Our pensioners are wise people, not only asking questions but also telling the government how to improve their lives. They advise the government to consult, to consult, it is not difficult to do so, and by telephone with the government in the Baltic region, Belarus, Russia, at the expense of which pensions should be raised. And a lot of them advise, if you're having a hard time, the state doesn't know where to take the money, so let's take a differentiated approach from the President to the technician, so that the break in pensions and wages doesn't go beyond 100 to 150 dollars, like in the USSR, and don't make any coefficients, and don't fool people. I did a brief review of the issues that pensioners are addressing. And the specific proposals for pension reform they made today were out of the mouth of Communist leader Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenk, and they're submitted to the government, to them, I think it's worth listening to. Finally, let us finally implement the Constitution of Ukraine, article 46, which states that pensions, other forms of social benefits and aid, which are the main sources of funding, should ensure a standard of living that is not lower than the subsistence minimum set by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u119	Thank you. The word has been given to the national deputy of Katusheva. Get Phydenka ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u120	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. Respectable audiences, television and radio. For us Communist factions, it has always been a priority to provide pensions for our citizens. We Communist deputies have repeatedly tried to correct the situation of pensioners by adopting amendments to the Act on Compulsory State Pension Insurance to limit the role of the Government in determining the basic parameters for pension insurance. This is the average wage. One such attempt by my friends, a comrade of the Communist faction, was blocked in February by 243 people's deputies in this room, who once again betrayed the interests of their people. We Communists did not vote in favour of the State Pension Insurance Act, which made the rich even richer and the poor even poorer. We have every right to state the anti-national nature of pension legislation. How much hypocrisy, when it comes from the same rostrum, and today, among others, those who have broken the law are now grasping the head and talking about the anti-constitutional nature of the law. Where did you look, gentlemen of the good, when the Communists urged you not to vote in this way? Why didn't you listen to our common sense, Communists? We have always argued that there is money in the budget for these purposes. Does the government itself constantly claim that the economy is growing? Where, then, are these billions of bracelets of growth? And why are they not being sent to address social problems? We all understand that the people of Ukraine have been encouraged for seven years to carry out pension reform and that no one has questioned its need. But it is regrettable that good intentions and reasonable proposals, and more than 20 of them were only made by the communists, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko and Peter Stepanović Cibenko, have not been supported in this room. They promised the people one thing and, as always, they gave them another. The highest level of emotion and questions with the introduction of this law were adopted by local pension authorities and it was clear that they had a mass of problematic issues. One of them is the outstanding legal issue of the payment of insurance contributions to general government pension insurance by business entities that have chosen a special form of taxation. In accordance with the final provisions of the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance Act, section 15, paragraph 14, all legislation, including those which regulate the simplified tax system, should have been made in accordance with the provisions of the Act, in particular with a view to preventing double taxation in the payment of insurance contributions from the business entities mentioned above, from being exempt from the simplified tax system legislation, a provision relating to the transfer of funds to the Pension Fund of Ukraine: 42 per cent of the amount of the single tax and 10 per cent of the fixed tax from corporate citizens. Since no changes have been made to the legislation, contributions to the Pension Fund continue to be received from business entities that have chosen a special form of taxation. To date, there has been no fixed rate of insurance contributions to the Pension Fund for citizens, entrepreneurs working under a simplified tax system. This category of persons has fallen out of the pension scheme since 1 January 2004. This is such a discriminatory pension system that we have with you that we urgently need to develop. The pension of educational staff, medical personnel, academics, cultural workers, military personnel, peasants - all Ukrainian citizens - cannot be below the standard of living. It is unfortunate that these miserable, shameful pensions cannot be placed on these pensions by those who have established them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u121	Thank you. National MP Phydenko, get ready for Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u122	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Volin. Dear Head, honourable members of the government, honourable fellow MPs and honourable voters. The day’s message is one of the most important and painful questions that are addressed in the walls of the Supreme Council. The highest level of government can be judged by how it treats children and the older generation. The moral face of the government, the President, and the Parliament is fully dependent on this. If you listen to the President and the government, it is highly moral in this regard. And here is the mass of pensioners who meet with deputies who claim to be quite the opposite. I am inclined to believe more in my constituents who believe that the pension reform that has begun to take effect is nothing more than a mockery of their gray heads, an undeserved assessment of their enormous contribution to the protection against Fascism and the rebuilding of our Fatherland. The government, as we can see, prepared in advance for its presentation in the Supreme Council. But I don't think he's very happy to be in Parliament today, because retirement is more a waste than a winning issue. A great deal has been blamed by the government for almost all categories of pensioners. How worth only 70 dollars that the government robbed the pensioner! We've been given all kinds of schemes and diagrams that illustrate the so-called increase in pensions, because our economy is growing. The bouquets are printed on superpaper, in colors. The only problem is that when you read them carefully to the end, it ends up saying, "It's prepared by the U.S. Agency's technical assistance project for the international development of the company."which is also engaged in the implementation of pension reform in Ukraine. This is where they say it all becomes clear. Who, then, is reporting to us today: the government of an independent Ukraine or the company of the United States, which also governs our government in the area of pension reform? It's not weird anymore. All reforms in Ukraine are made, not by our government, but by our foreign authorities. And you, officials of honor, are only in their service. This is the plight and tragedy of the Ukrainian people. It was under the guidance of foreign advisers that the Ukrainian government so far destroyed the Soviet pension system, which may not have been perfect for all one hundred percent, but was desirable for almost every pensioner. Retirement at that time meant a truly deserved rest. Two pensioners in the family supported themselves and two or three other grandchildren. Today, the pensioner becomes either the only sponsor for the entire family or its occupation. In both cases, he will definitely lose. The Soviet pension system had other advantages, and we should also be armed. First of all, she was a pensioner. Today, only pension insurance is available. And if you look at these problems and questions, you'll see a big difference. The Soviet pension system granted the pension 50 percent of the salary, and today it only pays 20-25. Whoever's more agile is going to get 30. The material basis of the pension in Soviet times was part of the net income of society, that is, the state took all the burden on itself, and today only the insurance premiums or your own, the reverends who are going to retire, or every second-third employer who pays the insurance premiums for you. Because all employers in a row don't want to bring in. Thus, the pension work has been translated into the hands of a hired worker. There's no insurance, there's no pension. To make a contribution, you need money, and you don't have it. What about the hundreds of thousands of workers who receive their wages in envelopes or pockets? For them, there are no hospital benefits, no pension benefits. I faced this shameful phenomenon in the markets in Lutsk. The same is true not only in Lutsk. This exists in virtually every city — Kiev and so forth. What are these people going to do that are going to retire in 20, 30, 40 years? No one makes any pension contributions for them. There are many other problems. First of all, the pension system is discriminatory. Why does the average pension of a doctor, an engineer, a teacher in the Luhansk region account for 59 percent of the subsistence minimum and only 46 percent in Volin? It was said that the situation was extremely catastrophic for rural pensioners. For military pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u123	Thank you. Leonid Chernewsky. The faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Orzhachowski. 3: 8:42 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u124	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable radio audiences! Our Ukraine faction, Christian Liberal Party, Darnick electoral district of Kiev. I'm going to start a little bit with another one, because talking about pensioners' problems, even though they should be discussed without solving those problems, of course, will not lead to anything. I mean, they're like that. First, Christ was resurrected. It's very important, we've had a good holiday. And He said: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And I want to say that not all people must love each other at all, but we must learn to love everyone, of course, who wants to talk about pension reform, a specific person. I believe that in Ukraine there has never been such a genocide against pensioners in all the history of our country. We raise questions from hunger to other issues that have nothing to do with this disadvantaged part of the population. I want pensioners to know that the main issues in Parliament can be addressed: budgeting and government monitoring. No matter how many members of the Government speak with sour physionomies that they feel very sorry for the pensioners, or the people's deputies, they will not be able to do anything about it. Today, there are certain things that can be resolved, and our pensioners can get the money that is in the budget. I assure you, distinguished pensioners, that Ukraine is a rich country, and in Ukraine sufficient resources to solve many of your problems. But they're not in the level of suffering that we're periodically demonstrating in public here, they're in the level of budget filling. I put in a bill to eliminate the value added tax. How does a pensioner pay this horrid tax today, which comes after that, he buys drugs in a pharmacy or in beef bread, and all of this goes into the pockets of the oligarchs of the individual who, by stealing the value added tax, take it away. Why not support this bill? I put in a bill to eliminate all the benefits that the Supreme Council has today, the Cabinet of Ministers is tens of billions of dollars, right? And when the minister drives away on a $200,000 Mercedes and suffers here, he says something. [[I'm not talking about specifics. By the way, the president of the Pension Fund is driving a cheap car, and I respect him for that.]] But we've only got Mercedes in the country for so much money that officials, and they're already riding even the chiefs of the Jacks, the hoodlums, which could be any problem, it's very funny, isn't it? You? But what I'm trying to tell you is that some communists ride the '70s, too, right? At the expense of the Statewartswa. Here. And that's the problem. Support the bill, because we're going to release tens of billions of dollars immediately. And another important detail. Without spending control, I'm talking as a capitalist, there's no business that could make a profit in advance unless the capitalist controls the costs. Today we have no control over spending in the country at all. Nobody controls where we spend our money. Some mayors, even the roaches of individual cities, buy airplanes at the expense of pensioners and tell them that travel fees need to be increased. I believe that we must stop all legislation at all, and with the support of both communists and socialists, who naturally have to deal with these problems, I respect these factions. We can only start and end up with one. We have to talk every day about specific pensioners, specific pensions. And until we resolve this issue, there are no laws at all. The government has money, and we can help him. But they can't do anything without our help, they need to be armed with laws and control over spending. That is all we can do in this Parliament. I think we're still as socialist as we were. And nothing has changed in the country. We love people and we don't love them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u125	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Prepare Georgie Kruczkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u126	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Head, colleagues, voters! The Parliament’s consideration of the pension issue on Government Day is the result of the failed pension reform that came into effect this January. The winning and loud words were echoed in connection with the ideal, long-awaited Act "On Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" by the pro-presidential and government factions. There was bitter disappointment for many Ukrainian citizens. After all, only former high - ranking officials and pensioners who had high employment and high wages have seen the light of pensions. What happened in the pension reform did not seem to be the case with urgent presidential decrees, a government decision to raise pensions by 12 percent. What was not to be done immediately because of the adoption of the law? Why did you need intrigue? Why, when the fate of the law was decided, the authors and performers refused to listen to the warnings of the faction of the Company of Ukraine in Parliament but acted on the principle of speeding up. Now that the time has come for everyone to think about the things my party friends have been talking about, I would like, of course, to support those who have thanked for their work, for their systems of work, for the persistence of personnel working in the verticals of power, starting from below and up in these pension organs. The other one. Of course, the goal of finding ways to solve the painful problem of pension insurance attracted everyone. However, through the adoption of the law, there was another way out: prosperity at the expense of the workers themselves. What can millions of citizens who do not have jobs today, land, property, and employment books do? The fate of such people is the lack of employment prospects, guaranteed pension protection. Once, because of scarce reforms, especially in the countryside, the state has destroyed the APC, and it should seek a way out not only in private property but probably in the strengthening of state ownership. It is possible to create new state-owned enterprises that could engage unutilized labour. Consider the decisions of many citizens who have been forced by the helpless state system to work for dishonest entrepreneurs. It has already been mentioned in markets as implementers without proper legal form. This evil is exploited by the state, by society, if we do not want to see a future of people living outside the protection of the State. For days I have been able to communicate with many of these people. They are desperate, desperate, and other pensioners who are critical of all the measures taken by the government and are practically critical of themselves. For good reason, people refer to the good word Soviet authority, the level of social protection of the population at that time. While listening to information from the government's social bloc on pension issues, our government officials have moved away from the people because knowing the realities on the ground would not say that taxes are low on the village pension fund, 250 million dollars, and 9 billion dollars are being paid. Where, then, will the money be taken when the authorities destroyed everything that was alive in agricultural production? I think you should look for the support of those who have made money on imported scrap metal, privatized energy, liqueur-hot income. The time has come for them to share the looted. I think the minister's expression, "In two years, there will be no poverty," is worth remembering, especially in time. For this year's presidential election will pass, and the promised one will be forgotten. I regret when the minister reports that the retirement age did not increase in Ukraine. With this policy of government disrespect for the Rules, you will be able to handle today’s task at the right time, unfortunately. Because wherever you are in the regions, you emphasize that the time has come for changes in the psychology of thinking. By your logic, the salvation of those who drown in the hands of those who drown. Unfortunately, so far there is no answer to the pension problems of officials who retired before the adoption of the Law on State Service and Service in Local Self-Government. They don't have these laws because the law doesn't have reverse force. [[Article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] I agree with those who say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u127	Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov is head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Get ready for Cossack. Alexy Kozachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues! Today, we are discussing one of the most pressing problems of our difficult existence. Sadly, the person she cares about can be seen by who is represented here. I wanted to express a few thoughts. First, you, Sir Michael Mikolaiovich, with the metal in your voice, have completed your report by expressing dissatisfaction with someone who wants to break the pension reform, leading back to comparison. Mikhail Miklaiovich, there are no more fools like that. There's something Two problems. First, let's be honest with people, let's say that this reform works for the part of the population that works, and it has to be fair. I don't care, do I? More concerned about how to fill private funds with these pension funds. When I hear every morning at five o'clock a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. Why don't we remind you what MMM is, what is trust? Why don't we take care of the guarantees, the costs? And the second part is pensioners who won't work anymore. How Can I Deal With It? Are we going to continue to do what the government did -- give 3-5 of a bracelet a supplement, and then, on the day of being bullied, sunk on these pensioners? That's what I'm concerned about. I think we need to take down the problem of increasing retirement for many years at all. What kind of promotion can it be when people do not live to this retirement age? Let's be honest, honest and decent at least in this case. And the second. I can't help but say about this violent imbalance and inequity in the pension insurance of military, law enforcement officials who have been born at various times of retirement. I wanted to translate this problem into a plane of treatment in our country. Because Ukraine today is perhaps the only SND nation that has not fulfilled its promises to remove this problem. Our government ignored the Supreme Council's rulings, which were adopted on the basis of parliamentary hearings in 1999, which were adopted last year, according to the Government's Military Reform Day. How can we understand that? It's just, well, you're surprised by that attitude. As chairman of the committee, I have repeatedly addressed the highest officials in the state. To address the President, the answer from the first deputy head of administration is, "For two years, this problem will be solved." This was in the past year or even in the past year. This year I'm again addressing the President -- the second first deputy says that the Cabinet of Ministers is in charge and is now being prepared, but he doesn't write how and when this problem will be solved. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. I get the answer from the Deputy Minister of Finance that "we increased by 272 million in 2003 pension insurance." That's not true: they only increased by 143 million. At that time, nothing was set aside to cover this injustice. For the first time in this year’s budget, some 219 million have been allocated. Again, it is not said how, how, when, and what order this problem will be solved. How can we view it this way?Oh, my God! We understand how difficult this is. Because it's a billion 280 million to remove that difference. But we need to look for her. And I'd like to finish my speech by suggesting that we put it there so that it doesn't go through anyone, but that we put out a question: define order and string -- no more than two years of eliminating this imbalance, call it what it's going to be like, and inform the public about it widely. Let's not play with fire, mind you, the situation is explosive in a veteran environment. And the government needs to know and respond accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u129	Alexi Kozachenko has a word for his speech. There's Alexy Kozachenko. Gavrish will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the government! As with all pension reforms, both favorable and negative reactions can be heard about Ukrainian. In my view, it is important to take into account the fact that the pension reform in Ukraine has only just begun and in time will require new, more decisive action. The measures already taken by the Government and the Supreme Council are sufficient only for the start of the reform process. Now, practice shows the need for dynamics in this process. The pension system is one of the most serious factors of social tension. The main contradictions between the legislative and executive powers in the social sphere are concentrated here. She is dissatisfied with pensioners, workers, and employers. It is only worth considering the Ukrainian attitude toward pension reform. A large part of the population is particularly lacking in clarity, often misinterpreted by deep processes, the objective factors in the financial inability of today’s pension system. It is quite common to think that in order to improve the situation, it is sufficient to review the allocation of public financial resources in the direction of increasing budget estimates for higher pensions. The essence of pension reform is that many citizens would like to see pensions automatically up to the level they say will enable the pensioner to live in dignity. That's an understandable formula. The pessimistic attitude of citizens toward pension reform is widespread. 52 percent believe that reform starts for the sake of visibility, and only 20 percent expect it to improve the macroeconomic situation. That's different. A fairly positive general approach to pension reform is positive for the introduction of a non-state pension scheme. In addition, the proportion of those who appreciate this step remains unchanged for 2 years. This suggests that the implementation is likely to take place. State pension insurance is in line with the interests and expectations of the population. What major problems would you like to identify? The employer’s pension fund is extremely large. We don't have enough to pay their pensions, the limits on the pension fund. Employers today consider the deductions to the Pension Fund to be too high, justly claiming that this is the main obstacle to raising wages and getting the economy out of the shadows. Compared to the Pension Fund in other states, we will see that they are much smaller than in Ukraine. For example: 16 percent in Poland, 19.5 percent in the Czech Republic, 8.7 percent in Croatia. The pensioners are also not happy about the situation they are in. In recent years, the proportion of pensions in their total income has been reduced to 54 percent and in rural areas to 38 percent. Thus, even in families that are only older, the pension has ceased to be a major source of income. The problem is that there is a problem of increasing the physical weight of pensioners along with low birth rates. Although the retirement age in Ukraine is much lower than in most countries, not only with a developed but also with a transitional economy, current legislation provides for the right to an early retirement for individual categories of workers. And the number of such representatives is increasing year after year. An important problem with non-state pension is the problem of keeping pension money in non-state pension funds. I don't think that's going to start a non-state pension. World practice proves that non-state pension funds largely store funds at the expense of investing in the real estate market, in the market for liquid securities. However, these markets in Ukraine do not exist, or they are underdeveloped. In view of this, there is a serious risk of loss of funds. The human resources problem is also a key issue in the non-state pension system. In general, we need to conclude. It's important. The increase in income from the Pension Fund by improving the management of its finances, introducing social payments such as a tax on acquisitions of luxury items, exchange transactions and other similar things that were at the source of the Pension Fund in their own time, and which you and I, from filing the government, in my view, have been very unwisely canceled and made them sources of budget coming. On this issue, I think we need to go back and consider the Supreme Council. The proportion of contributions to the Employee’s Pension Fund and the employer should also be reviewed. The world’s experience needs to be studied and the question answered, Who should pay the fees at what rates? Why should payment be distributed between employers and employees? Society needs a pension reform and, as a result, the authorities must exercise political will to carry out this reform. I hope that the joint work of the government and the Supreme Council on pension reform will be accelerated and will bring positive results to our citizens' expectations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u131	Please, Artemenko. The next one will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u132	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Members of the government. You know, if I sum up some of the summation of pension reform, I'd say there are two steps for me. The first step was when the Yushchenka government actually paid off their pension debts and stopped the shameful practice of delaying their payments. It was really the first step in meeting our pensioners. The second step was to carry out a pension reform. Since 1998, work on the concept has been under way. The legislators were faced with a difficult task, so the new pension law was handled by dozens of professionals from the national deputies of Ukraine, the pensioners, the government, scientists, every letter of the law, and the complex question was how, when there was no money, to implement a law that could possibly restore justice in relation to pensioners, a law that would actually determine the dependency of the employment pension on the length of the job and the size of the salary. Many compromises resulted in a partial solution. The formula laid down in the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act gave people a real opportunity to increase employment pensions. And the pensioners were waiting for the law to come into force, and they could get a few more tens of bracelets. Yet, the government has trampled on the expectations of pensioners when it adopted a sad decree of 1783 with a cynical title for measures to improve the pension system of citizens. Unfortunately, there is some lack of information in this decision that the government has improved pension insurance to the citizens, because the vast majority of pensioners have lost an average of 30 to 50 dollars in pensions as a result of its adoption. Any systemic reform, reform at all, should be successful only when there is a broad, informational work on clarification and substance alongside technical aspects. And this work was done, people were telling people what they were getting, they were gradually preparing for systemic changes in the pension system, and all of our voters were waiting for a truly just reform. But the government, once again, with one stroke of the pen, when it adopted that decision, crossed the work of dozens of specialists and actually destroyed the ideology of pension reform, destroyed the last hope of people finding justice in that state. I find it very sad to look at my colleagues who on the spot say they're retired, not here in the hall, voting for this decision. You know, our committee came out when we saw such a committee on freedom of speech and information, we came up with a proposal to print the names of those deputies who voted in favour of that decree. I can tell you that in places where newspapers print the names of MPs. Those who voted in favour of the decree were very many, and it was very embarrassing for those deputies. The authority of the Supreme Council is being destroyed because of pension reform, or almost every pensioner, and as a result, the people received 3-5 of the pension allowance. And people are accusing this of a law passed by us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, even though these pensions, I emphasize again, were actually stolen by the government. I would like to remind you, at last, just one of the letters that come to you, and which have been reproduced, and distributed to the National Deputies at the signature of the committee head of Cibenko. Here is a letter from the city of the White Church. You are our children and grandchildren, whom we have saved, who have been able to gain free education, who have treated our profession so cruelly, with their parents, grandparents. Surrender until it is too late, do not bury us alive, do not make people angry, for the patient will enter, so foolishly rule the state, and Ukraine has become a stepmother for us. The Solidarity MP, the "Our Ukraine" faction requires the government to immediately cancel the 1783 decree and to make a fair recalculation of pensions for Ukrainian citizens, to pay them back the money that they've earned in hard work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u133	Sokirko, the faction of our Ukraine and Shevchenka to prepare. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u134	Mikola Sokirko, "Our Ukraine" faction, Solidarity Group. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The question that is being considered today is the focus of millions of our citizens. Mayors know that the pension issue is one of those that is most often raised by voters. For the vast majority of our pensioners, pensions remain the only source of existence. However, many retirees now have such a pension that it allows them to buy only a limited amount of essential food, and to pay for residential services, for medicines that are urgently needed by older people, is no longer enough money. So it turned out that the pension system in Ukraine was balanced and socially unfair. Nor should it be said that such a situation arose in Ukraine’s years of independence, for in the Soviet Union the pension system was not as just. Just remember what a peasant's pension was like. That is why Ukraine urgently needed pension reform. And last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the law that started this reform. Of course, it is not that pensions will rise to the European level. Because we all know very well that the financial resources of the Pension Fund are limited. However, the fact that a pension was to be recalculated according to the law, with the pension of each pensioner rising by at least a few tens of dollars, is a fact. And that's why it didn't happen, and that's why we need to ask the Cabinet of Ministers, which has passed a sad decree of November 20, 2003, on measures to improve the pension security of citizens. The government’s adoption of this decree resulted in a substantial reduction in pensions under the new pension law. In addition, the government has destroyed the concept of pension reform and the expectations of pensioners for a real increase in pensions. After all, a six - year increase in pensions offered by the government is simply an abuse of people in the light of the increase in food and medicine. And another question I'd like to draw your attention to. In Ukraine the demographic situation and the high proportion of pensioners are very complex. After 10-20 years, obviously, the number of pensioners will increase. And even today, we need to work on how to pay their pensions. solving this problem is only possible if the economy is growing, the level of wage increases and the corresponding increase in income from the Pension Fund. Yet, this is where a serious problem, though beyond pension insurance, has a direct impact on the pension system. It's a social insurance issue at all. Today, there are three other social insurance funds in Ukraine other than the Pension Fund. And each fund is a thousand officials and a substantial cost of maintaining them. The total number of deductions from the employer is almost 30 percent, of the employee employed three percent. As you can see, most employers today are not prepared to pay this amount of insurance, so the payout in envelopes is booming. And let's be honest: workers themselves don't mind this kind of practice, because in most cases they don't see the benefits of social funds for themselves. It is therefore imperative to reform social insurance in general. Without lowering the social security bill, we will not get a substantial increase in wages and corresponding deductions to the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u135	Yes, Shevchenko. Dear colleagues, let's consult. We're running out of time, and there's still a lot to go on. Well, maybe a minute from then? No, there's a lot. We have to finish in 14 hours. We still have 13 national deputies. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u136	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dnipropetrovština, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, respected members of the government! Noting that the change in labour market trends has increased the annual increase of 20-25 per cent of wages and deductions to the general government social security funds, the joint implementation and joint work of the executive, legislative and substantive authorities to reform the Ukrainian population pension system have played an important role. The introduction of additional congregations for pension insurance allowed last year to increase the average pension rate by 11 percent, to increase pensions for miners, military officials, and their families. Of course, I didn’t want to, but the money did go up. But when you look at the question from the point of view of pensioners and other types of population, in the past, the painting is not that happy. Of course, today’s living conditions dictate a new approach to the formation of pension legislation. A new step in reforming the pension system is the direct participation of the insured person. But in places and at the level of the government, the question is, which one? published programmes at the legislative level. It is therefore necessary to address a number of problems related to the current state of pension and the introduction of pension insurance, namely: the question of payers working on a simplified system of taxation, the only fixed agricultural tax through the adoption of bills: the establishment of single tax rates and the order of redistribution of single and fixed taxes, and the establishment of a fixed distribution of insurance premiums for compulsory government pension insurance for individual categories of payers. [[No. 5158]] [[No. 4502]] The way in which the relevant changes and additions to the legislative acts are made is to resolve, at the legislative level, the questions of how to calculate the life expectancy of persons who work in the watch method, to do seasonal work in the rural area according to Ukrainian legislation, to work in enterprises where the summation of working hours is introduced and where employees are paid for the actual working time during the accounting period, to receive assistance in pregnancy and childbirth, to take care of the child after reaching the age of six and during that period do not stop the employment relationship with the employer, as well as to entrepreneurs who are disabled by the Great Criminal War, to persons who are entitled to the age of the father or are related to them, and to be exempt from payment of insurance benefits. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine is asking us to take into account the data of the proposals to improve the people's pensions, because if we want to build a legal, democratic state, we can't forget the truth that a country that doesn't care about children and the elderly is deprived of the future. I wanted to ask you a question during the discussion. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity. That's why I'm addressing or answering the question to some extent myself, both to the minister and to the head of the Pension Fund, which is an additional source of coming to the Pension Fund. This is primarily an opportunity to raise wages for people who work in the agricultural sector of the state economy. And then we're not going to talk about the fact that only through redistribution can farmers pay their pension. And let's not say that in 1995 the pension was 37 bucks, and now it's 135. I would like to point out that if you and I were to adopt appropriate laws and apply these laws to the government. So for example, there's now a system of action in relation to the purchasing trade, and that's going to be a grain market regulator. I think if the state buys 2-3 million tons of grain from our producers, it will help raise the wages of those people who work directly on the ground. I'd also like to name laws that, by their distinction, can also give 2-3 billion bracelets to the execution of a manufacturer directly. It's a violation of the Law on Extra Customs to Export Every Ton of Sunflower. A number of MPs have prepared a new bill that will be seasonal in this customs additional coating of each ton. And I would like not only the government, but also the MPs to support us, so that the peasants don't declare themselves, but actually increase their own well-being. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we have five minutes to work. We still have 12 deputies. Well, at least half of them are in the hall. I don't think there's much of a chance to speak. We have to finish at 14 o’clock, because the broadcast stops at 14 o’clock. I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs who signed up for the speech and couldn't make it, to join. We're going to add our materials, we're going to add them to the transcript, and now let's do it this way. Here I have a request for 1 minute to reply, and then I'll ask the Deputy Prime Minister to make a closing statement and head of the committee, and we'll summarize and conclude our meeting. [[Mentioned Personalities and Factions]] Please, Vladimir Hare microphone. Ah, Shurma. I'm sorry. Wrote the Hare. It's just me. Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u138	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear radio listeners and those who are watching us, I have taken the floor in connection with the fact that, in my speech, the representative of the block of "Our Ukraine" Peter Poroshenko mentioned both the party and me personally. Well, I'd like to remind Peter Prashenko that today we're discussing a problem for which he and his 97 members voted in favour of Victor Yushchenk. And what is happening today in Ukraine should be taken by voting and being held accountable. As for the evaluation of the government, I said take it to heart, and I'm talking about it. And you, if you don't want to know, Peter Alexiovich, don't take it. I'm surprised by the way one of the oligarchs of the block of "Our Ukraine" shows intolerance to another perspective and has. cannot overcome this desire to express a dissatisfaction with the government’s work. That's his problem. But I would like to remind you that in 2000 the government had a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u139	Yes, thank you. Please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, government officials, radio audiences, TV sets! Indeed, the faction "Our Ukraine" voted in favour of pension reform. And we put that sense in this vote to really eliminate the equation, to even those who retired by the year 92 and now. Unfortunately, however, none of the goals set by this government, for which the parliamentary majority is responsible, has been achieved. If in their speech, indeed, the representatives of a party say so. That the only thing that is impeding the implementation of pension reform, I quote, is the "imperfect mentality of the Ukrainian people," and that's what's preventing us from solving the problems of our pensioners, so let's count. If we are to live a fine life, we are confused by the people, perhaps looking for another country, where another nation is. We, the Party of Our Ukraine, clearly guarantee that the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u141	Thank you. Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u142	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! An active policy has been initiated by the government regarding the formation of a social insurance system and its most important component of pension insurance. I'm convinced that any long-term process, pension reform is only at the very beginning of its implementation, so it needs more concerted action by the very active and the Supreme Council, and implementation of new decisions, legislative acts by the executive branch and the Cabinet of Ministers. These decisions require testing and further improvement and resolution of problems that have proved to be in practice unsolvable. To say that there are absolutely no achievements in pension legislation, in pension insurance, I don't think that's justified. In the last two years alone, the average pension in Ukraine increased from 120 to 185. And if two years ago the Pension Fund paid over a month and a half billion dollars, today the Pension Fund pays about 2.5 billion dollars. This is a major achievement, including the contribution of the government and the Pension Fund, thanks to a new law adopted by the Supreme Council to the childization of wages. I'd like to ask you one more question, what the size of pensions was, is and will be in Ukraine, and in the world is always derived from contributions paid to the Pension Fund, not from statistics, because statistical data is always abstraction, and the contributions made are reality. And there's nowhere else to go. I would like to say that, in my opinion, it will be very important to help with pension insurance, reform if three cost-based positions are taken into account by joint efforts in the State Budget Act -- compensation for agricultural enterprises, which are fixed agricultural tax payers, expenses incurred by them on the general basis of insurance contributions to the general government pension policy. This is a compensation to the Pension Fund for the amounts that should eliminate the dissimilarity in the payment of pensions to members of the military, which is also what many speakers said had acquired pension rights by 1992. And I would like to say, honourable national deputies, that I agree with the need to review all retirement benefits or at least not to increase the new categories of pensioners who have benefits for this. I think it would help to resolve the pension system and also to return to the problems that have been solved by the Supreme Council, but it did not agree with the pension fund’s proposal. That is to return to the Pension Fund the funds that can be recovered from foreign exchange transactions and from tobacco. I think it's very important. But in general, I would like to thank all those who participated in the discussion, which I think was very business-friendly, and thank all those who care about the social protection and social development of the state. I assure you that the government is still set up for constructive cooperation with Parliament. As a result of this government day, we're going to make changes and the next steps of pension legislation in the near future we're going to work on those positions that I've been talking about, and the budget compensation is foreseen, and the elimination of the imbalance of military personnel, and we're going to come back, and we're going to ask you, for those extra taxes, for things that are expensive or for objects that are as harmful as tobacco products to make them as they have been in the last few years. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u143	Peter Stepanovich, please. Microphone. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich is head of the committee. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u144	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Well, first of all, I would like to thank the government today, the representatives of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for helping prepare and conduct today's Government Day. Indeed, there has been an extraordinary principle today, an interested conversation with the most acute problem in our society. And yet, Dmitry Volodymyrovich, I think that you and I have given up in vain, at the last moment, from participating in today's Government of Chief Executives of the Pension Fund and, Chiefs of Labour and Social Policy in the areas of Ukraine, who could, let's say, take part in the discussion of the problems that exist today. I think it's government day only!!!! from having these people present. I would like to thank all the deputies who have taken part in the discussion and to promise that, on behalf of the committee, that we will necessarily take into account all the suggestions made today and that those interested in your participation will complete that draft decision that has been made today. And another thing that worries me very much, I think, is everyone here today, and here's one information that I've literally received from the Internet today. Listen to it carefully, it has a bearing on today’s problem. "In the city of Hartziske, a 58-year-old retired woman hid the body of a dead husband so as not to spend her funerals. A 62-year-old man's body was discovered at the end of March accidentally passing under a dog last year." - writes the Harris newspaper Rodin. "The wife of the deceased man died on 21 December 2003. However, without the means of burial, the wife decided simply to hide the body. For more than three months, she told the acquaintances that her husband had left and had twice received a pension for him." Someone will see some mental problems in this. And he'll probably be right. But I see another problem is the problem of the extreme poverty of our population. So I would like everyone present today on this government day, and the members of the government, and the national MPs, and all those who have something to do with this problem, to do everything possible and even impossible for this extremely acute, painful problem of pension security to move away, let's say, from a freezing point of view. Because people, I would like to emphasize again today, this golden generation that brought war on its shoulders, post-war reconstruction, and much more, they deserve a much better fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-13-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of the matter. I think there's been a conversation today. And most of all, everyone was right. And those who talked about the positive shifts that we have today in the implementation of pension reform and those who said that this level of pension insurance doesn't meet the minimum needs. And they were also right, because we have an average pension size of only 51 percent of the living minimum that is set for people who have lost their jobs. And as you know, that's 268 dollars. Obviously, we have to compare what we've done with the minimum needs to provide more or less decent, not life, or even the existence of people who have given everything to the country and to the state, and today, it's said, are on deserved rest. It seems to me that we need to talk together today about how to build a system that doesn't insult people or demean their dignity or turn them into beggars. We obviously need to make clear what we need to do at the level of the Supreme Council, what we need to do at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, and what we need to do together. And we need to do a lot of things together. We need to make these decisions, we need to ensure that the executive branch works to allow 10 percent of the gross domestic product to grow, then we're going to reach the level that experts calculated in 1990 in 2010. Think about these numbers! And obviously, we need to approach a variety of benefits more in principle, and above all, we need to come out of the need to fill out the Budget. I'm going to give myself a figure like this: the total amount of tax benefits in 2003 amounted to 71.3 billion. A bracelet that is composed of 95 percent of the income of the Ukrainian budget. Today we would have, honourable colleagues, to take a decision on the outcome of the Government Day, but given that we have several decisions: there is a decision that the committee has made on the preparation of this issue, and there is an alternative draft decision, so obviously we need to agree with the government on a draft decision that would facilitate the mobilization of our joint action, I mean both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers to further improve the situation on this queen, while fundamentally improving the situation. So if there's no objection, let's put a dot on this, let's end Government Day. Thank you for your work. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next plenary meeting will take place next Tuesday.
