ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:49]] A total of 248 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian National Deputies Valery Pilipovich, who was 55 years old, Vernigori Leonid Mihajlovich, who was 65 years old, and Kručkov's Georgia Korniyovich, who was 75 years old. Let's welcome our jewelers and wish for all kinds of good things. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? In connection with our agreement, I will always inform you of the results of the previous plenary day. This is very important, I want to emphasize, in the background of loud statements, information, messages that are massaging from the screen that Parliament is not working, paralyzed. So please consider 15 issues of the order of the day. As a result of their consideration, three laws have been passed in general, including the Act on the Approval of the Housing Minimum for 2005. A very important bill. One bill was adopted in the first reading. Two bills are aimed at further development, including the draft Law on Ukraine's 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme. In doing so, I would like to say, my fellow Members, this is an illustrative fact: yesterday a national MP was complaining that the Supreme Council was unable to approve the program, the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine, and at the time, the program was not available in the session room. The three bills were rejected. Three decrees have been adopted, including the decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian people in connection with the election of the President of Ukraine. Three draft rulings were rejected. One draft decision has been withdrawn. Information has been heard about the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Paris session. Dear National Deputies! In line with the Rules on Wednesday, we have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'd like to ask the factions and groups to submit their statements, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Yes, there were requests from Ukrainian national deputies: Mr. Oleg TJAGNIBOK to the President of Ukraine regarding the verification of information concerning the illegal acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by a citizen of the Russian Federation, a member of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, Cobzon. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:31]] For-152. Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Dear colleagues, don't raise your hand. There is no motive for any of the requests made. Please study the Rules. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:00]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the President of Ukraine on the responsibility of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for raising prices for individual goods. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Dear colleagues, this is a request that was made earlier. [[10:07:28]] Z-62 Request not supported. Sergia TEROJOCHINA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for refusing to register the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On preventing the use of eggs in the pre-election company from being assigned”. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the provision of false information by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the distribution and use of subsidies in 2004. Gregory BONDARENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the threat of financial bankruptcy of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. MICHELLE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a subsidy to eliminate the effects of natural disasters in the region of Johno-Frankow. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the improper implementation of legislation on the provision of disabled persons by means of manual means of transport. Alexander MOROZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the car to the disabled of the Great Homeland War and the group. Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the complex reconstruction and well-being of the village of Envy of Terebovljan district of Ternopil. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Vassila Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the systematic inactivity of the Head of the Middle Eastern Regional Administration of the Kharkiv Region of Mikli Žernokliev. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Act on the Government Budget for Ukraine 2004. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Central Electoral Commission of Ukraine on violations of human rights and freedoms by law enforcement authorities and local authorities. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funds for the continuation of the construction of the historical museum in the city of Prejeslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. Vladimir BONDAR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on investment programmes in the automotive sector of Ukraine. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the return of the funds that were on the account of the shares commercial agro-industry bank “Ukraine” to the community of the Sveti-Uspenian Orthodox Church of the region of Zacarpathia and the formal attitude towards the implementation of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine”. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of a Chernobyl building in Fastov. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment of debts on salary to employees of the Saki State Chemical Plant. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the roads of municipal property in the Luhansk region. Victor YUSCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Burden Corruption in the Investigation of the Criminal Case of Rape of Minors on 27 May 2004 in the Bykovnjan Forest. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Order on the Order of Land Disruption. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the liquidation of the consequences caused by Kitzmanski, Viznicki, Putilski region of the Chernivecki region during July and August 2004. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the preservation of architecture monuments in Ukraine. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of grouping military forces and technology in Kiev, Mr. Yávorijsk, under the authority of the 28 October military parade in the capital and the possible impact of these actions on the election of the President of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for repairs to the Luhansk State Medical University. [[PHOTOGRAPH, PHOTOGRAPHY, PHOTOGRAPHY, PHOTOGRAPHY]] Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the district cultural building in Terebovla Ternopil district. Vassila KALINCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to resolve the issue of the return of farmers to the funds allocated to them in 2003 to deal with the consequences of the natural disaster. Valentina Seminyuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-use of security measures for the non-proliferation of tuberculosis in the Kiev family. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the Russian side's actions to build a dam near Tuzla through the provisions of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. [[MONITORING, CHUBAROV, JAVOYSKI, BLACKWILL]] VALLERY OF THE LEBEDIUM AND ALEXANDRA CERNOVOLENKA TO THE prime minister of Ukraine for non-implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the recalculation of previously appointed pensions in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the liquidation of Como’s debt to milk suppliers. Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the pressure of law enforcement authorities by corrupt groups of citizens and officials, as well as the abuse of the official position of some officials of the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine for the threat of national security of Ukraine as a result of systematic corruption, abuse of office and purposeless use by officials of the Luhansk District Public Administration of budgetary resources, the failure of the programme to create new jobs for workers who are exempt from coal-processing, coal-processing and peat-producing enterprises. Hennady RUDENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the under-receiving of enterprises and organizations in the region of the Mirgorod region of the Poltavian State Budget Subvention for the granting of benefits, subsidies and compensation under the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 21 January 2004. Mr Michael DOBKIN to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury of Ukraine on the implementation of the Government's Regulations on Grants to Local Budgets. SLABENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for compensation for the payment of benefits for the provision of separate categories of citizens in the Volin region. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, regarding the conservation of the natural reserve of the “Pacific” of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. JOSEPH WINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of existing legislation by the former head of the Zaporozhye State Administration, Kucherenkom. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay and improper investigation by law enforcement officials in the Volin area of the kidnapping of a citizen's car, Dumič. [[TURCHIN, ONOPENKO, KYRILCHUK]] BICHKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of the law in the privatization and exploitation of non-residential housing in Dnipropetrovsk. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal actions by the municipal council of Lucca Grobot. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inaction during the pretrial investigation and the unwarranted decision to refuse a criminal offence. Mr Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the agreement of the Open Shareholders Association of the City of Czernigova and its limited liability “Sphere”. Mr. Mikhaila POLANČIČIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of individuals in the procurator’s office of the Proletar district of Donetsk. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the burning of the printery of the Cerkas District Committee of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the violation by the employees of the Office to Combat Organized Crime in the Dnipropetrovsk Region and the Public Prosecutor's Office of Human Rights and Freedoms and Citizens. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the long-standing burden of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on compensation payments for goods and food rations fired from the work of police officers in the Volinsk region. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the course of criminal investigation No. 49-551, violated by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Igor KALICKEN to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the indignant burning of buildings on the Oldwater Street in Kiev. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination of the unlawful actions of the officials of the Procurator's Office of the Kyrovograd Region and the shareholder post-retirement bank “Aval”, which violated the constitutional rights of the Korobejk brothers. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the violation of the legislation by tax authorities, representatives of other State institutions during the audit of the financial and economic activities of the Open Association “The Naftoprocessing Complex – Galicina” and the blocking of its work. [[FIGHT, BOYS, YOURSELF, AND OTHERS. Total 20 deputies]] Andrija SKILJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” regarding the guarantee of the secret of telephone conversations. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights to housing of residents of hostels, which are on the balance sheet of the bankrupt open stock company “Mirgorodski Konopleszavod”. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal involvement of the law enforcement authorities of Odessa in the electoral process with the aim of obstructing agitation as President of Ukraine, Peter Simonenko. Mr. Vladimir BONDAR to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a double standard on investment programs for Ukrainian automotive companies. John STATION to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the execution of his duties as Assistant Counsellor of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Alevtina Malička. Mr Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the deliberate obstruction of the legitimate professional activities of journalists of the filming group “The News Television Agency”, which took place in Kharkiv on 12 October 2004. Mr. Paul MUTCHANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Religious Affairs, Head of the Odessa District Public Administration on the illegal occupation by a group of persons representing the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Korczynski, the temple of the Holy Grand Instructor George the Conqueror of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate in the city of Odessa. Sergey SLABENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the course of the investigation of a criminal case violated by the fact of the fraudulent activities of a society with limited responsibility for the “Agency” concerning the inhabitants of Vladimir Volin district of Volin. Boris BESPALED to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation at the U.S. horse factory. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of information on the use of the Black Lotus organization and militia personnel in unlawful acts aimed at provocations during the election of the President of Ukraine. Sergey TEROJOCHINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the issue of protest in the order of prosecutorial supervision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the illegal establishment of a private pension fund at the expense of the State budget, as well as on the involvement of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in criminal liability for the signs of a crime provided for in article 364 of the Criminal Code. Mr. Vladimir BONDARENKA and Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine on the illegal use of budgetary resources to finance the election campaign of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General regarding the examination of a complaint concerning an illegal criminal offence against the Russian family. [[JANNOV, SUNCHENKO, PRUBOK, NOSENKO]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal interference in the electoral process and the gross violation of constitutional rights and civil liberties by the Deputy Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Plains region. [[RED, ALEXIUM, WIDE]] Mr. Andria POLIETA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Ministry of Interior employees in relation to the Ukrainian Comsomol group. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General, Head of the Security Service, Head of the State Tax Administration, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the verification of tax evasion, collection of other compulsory payments, smuggling, legalization of funds and other property acquired criminally in the production of pre-election posters, newspapers and ballot papers by individual candidates for the office of the President of Ukraine, which resulted in gross violations of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, called for actions that threaten public order and criminal responsibility. [[CARMAZIN, PINZENIK, SEBREWS Total 11 deputies]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the use of response measures to end the violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine for freedom of expression and the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine on the procedure for collecting signatures to support a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, preventing the exercise of electoral law, forcing voting for a candidate for power, numerous threats of dismissal in the city of Krivi Rig. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVES FOR THE DETERMINATION OF THE transfer of limited liability to the Society in the Odessa Region for parking and storage of special equipment and non-residential buildings. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Minister of Health, Minister of Environmental Protection of the Environment, on the provision of information on the status of land resources and on the use of conservation measures in the Yaltin Forest Reserve and on the implementation of the relevant mandate of the President of Ukraine. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, President of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat, to repay the debt owed to the Open Shareholders Association of the Hmělna Region of the AES for the construction of buildings of the power supply complex No. 2 at the Hmělnice AES. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the grounds and motives for assigning the prime minister of Ukraine the rank of Major of the Armed Forces. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the request of a citizen of Zosulaca to assist in teaching his son at the Donetsk Legal Institute of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. VICTOR OF THE DESCRIPTION TO THE U.S. HEALTH MINISTER FOR THE 2004 U.S. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failure to execute a court decision to collect debts on salary from the Open Shareholders Association of the City of Žaskov. Vladimir NOVAKA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the insufficient financing of the Hmelnicka District after the implementation of the State’s “School Bus” programme. Anatolia KLIMINA to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the maintenance of the Military Training Department at the National Mining University. Mr. Tomenka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the reasons for the failure to perform the general military duty, Viktor Janukovič. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the further involvement of Ambassador Victor Chernomirdin of the Russian Federation in Ukraine's internal affairs. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the application of measures to stop the persecution for the public activity of the head of the Government of the Vinicko District Public Association “Landlord of Delilah”, member of the Human Rights Committee Protzevich. Groups of people’s deputies to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the change in the time frame for boarding and the creation of the right conditions for the training of highly qualified medical professionals. [[KOSTINJUK, KURT, KORTINJUK]] Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the non-abuse of official powers by officials of the Department of State Automobile Inspection of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Ivano-Frankov region. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine regarding the illegal use of 15 trains by Ukróznice for the delivery and residence of observers in the western areas of Ukraine. [[RED, ALEXIUM, WIDE]] Váchaslav KYRILENKA to the Head of State Department oversees the enforcement of legislation on the non-execution of the court decision and the inaction of the State Executive Service in the payment of the paid salary to employees of the company “Hersonribgosp” – residents of the village of Stara Zburiyevka of the Haerson district. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture on the Legality of Housing and Building Cooperatives on the Sale of Unbuilt Buildings or the involvement of investors for the continuation of construction. Michael DOBKIN to the Head of the High Council of Justice, deputy head of the High Council of Justice for the execution of the decision of the High Council of Justice. Vladimir NOVAK to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the violation of the law in force by the judge of the Hmelnick district court in the case of an appeal to a limited-liability company. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Head of the Hersson District Intervention Administration for the illegal removal of land -based rights of individual residents of the village of the type New Mayačka Tsurupin district of the Hersonian region. Mr. Mikhail Kosiv and Mr. Vladimir JAVORIVE to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Legal Policy, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement in connection with the administrative pressure against the Kyiv Court of Appeal concerning the National Association of Ukrainian Writers, which does not deal with the matter in substance and under pressure of the authorities, is quick to make a non-legal decision before the end of the presidential campaign. Vladimir YAVORlSKI to the Head of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the monitoring of the implementation of electoral legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine on the violation of electoral legislation by the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration, which, at the State's expense of 24 October this year, organizes the arrival in the capital of some 4,000 elected representatives of national minorities, who, judging by everything, are meeting only to support Viktor Yanukovich's candidacy in the election of the President of Ukraine. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the conduct of the pension recalculation. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Luhansk District State Administration for the purpose of addressing the inhabitants of the city of Sevierodontska Lugansk region for the absence of a broadcast of “5 channel” television. [[Blackwolf, Lebedivsky, Sleepless]] Groups of National Deputies to Kharkiv City Head for addressing the people of Kharkiv for the unsatisfying preparations for the heating season of Rhevomovska Street. [[JESUS, KATERINCHUK, JOB]] valentine SAVIC to First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine Yuri Boyk for accelerating the allocation of funds in 2004 for the gasification of the Baranów, Yemeni, Novograd-Wallin region of the Žitomir region, envisioned by the National Shareholder Naftogaz of Ukraine. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the National Service of Ukraine for the violation of language legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine by the authorities and employees of the State Saving Bank in Kiev. MICHELLA POLAND’S prime minister for the Ukrainian Prime Minister’s special composition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who accepted and took part in peacekeeping missions. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Head of the Herson District Administration for the financing and preservation of individual property belonging to the local communities of the Herson region. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to Prime Minister of Ukraine on financial support for the completion of the gas pipeline to the village of Gorno Rogachi in the Hersson region. Thus, the honourable colleagues, all the parliamentary inquiries that have come in due order, have been made. If you look at the factions, the picture looks like this: the faction of our Ukraine -- 40 requests, the faction of communists -- 18, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" -- 7, the "Democratic Social Party of Ukraine" -- 3, "The One Ukraine" -- 1, "The Hard Ukraine" -- 2, the People's Agrarian Party -- 3, the Socialist Party -- 8, the Timoshenko Block 8, the Alliance Group -- 1, "Centre" -- 5, the Postfaction Party -- 2. [[united]] A total of 48 parliamentary inquiries. Judging from the geography of the MP's inquiries, I mean the distribution of them between the MPs and the faction, we see that all the factions and groups are participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From what? We're about to move on. Before we consider the matter, we'll speak with the procedure, your honors! We are now moving on to the speeches of the MPs and the factions authorized to do so by the national MPs. From "Our Ukraine" Victor Pinzenik has a word for it. Prepare Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies, Victor Yushchenka's Block has already called your attention to the antisocial orientation of the 2005 budget. According to the government project, the following year the real wages of budget officials are declining. It does not provide for payments to retirees to the minimum of living. We cannot allow the 2005 budget to be another example of political fraud, to be accepted as the 2004 budget, when no number of government figures were calculated or explained when understated figures were stated when the budget was adopted, and in fact tens of billions more. There has been an unprecedented economic growth that has in no way affected the social protection of the common people. Today, it is clear to all that an active government has hidden enormous funds from the Ukrainian people for the presidential election. By declaring the unheard of growth of the economy, not only has the government not only managed to find funds to meet the minimum social needs of people in inflationary processes, but it has also done a proven way of concealing its own unprofessionalness: after the election, albeit a flood. We call on our colleagues not to be silent witnesses of the government's attempts to approve the budget as a cost to the Prime Minister's electoral campaign, but to turn it into a social budget, a budget for all citizens of Ukraine. Today we will consider the conclusions of the Budget Committee on a government-prepared project. They contain over 1.5 thousand rights of amendments to the MPs who are qualitatively modifying the draft budget. Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine" declares its willingness not only to support the conclusions of the Budget Committee, but also to the final budget, provided that there is a budget for our citizens, the subsequent factions, which are fundamental to our citizens' moments. First, raise the minimum wage to 300 dollars. Second, an increase of 35% for all budget staff. Third, taking into account the need to raise pensions for pensioners in 2005. Fourth, setting a living minimum of 423 bracelets. And we want to thank the Ukrainian National Deputies for supporting yesterday's project on this size of living minimum. Fifth, the full implementation of Article 57 of the Ukrainian Education and Restructuring Act. Sixth, the repayment of the debt of $6.5 billion in depreciated savings of citizens, solely in cash form. The head of the Viktor Yushchenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u3	Jury Lucenko is invited from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to prepare Leuk Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the faction, I am instructed to read out the statement on blocking political reform. The turn of the electoral company shows that the President’s election is turning into a war between two political camps. Hundreds of Ukrainian politicians are not looking for optimal ways of developing the country, they are playing Russian roulette. Whoever's lucky will have champagne, the loser will be buried. But in any case, the state loses to such elections, loses to Ukraine. Persecuting one’s own petty interests is fueled by an artificial confrontation between Western and Eastern Ukraine, between the Russian - speaking and Ukrainian - speaking population, and the people are married on different sides of the barricade. This is a self-declaring strategy for both presidential and country candidates as a whole. In the Supreme Council, there was a chance to stop the war on self-destruction between Yanukovic and Yushchenka's teams -- that's political reform. Reform would eliminate the very nature of the conflict. If the future president had been deprived of unlimited powers he would not have been able to destroy his opponents, our politics would have gone away from fear, precisely because it does not allow all parties to find common language. The socialists did not refuse or refuse the idea of carrying out a polytreform. This is a time requirement and our position on this issue is supported by most of the country’s leaders. Political stability, social stability, public peace can only bring about the creation of a parliamentary-presidential republic in Ukraine without any warning of a gradual introduction. There are things that can't be introduced in a step by step, either fully implemented or not done at all. The deputies of "Our Ukraine" have for a long time unwarrantedly criticized the Socialists for initiating political reform, saying how bad it is that the reform proposed by Frost seems to support Kuchma. Now "Our Ukraine" can make sure Kuchma has supported them as a result. President Kuchma stated that there was no point in carrying out political reform. Kuchma has decided to ensure that his attitude is won at all costs. Previously, the authorities felt their weakness and were ready to support the political reform proposed by the Frost. Today the authorities are ready to commit any crimes to defeat their candidate. The authorities have chosen a course of conflict and opposition. Obviously, polytreform itself would bring us real democracy. Socialists appeal to all MPs who rejoiced and rejoiced in the failure of polytreforms. You shouted that it was a victory, that you were building democracy, that you were actually building a Russian outage in the zone. I want to add. The only solution to the dictatorship imposed on Ukraine is to go to the runoff in the runoff of the Yushchenko - Moroz couple’s election. Only this will ensure elections, not a total Mukachevo, as today’s authorities plan. And don't let people lie about the ratings, but J.D. also promised 40-45 percent at the time, and it's known to have gotten 12. So we must reject propaganda and not give in to pressure. We have to vote for either Frost or Yashchenka, and this is going to be a vote for democracy. And by the way, President Frost's candidate is the only one who's going to conduct political reform in Parliament and let the country get rid of the dictatorship of the President's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u5	The word is Lukyanenko, a faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. He'll be followed by Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u6	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Deputies! Dear voters of Ukraine! From the very beginning, the authorities were breaking the laws and the assembly of signatures for a representative of the oligarchus of Yanukovich was already in grave breach of the law. For example, Drought, head of the Kiev State Administration, ordered teachers and other directors to collect signatures under fear of dismissal. The violations continued, and the Central Election Commission no longer responds. I wrote two motions in which I asked the Central Electoral Commission to issue a warning to candidate Yanukovitch that his registration as a candidate for the President was cancelled because of a gross violation of electoral legislation. But the authorities, the oligarchs, do not pay any attention to this and are preparing for a gross violation of the law. What's happening in Ukraine right now is kind of like a rough theater, like a comedy. The last. Some of the latest events, the latest facts of this order. From Kharkiv came information that they were preparing to gather 30,000 young people from the militia, from schools, and so on at Metalist Stadium, to give them up-to-date vouchers and send them to different areas in order to show off a strong display at polling stations, to make a badge there, to flip the ballot boxes and so on. One scenario is to declare the election broken. Next. Janukovic agreed with Russian representatives to falsify up to 4 million votes at the expense of Russian citizens of Ukrainian descent, Ukrainians in Russia. They have to give orders to the heads of the district administrations, put them together. They'll get all the ballots you want, the stamps, the numbers, because there's no territory on the stamps of the district election boards, there's only a number. So with these numbers, people fill out all the ballots you want, and then they make up acts like the polling stations sent all of this to the Central Election Commission. Finally, a meeting was held in Crimea to open another 50 polling stations. Thus, the authorities, losing confidence in their people and understanding that they cannot win in an honest way, are in grave violation of all laws and moral standards. Lately, Janukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u7	Please, your time is up. Lejko Grigorovich, your time is long overdue. They still can't hear you. The word is given by Shevchuk, the NDP faction, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. He'll be followed by Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to turn from a group of national MPs to the head of the political party, the Viktor Yanukovich Party. It is known that there are over 100 political parties in Ukraine, and each of them, especially their leaders, yearns for speed and victory. Most of them use politically correct fighting methods, most of them, but not all of them. The vice-president of the Supreme Council of Volina became aware of the efforts made by the district centre of the Party of the Regions to stop the release of the district newspaper "Volin" and appeal to the courts. We do not know whether your permission has been granted or not. But let me tell you, Mr. Victor Fedorovich, that the newspaper Volin published the first issue 65 years ago after the Polish occupation of our country, that all the following years it was the main newspaper in the area, and during Ukraine's independence, the newspaper of the Volin District Council, which became a co-founder of the printed body. The residents of the area appreciate the newspaper and the Volin newspaper's collection for its principles, for its desire to promote good and tranquillity in the multinational Volin region. Volin borders with the Republic of Poland and Belarus, and the Volinians can compare both the standard of living and the degree of democracy. And the first step in the progress of the Polish neighbours was freedom of speech, freedom and responsibility of the media, which formed the responsibility of the Polish authorities. Regrettably, the deputy district manager of the Party of the Regions, a former militia officer, initiated a lawsuit against the press. Sadly, many Volinians resent the activities of this central party, realizing that this initiative is far from local. Regrettably, when anger and mistrust, both in Russia and in Western Ukraine, heat up against the so - called people of the Donetsk nation. This conflict must be stopped. Stop, the honorable head of the Party of the Regions, the actions of your subjects. Then the national deputies will not have to talk about it from the parliamentary rostrum, as well as from the international parliamentary structures. Please understand this as a request from the national deputies of the Ukraine of Joulinsky, Bondarczuk, Slabenko, Kirilczuk, and Shevchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u9	The word is Polit, a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Tereshku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u10	Andrei Polit, faction of the Company, Leninski Komsomol of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, media representatives. It is no longer a secret that there are forces in Ukraine that are not interested in holding honest and democratic presidential elections. One of them is the executive power and one of its instruments is the militia. Here are some examples, but the examples are very good. On 25 September, members of the Agit group for President Peter Simonenko's post in Crimea were attacked by members of the Internal Affairs Office. On the road five kilometres before the city of Sevastopol, the propaganda van Komsomol Ukraine had reached the civil light car "Hundai", the license plate 22444 KS had cut without moving forward, and had tried to push our agitators across the road. Four young people ran out of the car, and they started pulling the agitators out of the van, threatening to punch them in the face, ripping the camera out of their hands. In all their appearance and actions, they resembled typical bandits with gold chains on their necks. One of them presented a certificate from Oppa Sevastopolski HWD employees to Novikova Sergey Vladimirović along with the other attacking villages in the car and hid. Two others immediately refused to show their official certificates, after which they had actually fled the scene. The conduct of these, with the permission to say, law-enforcement strikes at its cynical and permissive nature. The case of the attack was also recently reported in the Nikolaev region of Odessa District, where a criminal search officer named Mordarenko Vitaly Vladimir and his guard were following the car. On 11 October, an agitautobus, Komsomol Ukraine, near the pass of the Nikolaev Clay Land Plant, was attacked by members of the National Security Service of Ukraine, Buteyko Vladimir and Granovska Jury, with a team. They threatened the young agitators, insulted them all, tried to beat them up. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior of Bilokon: who gave the command to the internal affairs authorities to prevent the campaign for the Presidents of Ukraine, Peter Simonenka? Who gave the police the right to commit lawlessness against young people? Such methods cannot be defined differently than bandits. These cases are not isolated. In Chernigov on 18 October, two police officers attacked an agitator on the street of Shevchenko, 33, where they demonstrated a film about our candidate. They scattered the equipment, picked up the megaphone, and hid. In the Kirovograd region, not only in Kirovogradsky, but also in Ukraine, on 16 October, cynically blocked people from going to Kiev for a folk party "For the Fatherland! To the people! For Simonenko!" Why, then, does the current guarantor of the Ukrainian Constitution remain silent, since all power ministries are subject to him? Probably because it's his policy. With his consent, whether silent or not, the country has engaged in an indemnity of organs which, by their constitutional duties, must protect and protect citizens, contribute to the maintenance of the rule of law. The Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine, the faction of the Company strongly protested against the illegal immoral cynical actions of militia officers. With this action.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u11	Yes, thank you. Sergey Tereshuk, a faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. The faction of the People’s Agrarian Party has once again had to express its concern about the recent situation in the oil market. Everything seems to be under control for now. For several months now, the government has managed to find understanding with the market participants and to keep prices. But what are we going to do tomorrow? Experts predict that by the end of this year, gas prices will have increased dramatically. Moreover, the increase in oil and oil products due to rising prices in world markets, Russia's increase in export duties pose a serious inflation threat to Ukraine. And this, as always, will primarily affect the economic interests of peasants. Judge for yourself: This year more than 2.5 billion dollars have been allocated from the State Budget to support agriculture. Of course, this was not enough to solve all the urgent problems, but the cost went to the village, and many villagers believed in the power to stabilize the situation as soon as possible. But it didn't happen the way they planned it. Someone does not like the stability and tranquillity of our country. The immodest ambitions of oil, for which social interests are nothing, are destroying all the previous work of the legislative and executive authorities. According to previous estimates, the future increase in gas prices and agricultural fuel will cost several billion dollars. That is, all government aid will eventually lie in someone's pocket, but not in the pockets of peasants who once again decided to warm their hands at the expense of the village. It was both a year and two and three years ago. This will certainly result in a further increase in agricultural prices, which may no longer be sustained by the majority of the population, and the bankruptcy of many agricultural enterprises. We agrarians cannot look at this calmly, on this issue -- the issue of the food security of our nation -- in these conditions, we need concrete, effective measures by the Supreme Council and the government, and we need them not tomorrow, but today. In the order of the day’s session, there are several draft laws that provide for changes to the oil and oil taxation system. The adoption of the bills will allow the conditions to curb gas prices, motor and diesel fuel, which will help stabilise the socio-economic situation in Ukraine. At the same time, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, despite all the political passions that overwhelm our hall, calls on all deputies to return to normal constructive work, so that Parliament can perform the functions it performs in civilized countries. We are obliged at this difficult time not only to show decency but also to exercise high professionalism among politicians and legislators. We have to convince everyone, show everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u13	Fellow Members, a word to express dissatisfaction with an answer to a parliamentary request pursuant to article 8.3. 3 has Semenyuk. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u14	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I have taken the floor from this supreme rostrum of the State because I am not satisfied with the replies of the Attorney General's Office to the official appeals of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, which I am in charge, and my parliamentary questions about violations of the law, corruption and the problems of the State's economic and security problems with the actions of senior officials of the State, the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Property Fund. It's about the State Stock Exchange Holding Company. This company's good uncles from Kabmin have created favorable, unprecedented conditions for illegal enrichment on account of the sale of state-owned stock packages transferred to the company's statutory fund, with the money remaining in the company rather than being counted into the State Budget, as required by law. The preference of senior executives to the company was so strong that laws on privatization were not taken into account, nor were the laws on the fight against corruption ignored. The Kabin has adopted an appropriate decision, and the Holding Fund has issued a corresponding order, setting a precedent for other holding companies to privatize themselves and sell public property objects, not counting the costs of privatization into the State Budget, but using them at once for their own judgment. And the Attorney General's Office, which no one has deprived of the functions of law enforcement and of the law enforcement of the Cabinet of Ministers, does not take into account or perform this function. I think after that request, I'll still get an answer from the Attorney General's Office. What I'm saying is that today, a draft decree is being prepared for the Cabinet of Ministers to further privatize our paper industry, and in particular to reorganize the specialized publication "Education" for further privatization by the private structures of ZAT "National Book Product", which is part of the Moscow-based publication "AST". They run this process, Mr. Tobacco, and some Hinsburg. First of all, these attempts to privatize and publish our literature were made three years ago, but I did not allow this work to be done by my MPs. At present, there is a Kabminu decree, a parallel Presidential decree to give our publication entirely under Russian commercial structures. I realize that this is ahead of the election, a gift for Mr. Yanukovich's support, but that is why I am addressing the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, to take steps to prevent our companies from getting caught up in the production of teaching literature, which is an object of strategic purpose that forms the social consciousness of the young generation. Please consider this a re-deputy request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u15	Yes, please have another request from the Group Center, Gabrieluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I'd like a moment's attention. Today, there is such a feeling that injury permeates our whole life, our society. When declarations and slogans, without the exception of all political forces, are alone, but someone really wants the good and justice of our people, our country, and someone else is moving. And examples of this really huge amount, we all know them well with you, but for some reason we don't always talk. I would like to give an example of how today, for example, some public figures in the Poltava region are operating with regard to those entrepreneurs who work and work, and on which we see, there is a serious part, a serious burden on budget implementation. On the one hand, everyone says that today prices are falling, today entrepreneurs see that we have to meet people and actually lower those prices. In particular, the Poltava Breadcombinate, seeing that competition in the market indeed requires a price reduction of 10%, as a result of the Governor of the Poltava Region and the Mayor, or today our colleague, the Kukoba People's Deputy, all truths and lies, have twisted their hands and continue to do so, send checks, meet leaders, try all truths and injustices to force 500 people to further lower prices, which could result in a stop to the business, and this enterprise provides bread and bread products not only to the city of Poltava, but also to the Poltav region. As a result, an order is issued by the Governor, where not 30 per cent must, without any reason, lower the price of bread. And today, the collective is without pay. These are the methods, Victor Fedorovich, that your representatives on the ground today are working. And then let's see what the reaction is going to be as a result of this activity. There are many examples like this today. And I think we all understand that whoever comes with the sword will die by the sword. And any violence will always have terrible consequences. So let's stop these methods of work. Let's build our lives and do it for our people so that people can actually work really hard and not look back and not look back at the law enforcement structures that are trying to destroy entrepreneurship. I, Victor Fedorovich, address you as a candidate for the presidents and ask for order in Poltavsk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! The speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. With regard to suggestions, additions, clarifications that have been made in the speeches of the national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate referrals or assignments. Dear colleagues! We are now moving to the 2005 draft State Budget Act of Ukraine. First - reading consideration. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, of article 41 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. It's small, I'll read it to you: "The first reading of the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine begins with a report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary issues concerning the conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine. Representatives of committees, parliamentary factions, national deputies, representatives of Kabmin and the Court of Auditors wish to participate in the discussion. As I wish, I would point out. The conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine are voted on as a whole. If a positive decision is not taken, an article vote takes place. During the article vote, the proposals proposed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues are rejected and urged by the authors. Decision-making on conclusions and proposals to the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine is considered to be a draft law. The State Budget Act of Ukraine in the first reading. The budget indicators contained in the conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act should be balanced. Approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the conclusions and proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters, the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are drawn, I stress. And the third point. The Supreme Council adopts the draft State Budget Act in the first reading no later than October 20, with honorary colleagues, it is our duty, and October 25, if the draft budget was adopted after the resubmission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So when we listened to the budget presentation, when we brought it back to the Cabinet of Ministers, we had a corridor until October 25th. So, your honorary colleagues, it's about what we should consider and approve of the conclusions and suggestions that we have made. And we have to accept this document, I emphasize, regardless of what we do. But at the same time, I would like to stress another circumstance, my fellow believers. In total, 2782 amendments have been received and considered by the Committee on Budgets and, again, I stress, they are all taken into account. And now for factions and MPs. If the factions go: Our Ukraine" - 2, Block Timoshenko - 0, faction of Communists - 10, Social Democrats - 85, Socialists - 0, Labour Ukraine - 9, Regions of Ukraine - 8, NDP and SPTU - 81 amendment, Agrarian Party - 0, faction of the "One Ukraine" - 50; "Deminicatives", "Centre" - 0; Alliance - 1. So the factions came from 251 supply. And now for proposals from the national MPs. The faction "Our Ukraine" - 705; Block Timoshenko - 7; Communist faction - 83; Social Democrats - 109; Socialist Party - 53; "Trudova Ukraine" - 118; "Regions of Ukraine" - 138; National Democratic Party, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 412; People's Agrarian Party - 117; "Only Ukraine" - 68; "Democratic Initiatives" - 14; "Centre" - 71; "Union" - 60. Total: 1955 amendments. Postfaction made 20 amendments. The Committees tabled 539 amendments and the National Bank - 17 amendments. Total: 2782 amendments. Dear colleagues, we discussed the order and procedure of this issue at the Conciliation Council and we agreed on what the head of the Committee of Budget has to say, 15 minutes for the report, 10 minutes for the answer to the questions, then make statements from the factions, because this is where the people's deputies insist, and this is provided for in the Budget Code. We need to maintain cleanliness and then make the right decision. Is there no objection to such a question? And the House of Accounts is, we said, I read in the process of discussion. From the procedure, please log in for three minutes. Sokirko, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u18	Mikola Sokirko. Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u19	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u20	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We have a common position with Sokirka that we do not see today when we consider such a question, not just the Prime Minister who yesterday talked about giving all the veterans a car in turn. But we came to the conclusion that only a toy car could issue this toy giant. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like them to contact the Prime Minister right now, with his first deputy, Deputy Prime Minister. That's the first one. And secure their appearance here. I understand after 31, we'll deliver. But now. And to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I'm not a parrot. Three weeks ago, he gave you the court's ruling to rule out the Nightingales.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding "Glory." Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the factions of the People's Agrarian Party vote 20 cards and there are 21. There's no claim like that. The verdict is, so I can tell. I mean, that. Dear colleagues, as far as I know, there is an appeal, let the judicial system be examined. The other one. The documents are under review. Everything that's up to me, I've done. One second. It's about providing an apparition. Dear colleagues, I don't think this is a matter for the Supreme Council. We've set the agenda for the Conciliation Council in agreement, the corresponding letters are addressed. And I'm not going to do anything to ensure an appearance. We will act in accordance with the Rules of the Budget Code. The government presented the budget. He expressed his position. The Supreme Council of Ukraine must now express its position. Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have such an offer or question. For example, my proposal to the Budget Committee is to finance health care for rail transport, which falls to about one million people in this way, which will not be provided with health care, because there is no funding at all. I would like to ask you, when we discuss it, to give the word not only to the factions, but also to the MPs who are written down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u23	Thank you. Valentina Seminouk, please, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u24	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I support my colleague Olga Hinzburg's proposal to give the floor to everyone, especially to understand that today's Cabinet of Ministers doesn't need a budget, they just need a commendation on TV that they're already raising their pension, and they're giving their wages, and they didn't even come into the session room to prove a figure, right? Or we will continue to sell those objects that are strategically designated objects, eat money, and then there will be no more management, management, and budgeting. That's why I'm told, Vladimir Mikhailovich, no matter what this is and not our question, I think even now, during the speeches, all the MPs and the entire population hear that for today's Prime Minister, the President's budget is not needed, he's just talking about those numbers about those tasks and those commitments, speaking as a candidate for the Presidents, deceiving the same people. It's inappropriate, it's not beautiful, it's just a fake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. So let's do this: we agreed that the head of the Budget Committee 15 minutes for the report, 10 minutes to answer the questions. After that for an hour, we have everyone who's signed up here, we're all going to speak, we're going to have a discussion, we're going to make a decision, we're not going to make a decision, we're not going to let it go unless we're going to deny the head of the regulatory committee, we're going to have a break. Then we'll accept, we'll consider ratifications, and then we'll do some early work so that we can work in MP groups and committees. It's a 15-hour committee meeting. No objections? So, dear fellows, let's get to the bottom of this. The speaker is invited, and the head of the Budget Committee, Peter Poroshenko, is invited to report, please. Peter Alexiyovich, from the point of view of design.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u26	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to try to present from a constructive point of view the analysis that was done on the budget committee proposed by the government in accordance with the budget code of the State Budget. You know that the budget committee was in position that the Budget Code did not take into account the features of the budget adoption procedure during the presidential elections. These features include the fact that this government, which has prepared a draft budget in accordance with the code and has submitted it to the Supreme Council, is guaranteed, I emphasize, guaranteed this budget will not be implemented, because this government will, at best in 12 days' time, in the worst case, resign in a month's time. It's not clear who to match the budget figures, the income and expenditure figures. We therefore expressed our position on the need to amend the budget code. Sadly, this position was then perceived as unconstructive. In carrying out the Supreme Council’s decision, the October 1 budget committee, after completing its adoption to consider the proposals made by the people’s deputies, began its work. The work was carried out in the working groups, and the conclusions to be drawn by the budget committee were made at the level of the working groups that were approved by the committee's decision and which were part of the comparative table. We are absolutely convinced that most of the members of the budget committee worked qualitatively, although, unfortunately, we have observed the phenomena that are present today in the Supreme Council Hall, when representatives of individual factions for political purposes were trying to block the work of the budgetary committee as they are now doing very well, trying to block the meetings of the Supreme Council. Despite these problems, the work of the committee on the government’s raw and unbalanced draft law was quite stressful. I would like to thank all of us for working with us on this bill. During this period, as already announced by the Chief of the Supreme Council, more than 2,800 proposals were made to the committee. Dear colleagues, on second reading today, the Russian State Duma is also adopting the draft State Budget Act of the Russian Federation for 2005. Russia’s statistics state that only 210 proposals have been made to the Russian Committee on Budget Questions, from which only 70 are to be counted. This difference is more than 10 times evidenced by the attention and activity shown by representatives of all factions, the national deputies in the budgetary process. I would also like to thank them for this, because it is a fruitful and constructive work that ensures that the tasks facing the government in Ukraine today, I hope, the future authority, will be achieved and accomplished. I would like to remind you that today you will be offered an opportunity to consider in no way the government's draft budget. We will vote for the conclusions and proposals of the national MPs. This applies to all of you. And I'm stressing for the transcript that after we've given the comparative table, for the technical reasons that I have to figure out, the comparative table did not include the proposals of Vladimir Yavorowski, Mr. Slabenko, Andrija Derkač, so I understand that Olga Hinzburg and Catherine Vaszczuk. [[on a separate series of funding of the Writer Association and financing of creative expenditure]] [[about investment deposits]] [[on the information disclosure of authorities]] [[on the financing of railway medicine]] [[on the financing of the agricultural sector]] Dear colleagues, I propose from the very beginning. We will find out the technical reasons why they did not enter when they were registered in some way. I propose that we take equal approach to all the national MPs, if we include a comparative table of proposals for all the national MPs, there is a proposal that we also include these proposals of the 5 national deputies in the comparative table when we put the proposals of the national deputies to the vote, because the budget committee recommended the Supreme Council, to include all of them without excluding the proposals that came in accordance with the budget code. This is the second, with regard to priorities, which are characteristic of the negative features of the bill submitted by the Government, is the first, the return of mutual account practices to government budgets. First of all, this refers to payments of 6 billion dollars to compensate for the population's contributions to the Savings Bank at the expense of money. This is in direct contravention of Ukraine's legislation, which the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has clearly demonstrated in its conclusion. The Budget Committee has also supported this proposal, and this is one of the main points highlighted by the Committee on Budgets, about the need for living money on savings and on investments in insurance companies. The sharp increase in the share of the state budget special fund by taking into account the revenue of the budget of the sums mentioned above is also a negative feature of the budget, because in the main areas of budgetary policy we clearly anticipated that the special fund should be reduced because the Supreme Council is in fact being removed from adopting the key principles of budget expenditure. Inadequate economic growth rates with planned budgetary revenues, which we believe contains certain hidden income reserves, which are estimated to be between 4 billion and 7 billion dollars at the specified rates. But we're going to be able to work with you on the preparation of the 2nd reading budget. Overcrowding, contrary to the requirements of draft legislation, by rules that change tax legislation, the budget committee is clear on the conclusion that changes to tax legislation should be adopted by a separate law. These projects are now being developed by the National Deputies and are to be immediately introduced into the session hall. There are a few very fundamental issues that we would like to highlight. First. The draft budget provides for a moratorium on the introduction of free economic zones and priority areas. Firstly, this limits the constitutional rights of the legislators of the legislative initiative to initiate similar bills. It's different. This reinforces the existence of double standards in our country. Those who have already obtained free economic zones have registered projects, first of all, that's where businesses of an active government work, where taxes can not be paid, the rest of them certainly have taxes to pay, it's free economic zones to create, it's not possible that violates the principle of equal competition. We come from the principle that taxes are to be paid by all, including structures that are now closer to the current government and government. The situation involved in borrowing is of great concern. Dear colleagues! In the past year alone, government companies have borrowed a sum of over $1.50 billion. So, Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, I would like to address you, and the struggle that we had with you in common with you regarding the impossibility of privatization, more specifically the acceptance, the State-owned property, namely, the Odessa Airport, the Shrine, maybe the Ukrzalznice, is out of the question today, because these operators have made loans, state-owned enterprises have borrowed, the absolute majority of these loans have been taken abroad, and in fact the people of Ukraine have only been left with the cover already because all the property of the state-owned enterprises are in lieu of the borrowing that have been carried out by the woe-headed enterprises with silence, and sometimes and the silent approval of this position by the head of the current government. I think the fact that the Prime Minister is not present today in this sessionary room is an accident. What explanation is there? First. Throughout the history of budget adoption, there has never been a time for him to accept the absence of a government. I'd like to give you some examples, my respectable friends and colleagues. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm asking for your attention! I would like to give you a few examples that happened after the government submitted this draft budget to the Supreme Council. On September 14th, when the draft budget was ready for signature, the government gives it to us. The 15th Prime Minister signs a draft budget containing the income and expenditure distribution of the Pension Fund on one page. To give you a chance to compare, I'm showing you what the pension fund budget looked like in the 2004 budget looked like. This was a detailed calculation, multifaceted with seven articles of expenditure, detailing how pensions are going to be financed in 2004. Today, the government has tried to hide the disastrous situation that the Pension Fund was facing as a result of the unprofessional, populist steps taken by the Prime Minister during his pre-election campaign. The expenditure of the Pension Fund amounts to 41 billion proposed for 2005 in the draft budget, and the Prime Minister, his headquarters and the head of the Pension Fund allege that only to secure these minimum promises is required a sum of 52 billion. The pension deficit is 11 billion. And when you're told that no, dear fellows, due to an increase in salary, there will be an increase in income from the Pension Fund, that's a lie, because this increase in the payroll fund is already included in the budget by taking into account the 23% increase in the pay fund. Work. So, as a result, if, God forbid, this situation stays the way it is, we're only going to get this article's budget deficit of 10 billion dollars. On October 18, yesterday, the Prime Minister promised to reform the military, pay back the benefits, set up, and recover other expenses that require the general funding of 3 billion dollars that are not included in the State Budget. On October 19th, yesterday in Poltava, the prime minister assured the Kabmin programme that 22 million Ukrainians would be able to take interest-free loans. In his explanation, the Prime Minister explained that this would be due to the use of funds. Pension fund. Why? Because 16 percent of this amount is to be paid by employers and to go to the Pension Fund, and the rest is to go to pension accounts from which the Prime Minister is going to lend to the purchase of cars, household appliances, and others. This means that to the budget, if God does not give these nonprofessional prime ministers of recommendation, we will cut the budget of the Pension Fund in order to break this loan in half. This, I am absolutely convinced, is a testimony not to the threat posed by the Pension Fund but to the lack of professionalism of the Prime Minister and the whole composition of the government. Third position. Also yesterday, when speaking in the village of Kotel in the Poltava region, the Prime Minister promised that by May 2005, by the 60th anniversary of the victory, all war veterans, including platinum workers, would be provided with cars. It's very good that there's such an initiative, we're very much in favour of it. But the previous estimate of one million cashiers in need of cars today provides the calculation needed to do so, hold on to almost 15 billion dollars again. Again, given the time deficit, I cannot say that all of the Prime Minister’s promises together amount to more than 50 billion dollars. So this is naked, empty non-professionalism and populism. At the same time, I emphasize what we have today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u27	Just one minute to finish. Let's make a decision for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u28	If we take all the proposals into account, there is a source of increase in the budget. All they have to do is make them pay, pay their taxes. Pay the rent for the oil they're extracting, considering that the price of oil has tripled, pay the rent for gas, pay the price for the use of nadra, which is a national asset. But there was no such proposal in the draft budget and there would be no one unless the Supreme Council forced it to adopt a real budget that would allow for the key victory that we demonstrated yesterday by the entire Supreme Council. When Yushchenk's offer to increase the minimum of living is supported. And today it's 427 dollars. And the budget committee, looking for compromise, is proposing to support all the proposals made by the people's deputies, to calculate them, and to prepare for the second reading together with the Budget Committee, to propose to the second reading a real socially oriented, strained but professional budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions and answers. Ten minutes. Please sign up for the questions. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues not to argue with someone in absentia, but to talk about the content of the budget. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u30	Peter Alexiyovich, I wanted you to clarify a few things about the impression that we have a government that has divided citizens into two categories of elections and people. For voters, there are some figures and suggestions that have no confirmation in the document that we are considering today. And for these simple people who write the real numbers that you reported today in the document. As you, as chairman of the committee, continue to work on this document with the government, because if you step out of the statement of the majority of the remains yesterday in the Supreme Council, they propose that the Supreme Council start working in December. If they start working in December alone, you can imagine when they start working on the budget. So the question is, how can the active legislative work of the Supreme Council in blocking the government's work on the budget affect the budgetary process as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u31	Of course, I don't share a position on blocking the work of the Supreme Council. Fortunately, the Supreme Council is not blocked and is working effectively today. As for the government's position, well, I have my conclusions on this. I think the government today, after it's made all the promises I've just told you about, is just afraid of professional discussion, it's got nothing to say to you, it's got nothing to say to you, it's got no real reinforcements, it's got to do with national MPs, it's got to do with electors, it's got to do with experts who've been very clear today that the government's promises don't have any real reinforcements. And to confirm that, I would like to quote this thesis: the government promised that when we approved the 2003 budget, the minimum wage of 237 dollars was introduced in December-month. I lied. What Is the Responsibility? None. The government promised not to raise the price of food and fuel-oil materials. I lied. What Is the Responsibility? None. The government promised to carry out tax and military reform. I lied. I haven't spent these two years. What Is the Responsibility? None. So, dear colleagues, he once lied.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u32	Yes, Sergey Doroguntsov, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u33	Peter Alexiyovich, I'd like to ask you a few questions. And first of all, who did this bill on budget come under? It's not about the budget, it's about our budget system. As an MP and hundreds of other deputies, I am completely excluded from the budgetary process. We have no influence on what's going on. And now I see that the budget committee has already been removed. Keep going. The second question is: When it comes to a reasonable budget decision, it will never be too late. There was a time when we approved one budget and a month later we approved another. I ask that the National Academy of Sciences assign several million people to housing, because scientists already live as bums, 14 years nothing is built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I assure you that the Committee on Budgets is not suspended from the process. You can see that the budget committee actually developed an alternative budget. Despite the great tension, we had the opportunity to assess expertly the revenue and budget costs proposed by the government, to conclude that they were extremely risky or unprofessional. And I emphasize that if we vote on this project today, I'm addressing, including, colleagues from the Communist Party faction, because everyone has entered the project that you are invited to vote on. This is the first time we'll be able to consider all of these suggestions in preparation for the second reading. If we don't do that now, we're really putting ourselves at risk when these proposals are rejected, you're absolutely right, and the government will start working on a net budget that can't be allowed because it's actually about interests, about social protection for the entire population of Ukraine. So, I think it was absolutely right that we should follow the procedure set out in the budget code today, consider the budget, vote it. And I assure you, in preparing for second reading, to take into account the difficult fate of scientists at the Academy of Sciences who have extremely big problems with housing, we have these possibilities in full measure by procedure. Your offer was. Came in just in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u35	Michael Gladys, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiovich! The first-reading budget procedure of the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine and the Conciliation Council is supported today. And we will vote in the first reading. But I have two questions and suggestions for you. First. Not all deputies made proposals to the Budget Committee. For example: Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk. Thank you for saying that you would consider these suggestions. In addition, not all deputies can find proposals in the budget today. I'm asking you, since you told everyone to count. That's the first one. And the second is capping. It was an offer: to submit to the first reading. Some MPs have filed, others haven't filed. Please tell me how this question will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, I report to the committee. The committee at its meeting decided that capital investments, investment projects would be considered in preparing the draft budget for second reading. We recommended the general principle that we should go out of proportion to the population of these resources, taking into account the proposals of the people's deputies, and do so on this basis. It is therefore not too late to formulate these proposals according to the principle of proportionality. They will, they will enter into a draft law that will be considered when filed for second reading. That's the first one. Second position. We strongly stress that the principle is formed in a transparent way. We do not support the position of the government when tens or hundreds of millions of dollars are allocated by small lines to individual people’s deputies, while most areas of Ukraine remain unsecured. So we're clearly getting out of position. This principle is fixed by the draft decision that is proposed to you. If we support him, I think it'll be very good. As for the proposals made by the national MPs. The registration is conducted both at the Supreme Council Secretariat and at the Secretariat of the Budget Committee. Everything we've come up with, we've been trying to register. If there are specific suggestions, I highlighted five names. I'm really confirming that we're counting them. Let's work out other positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u38	Grosjev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Nikolaenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u40	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u41	Nikolainko, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Your Honor Petra Alexiyovich, please tell me, I have been looking closely at the budget code, but in the proposals of the committee we do not approve of it in the first reading, we only approve of the conclusions -- this is once. I understand certain subtleties here, but the approval and the second are so hidden. We redistribute through the internals, we redistribute through the budget only 28% of the gross domestic product is a hard liberalist budget that will make the pensioners even poorer today, and the whole budget area: education, science, culture, medicine and so on. More than 40% are being redistributed in Europe, so all the socialist parties in Ukraine are operating in the world. And last of all, please tell us that we have half of Ukraine's drinking water today, that it pays 32 klicks per kilowatt, or that we're going to provide the funds to defray this water.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u42	Thank you. The proposals of the agrarian faction, which was supported by a series of other factions, including the faction of Victor Yushchenk's Block, including the proposal of the Socialist Party faction, included a reduction in electricity, which is going to increase, entered the composition. As for drinking water, they go through investment capital for regional distribution proportionality, we have a separate source of revenue, through the introduction of rents for water extracted for the construction and provision of drinking water for the population. These proposals in the comparative tables are and this will allow us to take them into account when preparing the budget for the second reading. At the same time, Your Honor Mr. Stanislaw, you mentioned a very good question about the percentage of the government budget to the gross domestic product. Dear colleagues, this is double statistics. Why? In all countries of the world, the ratio of GDP to compulsory payments is calculated, contributions to the pension fund today under our legislation are compulsory payments, excluded from work. And so if you go through the State Budget, the Pension Fund, the social funds, you're going to go up to the total amount of redistribution that goes beyond the figure that you called 40 percent, that's a lot of pressure on the economy. At the same time today, I would like to go back to my previous proposal. You will recall that in the past year and beyond, I emphasized that we should make the funds of the Pension Fund available for the calculation and validation of the funds into the budget. If you'd supported my offer then, we wouldn't be able to have this vacchanal with the people's pension fraud today, because without the Supreme Council, it would have been impossible to take these steps. Then, from various circumstances, using the interests of the pension fund, of individuals, we did not do so, and today we are in danger of having the clerk hand over money to Grandma today, deceiving her, tomorrow he will take the same money, as he did with the minimum wage. And in fact, if we don't, the Supreme Council will be devoid of influence and control over the government's activities under the Pension Fund. So, I think after the adoption of the budget, we're going to bring these changes together with you to Ukrainian legislation and put the expenses of the Pension Fund under the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the representative body, without entrusting it to officials and bureaucrats. And I would like to make the most of this opportunity and turn to government officials who, I hope, are listening to us today, so that in no way would the professionalism of the middle chain allow these populist steps to take a very serious threat to the social policy of the state of Ukraine. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u43	Time's up. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the factions. In the course of our speeches, we will invite the head of the Court of Auditors to address the discussion. Please, we agreed to discuss this for an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Court of Auditors carried out an examination of the draft State budget. The results of the examination are given to you in the form of a brochure like this. Therefore, allow me to address some of the conclusions and suggestions. The draft budget is drawn up, as in previous years, with a derogation from the requirements of the Constitution, the Budget Code and the adopted budget resolution. Only 32 articles have been violated. Second. Second. Today, the Government's well-advised policy of underestimating the income part of the budget is with confidence. Remember, when the 2003 budget was approved, the Government categorically rejected the Court's proposal to increase the income portion of the budget. However, the budget has been overrun. 2004 The discussions on the increase in the income share continued until May of this year, but were increased in June. The calculations of the Court of Auditors have been confirmed so precisely that the Government has failed to allocate budgetary resources and there are more than 12.5 billion dollars in treasury accounts to date. The situation is repeated in the 2005 budget. Profit tax: an under-income share of 1.7 billion grevens, the value added tax has been artificially reduced by more than 2 billion. The Governments of Ukraine and Russia have agreed in the framework of the establishment of the EEP for the collection of VAT on export operations to destination countries. But the amount of tax that Ukraine will receive in addition is not included in the income portion of the budget, which is over 4 billion grivens. Such a list of understatements could be continued. A total of 9.9 billion bracelets, according to expert analysis, are under-income portions of the budget. The social dimension of the budget. Let's take the main unit, pay. In 2002, a government decision on remuneration was adopted on the basis of a single tariff network, beginning on 1 January 2003. But as the proverb says, we drank, we rejoiced, we counted, we slipped. I. The tariff network was moved to the second quarter of 2003 and then to 2004. Today, we do not recall this and, while we have not overturned our decision, we propose to increase the budget salary by 15.6 per cent. But this is the result of an increase in the minimum wage, not a systematic measure. The introduction of the tariff network as a systemic factor in the exit from the equation, the increase in labour productivity is not discussed today. The same is true of pensioners. The Law on Pension Insurance, which is based on the definition of the pension according to the length of work and earnings, has not yet dried up, and the Government has already changed the State ideology of the Act. On another social issue, today, it has sounded like compensation for the loss of citizens for the contributions of the former bank, the budget has 6 billion bracelets. There is no doubt that the debt owed to the State to the population must be repaid. But the proposed mechanism, in our view, is aimed at addressing not so much the problem of restoring the debt of the population as it is at overturning the disadvantages of our Government's beloved children, Naftegaz and other fuel and energy industries. In fact, it is proposed not to recover the understatement of living money with the payment of all the fines provided for, but to banally schedule it out of control through the use of opaque, opaque multi-stage credits. And we know who's gonna make it. For citizens, this one-off action will in fact and virtually nothing. The question, and what about compensation in 2006 and in subsequent years, remains open. Fourth and last. Think about 40 per cent of the income of local budgets is generated by transfers from the State budget. Such a centralized financial resource is now being sold under democratic centralism. As a result of the so-called budgetary reform, local councils are practically on their knees and unable to address the basic challenges of life. Respectable people's deputies, results.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u45	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u46	May I? Two minutes. Another half-minute. And it is no coincidence that the distinguished people's deputies have come to the point where they are considering the budget, I stress that the country's main financial document, you and the Government have been forced to deal with issues such as the allocation of several thousand citizens to the ongoing renovations, the rural roads, the major repairs of the pipelines. [[There's such a good anecdote.]] The level not even of the regional session, but of the district council. We are in a situation today not as ridiculous as it is tragic. And when we are talking today about the completion of budgetary reform, I am convinced that the question of improving local budgeting through inter-budgeting mechanisms is being improved. We must return immediately, because the power of poverty is a humiliating power. As a result of the examination and an article proposal for the draft State budget, the Court of Auditors is represented. I hope we'll get to know you. And our material will help you make decisions. In fact, in this table of our 111 proposals. True, not under the heading of the Court of Auditors, but under the heading of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the faction, Kasianov of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine has a word for the performance. Prepare Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u48	Cassianov Sergei Pavlovich, 37th constituency, faction of the National Agrarian Party. Dear colleagues, if we look at the government's bed today, and what we don't see today is the Deputy Prime Minister, the ministers, they must have very busy people. And the fact that we have no substitute today in connection with the Supreme Council, which has a huge army, I think that if we analyze the coming into the budget, we should make an offer to optimize these costs. Ladies and gentlemen, on June 24, the Supreme Council of the Budget Resolution stated that at least 10 per cent of the government budget should be allocated for the financing of the agrarian development programmes. In addition, at least one percent of gross domestic product should be allocated annually to social development. Accordingly, the Cabinet of Ministers would have to provide for 9.2 billion in the 2005 State Budget Project. the amount for agricultural production and 3.8 billion for agricultural production. Money for the development of the village's social infrastructure. In fact, the government’s first-reading project included only 6.3 billion agri-industrial financing costs. That's right. In addition, the real sources provide only 3.4 billion. the amount included in the financing and the total quota. In other words, the amount of expenditure proposed in the draft budget provides an opportunity to support the development of agriculture by only 1.8 billion, or 184 million. Money is less than actual expenditure this year. This is because in 2005 more than two billion dollars of tax revenue is lost in agriculture due to changes in tax legislation. Such a budget will put Ukraine’s agriculture in an extremely difficult position, discrediting the adopted legislative acts and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Besides. individual government expenditures are virtually virtual, as their sources of funding are the source of hopeless debts. These are the cost of gasification of the salt - 800 million. For the partial compensation of agricultural equipment - 200 million dollars. $600 million in money and government food reserves. That's right. The National Agrarian Party's faction at the presentation of the budget claimed that it was ready to continue with the government in June to agree on the positions on those issues. Moreover, in order to work more closely on the draft budget, the faction created a working group that, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, other ministries that are part of the agro-industrial complex, analysed the cost of the project for rural and agricultural purposes and proposed a number of changes and additions to it. Thank you to the committee that all proposals are now included in the draft decision after the first reading. Our position is fundamental and unalterable. State support for agro-industry should be systematic and result in greater competitiveness of the industry. To achieve this goal, we propose that the ideology be fundamentally changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u49	Yes, please let me finish 30 seconds. I'm asking everyone to bet on the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u50	In order to achieve this goal, we propose that the ideologies of state support for the APC be radically changed, not dissipate funds for low-efficiency measures and programs, but maximize their focus and direct financial assistance to agricultural producers. We will support this position, we will vote only for the budget that will be in the interest of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u51	Yes, Eugen Kirilchuk, a faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, is invited to prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u52	Eugene Kirilchuk, militia of the Yulia Tymoshenko block, the "Fatherland" party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and distinguished voters! I want you to know that this budget and those who campaign for it is not necessary. There's no faction of the Social Democratic Party, the Labour Ukraine and almost all of it, and there's no government representative. [[united]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it already This is the future representative. Because of this, it is clear that our government wants to block the budget from being accepted so that the budget process stops. Because of this, we are placed in such conditions that we today have to accept and approve the proposals of the budgetary committee in order to move the process forward, and so that on November 3 we get a second reading, then the Supreme Council will work on the real, the right, the professional budget. There is no one in the government today, but you have already heard the terrible things that almost the entire budget has already been handed out by Prime Minister Janukovic. Clearly, we have a problem in the Elections Act that any official, regardless of level, has to lay down his mandate before going to the electorate and campaigning for himself, and not using the entire army of state officials, money as his own, state-owned spreads to the left and right, to buy voters' votes. Today, it would be possible for the head of the Dusty Committee to count all the shortcomings in this budget. It's not a budget, because the first, the main point: fighting corruption and getting the economy out of the shadows, which is more than 50 percent, is another hidden budget, it's another budget. And nowhere does the Prime Minister and his agitators say why, with such beautiful, commendable activities, the government of Ukraine takes the last place in Europe at the standard of living, why the systemless use of money has led to a leap of inflation. And all that money, all that money that's raised by scholarships, pensions, salary, they're all there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u53	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich. Basil Gavriluk from the MP's "Centre." Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, our citizens of Ukraine! Today we are invited to adopt one of the most important financial instruments of the country: the draft of the State Budget Act for the following year. In that case, we must be as objective as possible, not politicize its acceptance, not consider it in terms of support for power or opposition. The project should be commended to the Government, in particular the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, which had appropriately approached its formation. As a result, we see a significant increase in both income and expenditure. In addition, the budget is a socially oriented budget under the State Social Protection and Social Security Programme in Ukraine increased by 77.3 per cent, in particular by increasing the minimum wage in 2005 to 262 bracelets per month. There are conditions for social security, social protection, free medical care and support for social infrastructure. Of course, that is not enough. But in our view, this is a real and serious step forward. However, I would like to draw attention to a number of significant points that determine the economy of our country and are budgeted. We have repeatedly talked to you about the fact that in adopting the budget, free economic zones are preserved instead of doing detailed analysis and closing them somewhere, and where priority development zones are really needed, trying to enable territories and regions to earn money. Unfortunately, we don't see it. Moreover, serious issues, I would say, with the tax policy that we have today in our State. Let us see in recent years what is planned for us. The lion's share is probably small and medium. And who did the analysis today, how they pay the taxes on our capital today. And you're well, dear colleagues know that we actually have double standards today when the biggest companies actually minimize their taxes and ask small and medium-sized businesses. So here we have to redistribute the efforts of large capital and do so, then there will be a fair approach so that what is happening today will not happen. And I think we need to ensure that there is a strategy for tax development, for the adoption of the Tax Code. For example, today there are the same options as in Russia when the new president came and set clear rules for oligarchs and large capital: pay all taxes first and then think about yourself. Regrettably, we have a long way to go by this example of the brightest state-owned enterprises, which are constantly losing, so there are abuses to be made at this point in 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u55	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, is invited to address Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, a review of the Cabinet’s draft Ukrainian State Budget Act leads to such conclusions. First, through wild privatization, liberalisation and other reforms, the state has eliminated the monopoly on productive and potential ownership and the impact on redistribution through the national income budget on the need for the current funding of the most up-to-date economic and social development programmes. If 50% of the domestic gross product was redistributed through the State budget in the year 94, this figure is 28.5, which is 21% of the state finances today working for the rich. Second, there has been little fundamental change in the tax system, which has been discussed so much, the same chaos and disorder, and the same insensible taxes, unwarranted tax benefits and write-offs that have already eaten more than 30 billion dollars in the current year — almost half of the budget’s income. The main tax is VAT, it's nothing more than a corrupt government swamp. Thirdly, the analysis of the budget project and the general situation indicates that we have a money-credit system broken down in Ukraine. The analysis of credits from commercial banks shows that 90% of consumer loans are credits for the purchase of imported products, so our credit resources are going to finance foreign producers. The oligarchs are kept abroad, estimated by experts at $50 billion, or 3 government budgets. Conclusion: The 2005 budget is not a development budget, but a tool for achieving political goals, far from the real social situation of the majority of the population, it does not create the conditions for a global recovery of the economy, but only simulates it. We, the Communist faction, having studied this draft law in detail, have offered 24.5 billion dollars of money, which have offered to target the following, in addition, the following: repayment of wages, social assistance and scholarships in the amount of 1.9 billion dollars, increased salaries for budget staff, food security and the development of an agribusiness complex to allocate 20 billion dollars, at zero rates, that is to say, 10 billion debt loans and the restoration of social infrastructure to 2 billion, support domestic energy construction -- 1 billion dollars for the development of Hersonian combines, partially offset by the interest rate of commercial banks' loans to young families -- 100 million dollars worth of money, 100 million dollars of money for the development of Hersonian combined. cars for disabled people and veterans and a lot of other things. So the faction of communists today is proposing radically to change the state budget, to review all the basic indicators. Otherwise we won't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u57	Yes. Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun, from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Get ready for Santa Tomenka from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction. Dear colleagues, I cannot agree with all the characteristics that are now echoing from the Supreme Council's rostrum, because working on the Budget Committee for 6.5 years, I can say that this budget is not the worst. According to the indicators currently planned in the budget for funding, for example, the repayment of the debt under article 57 of the Education Act, which, by the way, was created by the previous laws, and is proposed in this law to eliminate it. By different parameters. According to pension insurance, the Chernobyl insurance, the welfare of the socially vulnerable population -- this budget is the best compared. But I'm not saying that it's the best in general for the state. And that's why we have to deal with it with absolute understanding. Moreover, they are not funded by the State Budget today. They're only financed. In part, we are funding the Pension Fund itself for individual types established by law, payments. And that's why I can't agree with the arguments that come from my colleagues that I work with on the committee. I can tell you that we have a huge problem. We need to make a budget decision and transfer it to the government. How do we pass it on? If all amendments are now approved, there is a problem, for some amendments simply contradict each other. One amendment suggests that funding be added to the principals and that the others eliminate it altogether. And the Supreme Council has the opportunity and the right to express its position in each of these amendments. In addition, the Law was passed yesterday, according to which the minimum standard of living was changed. And it's up 40 dollars against the government. This means that certain budget parameters will also be changed. And if the Supreme Council has expressed its position on this issue, it cannot but reflect it in the State Budget Act for the following year. So my proposal will be to forward this bill to the budget committee for the re-reading of the first reading. Under such conditions, we will be able to prepare tables in a qualitative manner and provide an answer, whether any amendments are approved or not, first of all, to prepare these proposals in a balanced manner as required by the budget code. And I can also say that some of the amendments because of this enormous stress have not been included in the text of our table, especially many suggestions from me personally, from the faction of Communists regarding the editing of the Academy of Sciences expenditures, have not been included in a table that does not correspond to the materials that we have on the committee. And that's why it's meant to be processed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I just want to say that the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Budget Code, is adopting the draft State Budget Act on the first reading no later than October 20. Then we didn't have to take it to the session room and discuss it here. One committee's decision, then the proposal comes up with another. That's equivalent to putting the budget down, not by washing it, so by kicking it. Then let's be clear, the Budget Committee has been working. The Budget Code — Who Adopted It? The Supreme Council has accepted. She defined such terms for herself. Let's make some decisions. As far as raising the subsistence minimum is concerned, there will be a second reading to reconcile all of these positions. And on the second reading, we're going to approve the income, the cost of the budget, and then we're going to keep working. I would not want the ball to remain in the field of the Supreme Council so that we can work in harmony with the Codex Budget. Please, Mikola Tomenko of the faction "Our Ukraine." The next one will be Nicholas of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u60	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenko block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, our citizens. I'd like to draw your attention to the most dangerous thing that's going on around the budget. You know, in recent times, the government has stopped dealing with citizens, countries, the budget, including. And it would probably be right for the government to hang the castle, write that the government is closed, and everyone goes to the polls. Because real budget work and economic work are not being carried out by the government. The tragedy is that the government went to our national service machines for our national service costs and campaigned there as if that was the case. And so if you look at the document that's presented here and the statements that are made by the leaders of the government for the electorate, we have a serious conflict. Come on, I've talked to economists, and they've counted, if you count the Prime Minister's statements about all the veterans driving cars, all the pensioners get these supplements, all the schoolchildren get free ice cream and that sort of thing, it's either that or the Prime Minister's government hasn't read the draft budget, or someone accidentally slipped him the budget of the United States. There, as you know, is a little more money. Because the Prime Minister’s promise of all veterans, and for which our soul has the same pain as the Prime Minister, will cost practically the entire income portion of the budget in the region of 60 billion dollars. Therefore, the distribution and play of government on what are electors and who are citizens is dangerous. In general, I would ask the Prime Minister and the head of the National Bank not to make any economic statements, for after their statements we have increased prices and inflation. Because when a statement is made that citizens don't have to pay for residential services, because, as a pre-election thing, they're going to be paid for their savings, they're going to suffer the conscious citizens who did it and paid it, and the branches are going down. For such statements, it is not an administrative responsibility, but a criminal responsibility. So once again, Victor Yushchenka's bloc is in that position: either the government has to go to the polls, and we need the President to appoint those people who will work on the budget, and the Supreme Council has to take this function, and we are willing to support the budget only under the terms of Victor Pinzenik's statement from the faction, he's going to make it sound again in our determination. We're willing to vote for the people's budget, not the voter's budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u61	Stanislaw Nikolainko of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Then the committees signed up. Valentina Seminouk and Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u62	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We took a deep and comprehensive look at the 2005 budget, made our proposals to the Budget Committee in all directions of the economy, the social sphere, and so forth. But I and our faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, our leader Alexander Frost, are deeply concerned about the poverty of people. And this budget doesn't really answer these questions. And unfortunately, I want to say, even this pre-election campaign of ours, which should have answered where to move to Ukraine, what to do to get us out of this state of poverty? Nor does the answer, for today we have a struggle of ideas, not a struggle of ideas, but a struggle of specific people. The necessary market changes that have been designed to stimulate people’s initiative have taken place. But this has made life easier for people, and it has made life worse. Ukraine today needs a left-hand turn in politics, it needs a socialist direction, Ukraine needs to take the path that most Western European countries are moving today. Look, one Ukrainian today's budget spending is going to be around this year, the next, $326 now, and the next, about $440-450 per citizen. But in the same Russia, almost $900 per citizen, almost $2.5,000 per citizen in Poland. Why does Poland have a budget five times higher for one man than for Ukraine? Because there, in Poland, for the first time, the left are united, the modern left, Alexander Kwasniewski is the same Alexander Moroz, and they have a five-fold budget today than Ukraine. And they steal five times less than they do in Ukraine. Here's the answer. In its proposals, the Socialist faction has made many specific proposals. First, we suggest that the authorities cancel any payment for help given to ordinary citizens so that they do not rob people. We're proposing the liquidation of general and special funds, and there's only one fund. There is no need to deceive people today. We suggest that the financing of the rural FAPs be. was included in the grant from the central budget, we suggest that land acts be made compulsory at the expense of the state and that those who have already paid the funds to compensate people. We propose to introduce the 57th article of the Education Act in full terms of indexation to the average industry, increase five times the cost of nutrition for children, allocate not 0.4 to 0.5 per cent, but 1.7 per cent, as is required by legislation, to education at least 10 per cent of GDP, and now to double. We're proposing to the village to increase loans to one billion dollars and to make them appear to be below 3-4 percent of the year's. Without that, we will not vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u63	Yeah, from the committees. Valentina Petrovni Seminouk. Please prepare Hennadia Josephovich Widowenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u64	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the 2005 State Budget project has offered $3 billion per year from the privatization of state property. This means that the privatization of strategic targets continues, even more so if we look at the number of objects involved and today there are 154, it is the same as the continuation of sales policies, the distribution of budget fillings, food, and not investment in production. There are no dividends, they are now reported to be only 300 million dollars when we had 500 million dollars in the previous year. And if you figure out that the main assets today, where there are shares of state property, in joint ventures, in mixed property enterprises with a total of 600 billion, the sum of 300 million is too small. The government’s rent has also been reduced accordingly. This indicates that today we will not have the amount of income from those objects that are still in state ownership. Regarding the coming of funds from privatization, they need to be reduced by two main factors. Those objects that are profitable and work in a stable manner should be excluded from those lists that go to privatization. In particular, I'd like to ask the ministries and departments that are offering to privatize the Odessa Port Facility. 0.5 billion dollars in three years has been invested in modernizing this enterprise. In the first quarter, the net profit -- 105 million dollars -- that is, the business is working profitably -- is now growing pace. The question is, Why sell it? This enterprise is a strategic target, an object that is vital for life, and its work depends on its external market work and the quotas for the supply of mineral goods and products that are transported through pipes. So I think that this object should also be excluded from the privatization lists. Privatization to the Shrimp has also been added to the list of objects that will be sold this year. Also, this object, I think, should first be considered in the session hall, is profitable, and stable. And that bill that was passed by a socialist faction, and I'm particularly interested in the fact that the cost of an object that is profitable should not be privatized, we should leave with you state property and work at full capacity, from production, from the fullness of the budget that the companies in question are working in a stable way and giving taxes and making an appropriate profit. Therefore, the suggestions are taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u65	Hennady Osipovich Udovenko, please, as chairman of the Committee, prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to commend the work of the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee has considered in due course all the proposals, the many proposals that have come from the committees, including the committee that I lead, the Committee on Human Rights, the inter-national relations, and the National Deputies. And this is a work done during a very difficult period of the situation in the Supreme Council, including the boycott of government factions of the Supreme Council, and secondly, and it's very sad and very dangerous that the government, which today should be present and have a discussion with the Supreme Council, has joined. It is very dangerous that today the government, led by the acting Prime Minister, did not appear at the meeting of the Supreme Council. At the same time, I am proud that the Supreme Council continues to work, and the Supreme Council adopts laws that need to be adopted. Our committee on human rights, nationalities and international relations has twice considered the draft budget proposed by the Government at its meetings. So to say that, despite the fact that the committee has been paying attention for a long time to the need to significantly increase funding for activities related to the protection of the rights of national minorities, there is something being done, but it is not in fact driven by the fact that nearly a quarter of the population of Ukraine today are representatives of national minorities and indigenous peoples as the Crimean Tatar people. Assumptions do not increase sufficiently to meet the minimum needs. These proposals are largely taken into account, but the main proposal is not taken into account either by the government or the Committee on Budget Affairs. You can't find the chapter "Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Man" in the budget. There is no such chapter in the budget for a long time. So today our citizen is defenseless from the point of view of the state's budget. And that's not right. We understand the complexity of this problem, the committee has repeatedly proposed that the Ministry of Justice be the main coordinator for the protection of human rights. And the last. I call on all national deputies to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u67	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u68	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The 2005 draft budget, which was presented for consideration by the Supreme Council, as in previous years, does not take into account the introduction of the minimum wage from 1 January 2005, which the communists and the direct candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, i.e., 792 bracelets with the renewal of inter-employment ratios, which require only 10 million dollars for the budget of the city of Kyrovgrad. A particularly critical situation has been the provision of treatment-prevention facilities. For example, during 2000-2004, the estimates of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance for Health do not fully anticipate the need for health care facilities, even for wage and energy costs. Estimates of health expenditure for 2005 provide only 45Y5 percent of the minimum need for medical facilities. Thus, it will not be possible to provide from 1 January 2005 for the treatment and nutrition of war veterans who are being treated in wards for war invalids of medical and preventive institutions under the rules of monetary spending set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Regulation on increasing the standards of payment for the service of war veterans and in health-care institutions. In addition, despite repeated calls to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance for the provision of local budgets for State budget subsidies for expenditure on the free provision of children's food for the first two years of life from low-income families and the free and indemnity-free leave of medical resources guaranteed by legislation in 2005 are not foreseen again, whereas only the budget of the city of Kyrovgrad needs 2.4 million dollars. And in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code and the Ukrainian Police Act, the establishment of a local police, whose maintenance costs have been financed from local budgets since 2005, but, given the need to fund crime prevention measures, local councils will have to approve appropriate programmes, which, under the conditions of limited funding in local budgets, will be almost insurmountable. Only to pay off the cash support of the post office staff and the Kirovograd militia's district instructors will require 2.4 billion. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, with the formation of millions of dollars and millions of bills, is determined by the amount of 1.2 million dollars. I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u69	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. to prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u70	Fifth District, Crimea, Mironenko, Communist faction. Dear compatriots, I have watched in my district all these years as ordinary citizens live, and I see that life has not improved. If wages and pensions are increased, prices, tariffs are increased rapidly. And despite the sobriety that life has become better and more fun, life has become better understood for the oligarchs, more fun for the oligarchs, and the people are not better off. Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko demands, given that our proposals are not accepted by communists, at least to draw attention to what is being done in brotherly neighbouring Belarus, where a socio-economic programme is being implemented, is very close to the socio-economic programme of the candidate for Presidents of Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko. What is the fundamental difference between two approaches to the budget, social and economic development programmes in Belarus and Ukraine? If Ukraine is preparing a budget for the benefit of the oligarchs, the major capitalists who are now supporting the two most so-called highest-ranking candidates in the Presidents of Ukraine, Belarus is preparing a State budget for the people, preparing a programme for the real development of the economy, which is why the economy has now been restored, reached the level of 2000 and Ukraine has to develop for another 30 or 50 years to reach the 1990 level. What about social orientation, pay, real pay, real pension, health care, education. Every reasonable person understands that when each of these two highest-ranking candidates is elected, life will be the same as the rest of those 1 years. We need to support Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich why? Because, at least in Belarus, besides the economy, wages, pensions are hugely higher than we are, prices, tariffs are low, often symbolic. Free education, health care is much better than ours. Every young person is provided with work after school, as in good socialist times. All good Lukashenko Aleksandr Grigorievich, whom I highly respect, took. Similarly, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko will take all the good things of the past socialist. We see that Belarus is clearly marked by an alliance with Russia, which ensures economic growth, an increase in the standard of living of the people. Unlike other candidates, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko clearly adheres to the idea of a union of brotherly republics in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, please. The faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorivsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u72	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, reputable Ukrainian people. Without any policy, I will prove to you that this budget should be written not with two letters of f, as Professor Viktor Janukovic writes, but with two letters of b, the bandit budget. Why? The evaluation of the Chambers of Auditors was presented by her head. According to an expert estimate, the total revenue of the State budget is under 9 billion 911.3 million dollars. The first act of banditry. There is a need to increase by five billion the proceeds of privatization of state property. And that's why it's already 15 billion 429 million. Next. The value added tax in 2005 is over 2.3 billion dollars. Plus, so it's already 18 billion dollars, 18 billion dollars in shellfish alone is somewhere in the sleeve. That's the first one. The other one. Contrary to the requirements of legislation, the Constitution, the decision of the Constitutional Court in a number of articles, in particular article 48, the rights of individual categories of budget workers, military officials, members of the military, the primary warehouse for benefits, compensations, guarantees under Ukrainian law are tightened again. It's for all those pickpockets who were put in charge of 250 from each area to prepare. All others to be placed on bases under Kiev. Everyone knows that the government is now being proposed, in particular by article 47, to provide for the total destruction of the benefits of those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. It will now be written that the food rations of the affected citizens are carried out in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Why? There is the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And we will live by the laws, not by the concepts that are being established. Article 48. I have also mentioned the Constitutional Court’s decision of March 17, 2004 — a direct violation of that decision. And there's a lot of that stuff. What's "the establishment of a moratorium on the creation of new special free economic zones"? No one can work like this, everyone has to work in Donetsk, on the pre-Denetic scenario, and destroy agriculture to the end, as they do. That's why I'm the one who offered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u73	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u74	Dear voters! First of all, I'm talking to you people who are robbed, who are deceived. To this situation that we have today, sometimes I'm reminded of Bismarck's beautiful phrase, which sounds something like this: never do so many lie, like after hunting, during war, and before the elections. We have a third for today. But the version of the budget that the government has offered us, I have every reason to call it that it is prepared by a team of adventurers, adventurers and politicians and economics. I mean, first of all, if you take into account all the things that, literally, the last days have been promised by the prospector of the highest position in our state, the Prime Minister, all that he has promised, this budget should just be thrown out because there are no promises in it. Here, a member of our faction, Vladimir Bondarenko, made a great joke this morning, and this was confirmed once again by Dustenko, speaking here, that on the cars that were promised yesterday to our unfortunate frontalists and invalids, we need more than 11 billion, and Bondarenko joked that only the money that could buy small plastic cars, and I figured that even without batteries, because if you put more batteries in it, there would be nothing in the budget for that money anymore. Well, is it possible to live in such a situation, is it possible today to talk to our people in this way, which has led to the absolute poverty of the people? Absolutely not. Because of that, I think it's a situation. The whole paradox of the situation is that last year there was no one here who listened to the opposition. Raped, majority voted, and the budget went. What a budget, you know. We then took the government by the hand, and 10 billion wasn't completely, but it was put back into the budget. Now look, where's the majority that voted for this budget yesterday? Where are they? Where is the government? I feel like a lot of people have a conscience, and they're simple. Shame to come here. God forbid this illusion of mine is true. It seems to me that today a unique thing has happened: Parliament has proved that it is, the budget committee has proven that it is, and instead of this adventurous, I continue again, the budget proposed by the government, today the Ukrainian people have the opportunity to receive the national budget, which is composed by the people's deputies, and there are over 700 proposals only from our Ukraine. This budget has all the most basic things in it, and it's true. That's why I call on everyone. I understand that there may be differences. Let's vote today, this will be a colossal victory that we have voted here in Parliament, representatives of the opposition, honest people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u75	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Now, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bourgeois Parliament, is looking at a draft budget for 2005, introduced by the government of capitalist ministers. Of course, there are some things here that may attract an ordinary person, a small Ukrainian, but entirely, this budget is designed to meet the needs of, first and foremost, rich and overly rich people. We have to think about it normally. Under the capitalist system in Ukraine, there can be no other budget. Let us recall the adoption of this budget codex, which was then presided over by the Governing Council’s Committee on Budgets. This budget codex, in the form in which it was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was prepared to meet the needs of the person who presided there. The bottom line is what we have today. The government gave us this bill. If even with our amendments we return, accept it now and return it to take into account our amendments to the government, the government under this budget code is fully entitled, forgive me, do not care about all our amendments, individual deputies, individual factions -- and return it to the form in which it will be considered appropriate. So it's clear from this situation. And we realize that we're not boys to beat. The Communist faction supports such a budget, the 2005 draft budget cannot, for such principled reasons. And a few words about the social protection of Chernobyl. There is some increase in budget funding. I could give these numbers 20, 40 percent, and so on. But, at the same time, I would like to emphasize that when the Chernobyl laws were passed in February 91st in Soviet times. In this 91st year, they were executed, in 9 months, the execution time, they were executed by 60%, after Ukraine became dependent on more than 20-25% of the Chernobyl programs are not funded, so the respected Chernobyls make certain conclusions. And a few words about funding robots from the development of a mineral raw material base, I want to say there are two sources of non-target hidden use of funds. First of all, it's proposed to use 70 million bracelets to study the naphtha-gassy properties of those wells that were once used and are no longer used, and they're on conservation. And there's a bunch of tens and hundreds of them already pecking around.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u77	Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction, please prepare Eugene Gourney.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u78	Anatoly Frost, Zaporez district, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, my dear colleagues, all our discussions in the walls of the Supreme Council about the fact that the 2005 budget should be more budgeted by the village and socially oriented, as I think remained discussions. Much is said today about the transfer of social services to local self-government, and this is one of the problems I want to stop at, the transfer of social resources to these objects, the preparation of documentation, and these resources are practically not available in the budgets. To get them, these costs are needed for the local level, the former owners don't want to produce them, and in the potential new ones, there's no cost and there's no social sphere, so I'm not going to count, let's say, kindergartens, clubs, boiler rooms, they're nothing, they're taking them apart, they're stretched out. Land reform is recognized as bankruptcy, technology is sold out, and water and sanitation remain negligible. Then the court’s decision takes these objects into the village council’s balance. This is one way of implementing the President's decree. The second is more benevolent. The latter is not passed on to the village’s infrastructure, such as water supply, sewage, gas supply. Therefore, I believe that in the 2005 budget it is necessary to put in place funding for the preparation of documentation for the transfer of these objects and also for funding in order to save the social sector in the countryside. The President's decree of 15.07.2001, "On first-hand measures to support the development of the social sphere of the village," was relied on with great hope. And as a result of the variance between new regulations, orders, actions and actions is 0. Dear colleagues! I would like to put a stop to a number of problems that I think are under-explained and under-funded. A major problem is the transportation of children especially in rural areas. All of this weighs heavily on the local authorities. The school bus program is not running. I think that 83,5 million bracelets that have been set up to execute this program are not enough. I think every MP knows that the voters on this issue are turning to us. The next thing you have to bet on the budget is the regular schedule of local self-government. If there are more than 13,000 land users in the silrada, what can one land specialist do? The preparation of papers on privatization or land leases and other paper fibers is a heavy burden that the authorities of local self-government are not coping with today. And I would also like to take into account the offer of communists, the requirement of the Budget Resolution for a separate budget supplement of 800 million for gasification of population sites, 450 million for investment projects, 450 million for technical disaster operations. Divide by population of areas, I think that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u79	Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine." The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u80	Deputies! All right, listen up, listen up, listen up, The budgetary processes of 2004 and 2005 are as they propose. they're offered by the government, they're demanding a new term for our phraseology. And these terms are already worked out and popular in culinary use. Some of them I want to publish. First of all, we have so-called economics in our country and, accordingly, the processes of fiscal corruption and fiscal racket in the light of free economic zones and customs holes at the expense of another Ukrainian budget. It is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, bringing it back to line with the budget code, and the Ukrainian people, on October 31st, ending this criminal power and electing President Viktor Yushchenk. The absence of the government today, as well as the parliamentary government coalition of the regiment in the Hall, demonstrates the desire of this regiment to continue this transitional period of economics for another 40 years, but, unlike the Bible Moses, to eat the manna of the heavens at the expense of the Ukrainian people. But the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proved its efficiency, hope, prove it today. It's a pleasure that we are ahead of schedule at the time of the legislative implementation of the projects, decrees by the future president of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. That is why I, for the conclusions of the budgetary committee to be voted on today and to form the basis of a budget that will be generally adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future government of popular trust. But in doing so, I would like to identify the following points that are not reflected in the current government at all: first, the compliance of Ukraine's economic development programme, Ukraine's 2005 budget. Mr. Janukovic, by his completely unprofessional pre-election promises, has balanced both the program and the budget, here and the American budget, not enough to fulfill those promises, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine noted yesterday, rejecting the program with its magic illusions and tricks. And in line with Victor Yushchenka's programs, I propose: firstly, the income part of the budget to increase by 9.9 billion dollars; in social relations, to set a minimum wage of 300 dollars as of 1 January 2005 and a minimum wage of 432 dollars as of 1 January 2005. Reimbursement is provided for the sums of depreciated savings of the citizens of Derbybank in cash only. And that's why the other moments my colleagues were talking about. At such hidden income, the budget deficit should not exceed one percent of the internal gross product. The distribution of investments has to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. For reasons, please write this down. Five minutes of motivation, please log in. Sign up, five minutes of motive. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Odynik. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u82	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity." Please pass the word to Chernowitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u83	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u84	Dear People's Deputies, let us vote on this issue. Well, what's more important than the budget? The budget submitted by the Government is the budget of yesterday. That we must vote today, and we can make all the comments that we have put in the budget, but that's great. Well, doesn't that deserve attention? Let's talk a little bit more and take our proposal so that the entire people know that they only have protection in the Supreme Council. It does not exist in other bodies at all. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. It's very important. Because people need to hear who is protecting their interests, whether we or those who are filing thief budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u85	Yuri Solomatin, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u86	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, under the circumstances, there are some important things I have not been able to say from the rostrum. Chernobyl does not satisfy the budget project proposed by the government. So they threw them all over Ukraine and gathered tomorrow October 21st at 10 a.m. by the walls of the Supreme Council of Chernobyl officials from all over the area. Well, their observations, their proposals, they'll say so themselves. But I'll also talk about one of the main points that our Committee supports in terms of environmental policy, environmental management, the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. So far, no real step has been taken to comply with the President's decree of June this year on the establishment of a Committee of State and the appointment of the committee's head. Because that's what people will determine, the budget and the committee, the budget and the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u87	Please don't run Parliament yet. Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u88	Catherine Vaschuk, National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Confirmed by the honourable chairman of the Committee of Dusty from the rostrum, who would consider my amendments. And they apply to the following in their base that village funding is going to be at 10 percent of the cost. And this has to be at least 9.7 billion. I'm asking you to fix it. The powder has to be confirmed. And second moment. There are three such hidden plots, one 800 million to go to the gasification of the village, proposed that debt repayments be made by Naftogaz of Ukraine. And I want Dusty to confirm that this is not going to happen, because these are hopeless debts. So the village gas won't get what it's supposed to be in the bulk of the budget that's going to take into account our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u89	The closing word will have the head of the committee, then he will say so. Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u90	Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u91	Mikoli Rudzikowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u92	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear National Deputies! We socialists have analyzed this budget, and we can describe it as liberal, which does not solve any social issue for citizens: there is no free education, as in the Constitution, or free medicine. Only partial assistance is foreseen for the poor. That is, the Constitution is not being implemented in the bill. As socialists, we insist that we include in the budget a supplement to the Pension Fund so that pension 284 remains after the presidential election. We insist that the minimum wage be set and raised in this budget. We believe that the adoption of such a poor budget will not help Ukraine and will not give Ukraine a chance. We need to get closer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u93	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u94	Ukrainian Republican Party, Lukyanenko, Yulia Timoshenko’s block Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! I've done it many times, and our faction has argued that it is necessary to reduce the shadow economy. Now in the new budget that we're presented with, it's actually going on again. A lot of businesses don't pay taxes in full, so we have a lot of the economy in the background. This part needs to be printed and included in the budget. We know an example when Yushchenka was removed from her post as Prime Minister of the oligarchy majority in the Supreme Council for making an offer to cancel 936 businesses. The oligarchic majority in the Supreme Council did not then reduce, cancel, but removed the Yuschchenk himself. So we have to finally solve this problem, and then our budget will be at least a little bit more transparent and a little bit more transparent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u95	Yes, dear colleagues, we exchanged our thoughts for reasons. Now, a closing statement from the head of the budget committee, please. I'm in the rules. Now, if I have to, I'll put it again to continue the discussion. You realize that the result is going to be negative. Please, Peter Alexiovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u96	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to briefly answer the questions raised in the budget discussion. Dear Catherine Timofievna and everyone who has an interest, what should we vote for, you have a comparative table. In this comparative table on the left is the text of a law given by the government. We don't vote for him, he doesn't have anything to do with the subject that we're discussing right now, because according to the budget code, we vote exclusively on the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee based on the proposals of the people's deputies. Request: When determining for yourself what you are voting for, look exclusively at the right table, where the names of the legislators stand. Dear Catherine Timofievno, to a figure of 8.2 billion dollars has nothing to do with either the budget committee or the agrarian faction, this is the position of the government that he expressed in the first-reading budget. We disagreed, and we recommend in these conclusions that the financing of the agricultural sector be increased. Dear colleague Mikola Rudzkowski! I'd like to see if you could listen to me instead of talking on the phone. I'd like to say that the position of the Socialist Party in full range is taken into account in the conclusions, and in terms of retirement, to ensure what you've stressed in your speech, and in terms of providing funding for free education, because they were in your proposals and they're fully included in the comparative table. No objection from you or any other Socialist faction has come to us. I would like to emphasize once again for the transcripts that came to me by the other two national MPs, I would not like to call the names, because the amendments registered under the Budget Code by October 1st didn't enter for technical reasons into the comparative table that were worked out. I'm announcing the decision of the Budget Committee: that we're passing on to the government all the proposals that came to the Budget Committee by October 1st, including these. So that's why this problem is also taking off. And the last. I would like to refer to the distinguished representatives of the Communist Party faction, stressing once again that all the amendments to the Committee on Budgets have entered into a comparative table. And now you're voting not for the government, not for the adoption of the government budget in the first reading, but for your amendments. This is a public political position. And only this position will allow us to demonstrate that government when it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u97	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u98	when he makes public populist promises that there are no real economic grounds. And we're voting on the first reading procedure -- it means accepting your proposals, honourable national MPs. So let's not look like an un-officer's widow when you're criticizing this document now, you're criticizing your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! One minute! No, it was just a matter of motive, dear fellows! One minute! Give me a chance to say it! Please sit down, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u100	I called! The group of writers in the presentation entered the transcript, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u101	Please sit down, Peter Alexiovich! Dear colleagues, I can predict today that the final words, and you may agree with me -- pay attention! Peter Alexiovich! Everyone, please! - that these last words that Peter Prashenko said today will be spoken on all channels. Because the point is that after the Supreme Council had considered the presentation of the budget, it had not expressed a negative attitude or made a decision on the return of the budget. She took it to the production, that is, to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now the MPs have done their bidding, and there are almost 3,000 of them, and we are voting for our proposals, one minute, we are voting for our proposals. In fact, the Supreme Council's case is making a new budget, and the government's case is going to agree with it or not, when he returns his vision to us, then we're going to look at where we're close, where we're not close. So in this case, the honourable colleagues, there's no way, you read the budget code, you don't anticipate re-reading. It says it should be accepted to the 20th, and it's about the amendments to the national MPs, that is, the MPs vote for what they've done. Or a miswritten budget code, so, well, logically, think about it, honourable colleagues, there's a question: or we didn't have to look at it for three hours today, exactly two hours. So, dear fellows, I'd like you to think about the wording. One minute now we're, well, then we're going to put, I'm going to ask you, two orders. So I'm going to be the first to vote we have 2 decrees, I'm going to make one determination, I'm going to give it to you, well, what you're worried about. Introducing the budget committee, I ask your attention, he suggests that the budget committee approve the conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act 2005 of Ukraine. That's my vote. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote, please vote [[12:52:18]] For 175 The factions? Please, by the factions: Our Ukraine - 100, Ukraine - 0, Communist - 4, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National agrarian - 20, SPI - 2, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 0, only Ukraine - 0, Center - 15, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 4, Democratic initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 11. Please have an alternative project. Just a minute. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! If a government draft budget were to be put to the vote now, I would be the first to call for a vote against it. Because with the increase in the total budget income of 34 percent to raise the salaries of doctors, teachers in the government found 10.5%. That's why they turned out to be deluded pensioners, because after the election, no funds were put into the budget to raise salaries and pensions. But, dear friends, I would like to emphasise what you are now being asked to vote on. The government project has a minimum wage of 262 bracelets. Our offer is a minimum wage of 300 dollars. In the government project, the salaries in the budget area rise by 10.5 percent, our project raises the salaries in the budget area by 35 percent. The government project does not have the funds to pay the pensioners, our project provides for the cost of supplementary payments to pensioners next year. In the government project, at least 382 dollars of living is approved, and that's in our offer, 432 dollars. The government project does not implement article 57 of the Education Act in its entirety, our project implements this law in its entirety and provides for repayment of the debt under this article. In the government project, 6 billion dollars of mutual interest to pay off lost deposits, our project is targeting $6.5 billion of dollars to pay off exclusively in the form of lost deposits. That is the position we ask to support our respected colleagues. The draft decision, prepared by Yushchenko and I, including the author, provides for approval of the conclusions. The other one. I want the government to prepare for the second reading of the bill, with six key points, I've reminded them, it's a minimum wage of 300 dollars, a salary increase of 35 percent, taking into account the need to pay pensions to pensioners, a minimum of 432 dollars, the introduction of Article 57 of the Education Act and the return of $6.5 billion in cash as an economist, and I want to tell you that this is within the budget's revenue increase. For example, an increase of 35 percent in wages requires 15 billion dollars, an increase in the budget's revenue of 28 billion dollars, and given the profit tax of citizens, that's less than half. So there are economic opportunities for these decisions. We're essentially making a quality new budget document. So I ask my fellow Members, first of all, to address the faction of the Communists, to support this position, not the government's project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I have nothing but compromise. I will put to the vote an alternative project that will be implemented, registered and distributed to you. Project number 6000/P3, which Victor Pinzenik just published. I'm putting this document to a vote. Please vote. [[12:56:35]] For 185 Let's make other proposals. What other suggestions do you have to take into account to vote, please? The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 97, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 15, NDP and PPU - 3, “Deminiciatives” and “The People’s Government” - 0, “Afterfaction - 11. Yes, I'm putting it to a vote, although the budget is not budgeted, aimed at re-reading the first reading to the second, to the second, to be faithful, not to the second, to the third of November. Let's do it again. Please vote. [[12:57:32]] For 122 Let us seek understanding, fellow believers. We are expected to do so without making any decisions. Please write it down for reasons. Five minutes. Sign up, sign up. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u104	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, let's spread this node now, stretch it, there's still a possibility. Think for a few minutes about what's going on. We've almost unanimously all rejected this bloated gap that we've thought about in the budget. Instead, we, all those in this room who have found a common language, offer the Ukrainian people a national budget. Well, why, I'm talking to the communists, so what doesn't get you into the last one, even the last one: Raise minimum wage, expand 57th article on teachers. Well, you see, there's nothing smarter in Parliament right now, and there's nothing more constructive. It seems that the Communists act as if there are secret arrangements. Come on, I'm just calling on you all, we're going to vote for this version, and we're going to prove once again that Parliament is, that Parliament is working, that Parliament today is characterizing the collective intelligence of the Ukrainian people, not games.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u105	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's very embarrassing to talk about what happened to us right now. We understand that whether this draft budget was voted or not, it would still not work, there are a lot of issues that the government would not accept. Still, many suggestions were accepted and the budget committee should be thanked. I also want to highlight one problem that the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as today's budget committee, did not bring the issue of financing the railway sector. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes to allocate 120 million dollars from the State Budget only for state support. In this case, changes in the funding of health facilities are provided for medical care of only railway workers. Some one million people will be excluded from medical care. For example, in my hospital only after Conotap, 26,000 people will be expelled. Which are not transporters, which will lead to the stated prevention of medical facilities, to the reduction of workers. I'm addressing the Supreme Council today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u107	Rudzkowski instead of Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u108	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In such a tight budget that the government has put forward, we cannot accept in either first or in any of the readings. We have a way out. Or it can be fully worked out in the Budget Committee and voted in a form that satisfies us, that it becomes social, that again everything in the Constitution and free education and free medicine, and ultimately social guarantees. You can't vote in such a way. You can ask a question about the vote and send it back to the government. Otherwise such a bill cannot be voted on. There's a compromise proposal -- we need to convince our Communist colleagues to re-read it. And in a week, we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u109	Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the Communists have figured it out. And your doubt that health care is underfunded can be corrected in a second reading by redistributing budget funding from certain areas, such as medicine. For example, taking away much of the financing of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which deserves to be done today, and turning it over to health care. So I urge you, but this is the wisest thing to do today to vote in favour of the budget conclusions proposed by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u111	Yes, Ludmila Suprun, please, the NDP faction. Please. Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, what we are now passing on to the table after first reading to the Cabinet of Ministers will certainly be discussed in detail in the Cabinet. And Minfin will draw conclusions as to what proposals the MPs can be taken into account and balanced, which will have to be rejected for different reasons: perhaps because of lack of funding, perhaps because legislative mechanisms will not be improved yet. But you have to give the government the right to continue to work on the budget. And it is the Cabinet of Ministers, preparing for the second reading of the law, that will express its position on all amendments. So from a technological point of view, we have to give up the budget and then not block the budget, but reverse the budget process, because the next word behind the government. And we all have to understand that. I propose to vote and to refer to the government in the form in which the budget committee voted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u113	Yes, dear colleagues, we exchanged our thoughts again. Let's see if you can make that offer, please! We had two draft rulings -- one proposed by a group of national deputies, one budget committee. Let's put them together and vote together for the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee, taking these supplements into account. Is there no objection? Well, I beg your attention, dear fellows! I'll put it to a vote with the combination of these proposals, both of them. Let's vote on some of the other things that have now been said about increasing individual rates, I'm going to say, raising minimum wage, increasing salaries, taking into account pension costs to retirees, setting a living minimum of 423, we've already voted, putting into full effect article 57 on education, paying off debt at a cost of 6.5 billion dollars. I mean, these proposals add to the conclusions, and the committee's proposals, and accept them in a single package. Do you understand the offer? For reasons, please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! I think we all know what's going on. First of all, who adopted the draft State Budget Act 2005 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Did the Communist faction accept him? No, it's not. We did not vote because he was immediately examined by specialists, and it was evident that he was antisocial and antinational. That's the first one. The second is now proposed by, among other things, the Committee of Budgets and the faction of "Our Ukraine"? In order to support the conclusions, the conclusions of the budget committee with proposals from the National Deputies confirmed that we are voting for this antisocial, anti-national budget in the first reading. The Communist faction won't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u115	Yes. Dear colleagues, I don't think we need it anymore. Now we're going to have a discussion. I mean. Please, calm down. All right, dear fellows, let's do this. Dear colleagues, the point is that we are here, in fact, perhaps we do have an unmarked position in the Codex Budget. The Budget Code provides that the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee, or National Deputies, form the basis for the adoption of the budget in the first reading. But in fact, with three thousand amendments, we are voting entirely for a new budget, which includes all the amendments, including amendments to the Communist faction. And these amendments were only 2,800, and they are. We are now voting for the amendments, not the budget. I understand the principle of position, and I must congratulate her on the fact that the Communist faction did not support the presentation of the budget. But now we're voting for a qualitatively different document, honourable colleagues. Well, one minute! That's the position. And it is not foreshadowed, fellow believers, nor is it for the budget code for re-reading the first reading. It says, I'm reading, "The Supreme Council adopts the draft State Budget Act on the first reading no later than October 20." That's it. And we can't send for rereading. And it consists of, let's take the political moment that the Supreme Council today has become the main brake in Ukraine's economic development. But then there'll be a second reading, and we'll have the opportunity to say that the proposals of the Supreme Council aren't taken into account, and then demonstrate and demonstrate their principles. That's the problem, dear fellows. This is not as much about the economic component of this document as it is about the political process. Judging from the placement of seats in the hall, the presence of people who do not need this budget in order to accuse the Supreme Council of being the Supreme Council. They set up and show, on television today, that it's a coincidence of worlds and ignorances who don't understand anything. Today, we need to work together, balance and make a decision that will save Parliament, parliamentaryism and at the same time allow the government to work. They say the government can't work - the Supreme Council has blocked everything. Perhaps we were shortsighted when we accepted the budget for consideration. That's the position. Out of procedure, please, Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished Valentin Grigorovich, because I would like to take the floor because the procedure for adopting the budget is governed not by the Supreme Council Rules, but by the Budget Code. And under the Budget Code, really, we can only make two decisions: or we can approve the draft decision that was proposed to you, and really, Vladimir Mikhailovich is absolutely right that we are voting exclusively on our amendments, we are not giving an assessment of the State Budget to the government. No vote, Reverend Valentin Grigorovich, government project. And "Our Ukraine," and the Communists voted for the rejection. That decision did not pass. But now we can get out, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, then we have to go to the vote on the amendments and every amendment then with the 2,800 votes separately and then I want to see what we're going to turn into in this way, because we can't really believe.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u117	Thank you, Boris Illrich Oilynik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u118	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and could you ask such a question to vote for the amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u119	So we vote in favour of the amendments, Boris Illich, we vote in favour of the amendments. I'll do it. Dear colleagues, come on, calm down, let's all drop your hands. Dear colleagues, I would like to say once again that Valentin Grigorovich is right that the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee, he now wants to say this -- this is the first reading, but, dear fellows, on the left, this is a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, on the right -- this is an option that is proposed by the Supreme Council, that is, in fact, that on the first reading, the Supreme Council is proposing a qualitatively new bill that I believe with 3,000 amendments is completely different from this bill. I can put it this way if there is no objection that we vote in favour of the amendments and thus for the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets. Valentin Yegorovich Matviev, please. Well, calm down, we need to understand now. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once again by quoting Article 41 of the Code of Budget, by making decisions on conclusions and proposals to the draft law on the state budget of Ukraine. It is considered that the draft law, the draft law introduced by this Government on Ukraine’s State Budget in the first reading, is being adopted. That's what this is about. The point is that by this vote, Mr. Poshenko, the budget committee wants us to be misled into supporting the draft State Budget Act 2005 in the first reading. We can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! I want one more moment. Let's get this straight. We are now reading 41 articles. We need to take and read the entire budget code and the order for the budget to be considered and adopted. There are such powers and possibilities that the government uses its resources solely to submit to the Supreme Council, taking into account the Budget Resolution, or not taking into account. The government, by the way, gave us the draft budget, only partly taking into account, and this was the subject of the budget submission, the Budget Resolution. The first reading of the Ukrainian Parliament has the right to present its version. And today Parliament is putting out its version, and this is by adopting the budget in the first reading. After that, the government considers, goes on to the Budget Code, looks at the budget. He can take into account or disregard the Supreme Council’s proposals, bring them in the original form, and thus submit his project to the second reading. And it's up to the Supreme Council to agree or disagree. Now we're talking about the choice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine's first reading option is the ability of deputies to influence the budget code, that's what this is about. Come on, take five more minutes off the procedure, please. Warming up, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u122	Boris Zagreva, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Ukrainian People's Party. I'd like a word with Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u123	Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I just want to emphasize the very important differences between the budget and any other law. We do not vote in the first amendment, since the budget adoption procedure is governed by the Code of Budgets. And this is the only law that we're voting with the laws of the Ukrainian national deputies on the first reading. That's why I'm calling once more on our fellow Communists. A good suggestion was made by Vladimir Mikhailovich to unite the two draft decrees and to take into account the amendment made by Boris Illich Olijnik that we are voting for the conclusions of the budget committee with those social parameters that we have heard from the rostrums. And a request for colleagues to support our 2005 budget version.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u125	Please, Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u126	Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u127	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u128	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am addressing all those present in the hall and the people who are now concerned with the adoption of this document. Who have the illusions of how the government will proceed with the conclusions of the budget committee? We understand what will happen to them. But I want to make one suggestion that might help us get out of this situation somehow. What are we talking about? The point is that 3,000 amendments to the State Budget project is a quality feature of this document, which means that the absolute majority of people don't accept this document. I'm making an offer. I don't know how much it's going to be related to the budget code, but it's going to be a decision to recommend to the government, given the huge number of amendments made by the people's deputies, to call off this version of the State Budget project. This, I think, would be the way out of this situation that there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have written out the Budget Code so that only when we present the budget can we offer the government an opportunity to call it off, and unfortunately we don't have it. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u130	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Nikolayenko Our faction has carefully considered the draft budget for 2005 in two sessions, and we have decided not to vote in favour of it in the government's choice. But in view of what happened, we did not vote on the committee that proposed it. But given that a whole series of concrete decisions were made, let's say an increase in the supply of a living minimum of 423 dollars, a return of 6 billion dollars in cash, that means 1,300 dollars for each. And the increase in the budget area against government, they're offering 10 percent, this is 35, that is, at the same time. The faction has changed its point of view and suggests that it support these conclusions. I would now suggest to our colleagues, let's say the Communists, Adam Ivanovich, a distinguished and highly respected faction, that they hold a meeting, and maybe all the leaders of the faction, let's consult and then vote. I think you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u131	Thank you. Oleg Belarus, please. I'm on the list, dear colleagues. I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u132	Please pass the word to the deputy of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u133	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u134	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. I would like to point out that, first of all, when Mr. Olijnik was warned about voting on the budget committee's proposals. In fact, this is proposed by a decree of the Supreme Council, introduced by Pinzenik, Teryochinim, and Yushchenko. So it's pretty clear in principle. I want to read even a paragraph. “Considering such proposals made by the budgetary committee, the conclusions of the Supreme Council, which are an integral part.” So these are the conclusions of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council does not take responsibility for the budget. We don't take responsibility for that empty government budget that's blown up like a ball. You know, we're making our bids on this budget, those proposals that I'm sure every national MP would be willing to sign off on. We increase, we raise the minimum wage, the office salary, the needs, and so on, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u135	City boy, please. Dear colleagues, I'm on record with who signed up. Now I'm going to propose a proposal that will bring you all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u136	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished deputies. Since the content of the amendments, which essentially make up the new Codex of Budget, does not differ from that of the Codex Codex, and the virtually new budget does not differ from that of the representatives of the left and right camps. I would suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the leaders of those factions present in the Supreme Council, that ten minutes be now in your office to formulate the position for which those present in this room would agree to vote. That would be a normal compromise. Not to vote is the position of those who are not in the room today. You understand that perfectly. Let's move our vote and vote, and the conscience of Parliament to the House of Parliament, so that the Banking doesn't run our Ukraine, or the Communists. Deal with yourself, find 10 minutes for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Listen to me, please. One minute, which will be an offer, Stanislaw Mikolayovich. There's nothing we can do here as we gather. That's a proposition. Please listen carefully. This will be the vote. I think you should support him. The amendments that make up the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee, for all the amendments, I stress without exception, put to the vote these amendments and refer them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for further consideration in accordance with the Budget Code. [[Boris Ilchi proposed]] That's it. Stanislaw Nikolayenko, there will be a proposal to vote now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I support what you say. It's really a rational grain. But here it is, let's face it, let's say that we can hold off on, let's say, individual colleagues of our friends. Let's not just keep three deputies in the press, but let's write down all the faction leaders who are voting today. And then the problem will be that our Ukraine won or lost socialists there or the communists. Then it'll be all right. Here are all five faction leaders, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I think we can share the glory later. Please, Oleg Belarus and that's it. Please. And Karnauh, he's been stretching his hand for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I support, I support, in principle, your proposal last, but I would like to propose even shorter formulations of the decision, from two points: firstly, to accept the proposals of the National Deputies, as presented by the Budget Committee, all without exception, and secondly to pass on this draft budget to the Cabinet of Ministers for finalizing it for re-reading, for re-reading, for re-reading. [[Quiet, please!]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, there is no budget for re-reading. Please, Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! There have been many difficult moments in the work of the Supreme Council, I know from experience. I think it would be useful today to gather the leaders of all the MP groups and factions and prepare a new draft decision. Not only are the authors of the group leaders involved, but they also take into account proposals made by Communists that may not have been taken into account. Thus, we will find an opportunity to vote on conclusions and recommendations today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u143	Dear fellows, once again, I would like to say, dear fellows, may I have your attention, please? I want to say again, Igor Rafailovich, well enough, dear colleagues. I want to say again, one more minute, dear fellows! Listen, literally. I'm going to try to rephrase the neutral draft of the ruling, the neutral draft of the ruling that was proposed. First, to approve all the amendments made by factions, parliamentary groups, national deputies, the committees of the Supreme Council and draw conclusions and proposals from the budgetary committee, I emphasise, everyone. The other one. To correct the conclusions and proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers for further development in the established time frame and to submit to the Supreme Council for further consideration in accordance with the Budget Code. Please tell me that's not what you're saying? Well, well, well. Please don't scream. We need to find a consensus, an understanding. Well. There won't be any more. Please. Well, let's vote in favour of these proposals, I repeat: the first item: to approve all the amendments made to the 2005 Draft State Budget by factions and parliamentary groups, by the National Deputies, by the Committees of the Supreme Council, and to draw conclusions and proposals from the budgetary committee; the second, to send conclusions and proposals to the Budget Committee to the Cabinet of Ministers with the aim of developing them together with the Budget Committee and submitting them to the Supreme Council in accordance with the Budget Code for further consideration by the Supreme Council in accordance with the Budget Code. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. [[13:25:36]] For-189 Well, what's with the factions? And that's how it's made sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make another suggestion: Although it's not included in the Budget Code. for the rereading of the first reading. Dear colleagues, it's no good anymore. I came out of proposals within the framework of the Budget Code. There are no other suggestions, dear colleagues. I'm voting for the re-first reading by the third of November this year, with a review of November 3rd in the session room. Please vote. [[13:26:19]] For 208 Let's make a decision. I think more clearly: to entrust the budget committee, along with the authors of the amendments and proposals to the budget and the government, to finalize the project and submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 November this year. There can be no other positions, let's vote! The third is a discussion in the session hall. Please vote. Well, that's what it was said, dear fellows! [[13:27:09]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to look at a few documents that relate to ratification. Please do this to us. May I have your attention, please? I'm going to put in documents that don't call into question. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Mexican United States is being announced for consideration. All the documents necessary for this matter are. There are no warnings about this document? None. That is why I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Mexican United States. Please vote. [[13:28:19]] For 237 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Panama on maritime shipping is being announced for consideration. The documents were considered on the profile committee and other committees, there are no warnings, recommending acceptance of this document by the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? I am voting on the committee's proposal to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Panama on maritime shipping. Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[13:29:15]] For 242 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Black Sea Landscapes to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea from Pollution is under consideration, and all conclusions are positive. Is there a warning? Eugene Kirilchuk, please microphone. And Stepan the Cloud, I'm sorry. Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u144	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we should rush into ratifying this protocol. I'd like to remind you of the problems that we have today since the restoration of the Danube canal, and the protocol is being extended to the coastal areas, including the coast, the customers, the swamp and so on. That's why we can face certain problems and then we'll be exposed to claims by reference to this protocol, so I'm asking you to postpone ratification today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u145	From the committee, please. From the Committee, Yuri Solomatine. Dear colleagues, it's quite another field, and I would ask that we don't connect here, that we don't connect. Please read all the documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the issues we are discussing with you now are very important because the Black Sea ecosystem is in a dangerous state. The high vulnerability of the Black Sea ecosystem is largely due to the relatively low natural biodiversity of the fauna compared to the Mediterranean Sea, in almost three times the unique characteristics of the Black Sea alone. Eutrophication, pollution, uncontrolled fishing have resulted in total depletion of biological resources, disruption of variety of species and landscapes, and destruction of the recreational value of the Black Sea. Many species of fish have lost their industrial value and now exist in the Black Sea only as species. Ukraine has virtually lost a unique group of algae, such as polished, detrusive, where agarid algae have traditionally been mined for many years, providing this raw material with medical, food, and air - conditioned industries. Recently, conditions have been created to play the ecosystem, but this does not mean that problems have disappeared or do not exist. With increased anthropogenic pressure, the Black Sea ecosystem may once again be at the brink of an ecological catastrophe. Only by means of joint efforts by all the Black Sea States can the situation be stabilized and eventually improved. The important thing is that the protocol is also distributed to the Azov Sea, which became a major victory for Ukraine when it was signed. In this sense, the protocol under consideration aims to bring together efforts aimed at halting degradation and balancing the use of biological resources, protecting human health, and preserving biodiversity and landscape diversity in the Black Sea. The implementation of the Protocol provides for the national and international implementation of appropriate measures to preserve the natural and cultural acquisitions of the Black Sea countries. The ratification of the protocol does not provide for additional contributions other than those to be paid by Ukraine to the Black Sea Convention. That's why our profile committee is calling on you, your honorary colleagues, to support the adoption of the Protocol on the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Landscapes of the Black Sea to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea from Pollution, as well as the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! Let's see. This is a document that has no political burden. We have to take him. So let's do it. There will be no one to vote now. That's not gonna happen to anyone. Please, you've spoken, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u148	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I have a very heavy taste after that vote that was taken on the President's administration's agreement after the collapse of conclusions that they didn't want to make. Well, God, he's the judge of all those who haven't. In this regard, I call on those who now want to strain another situation. The time will come. Everything will be in place. There are 6 countries here: The Republic of Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania, the Russian Federation, Turkey and Ukraine have agreed to support the Black Sea ecosystem in good environmental condition and its landscapes in favourable conditions. Believe me, I live on the Black Sea in Odessa, I know a deal like this is necessary first. Secondly, it has no effect on what is now being spoken of by the distinguished Stepan Ilkovich. Stepan Ilkovich, you can sign it! And I agree with Mr. Solomatin here, because what is also being distributed on the Azov Sea as part of the Black Sea Basin is also extremely important for us to preserve biodiversity and landscapes, and coastal zones, which are defined by each contractual side. So you and I are defined by these zones. To us and to no one else! So I ask you to reject the political passions and vote on this signed protocol back in 2002 in Sofia and we don't ratify it for two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor, for your attention! May I have your attention, please? There will be a serious vote on the document. Focus, dear fellows! Vladimir Kirilov, let's vote! A serious document, on the other hand, is the vote. The proposal for a profile committee to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Black Sea Landscapes to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea from Pollution is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:36:54]] For - 155 The decision is not taken. Please let the committee work on the arguments. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -20; "Regions of Ukraine" -0; Communists -58; SDPU -0; "Prudent Ukraine" -0; National Agrarian -20; SPI -20; Block Timoshenko -17; "Soyuz" -0; "Only Ukraine" -0; "Centre" -14; NDP and industrialists and entrepreneurs -3; "Democratic Initiatives" -0; non-fractional -3. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank is being announced for consideration. Who will report from the committee? Now I'm going to read what the committee is talking about. The committee supports and requests ratification. The science-expert management also makes a proposal to ratify. The main scientific and expert management is also saying that the document can be ratified. Who has the objection? Well, please turn on the microphone. Well, go on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, I think you will support me in this. Leonid Chernovecki, "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party. It's that all the loans are being stolen today. If there was at least 10 percent left before there or 20, everything the World Bank would give would be stolen. If you've had a drink before, you'll have to put it in foreign accounts. And that's a hundred percent. The one who will vote for any loan from the World Bank until we can at least order the order in the country to manage those funds. This is a direct threat to the sovereignty of Ukraine and the people. Because for this, the Ministry of Statistics, which many retirees do not even know exists, will have to pay them out of their pocket. We better get back to the question, because Adam Ivanovich and I have been talking about how the VAT Communists support the withdrawal, so let us put it to a vote and eliminate the thief part of Ukraine's budget. Because it is not possible to steal 20 copies of each bracelet from the salary or pension of a pensioner or a worker or an employee. And the second. And all these loans, I'll tell you how they're handled there. Several officials from the Ministry of the World Financial Bank are arriving, with salaries of $30,000 a day. They're sitting here teaching our ministry how to cheat better with that stat. And the statistics are what I want to say separately, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and for that I went to the rostrum. I have been approached by a women's conference led by Sophia Shuhatan, to consider parliamentary hearings that our businesses are already issuing, in addition to vodka and other abominations, drugs. We have a methadone program in our country. Here are the 5,000 signatures of women who ask, please let the statistics tell us that we have the most addictive country. It's a nightmare. Please accept these signatures from me. And let's talk about this more quickly on the Supreme Council. Because methadone is synthetic drugs. It's to let everyone who listens to our Supreme Council and deputies know. It's almost the same drug as the morphine that causes addiction. And today it's spread all over Ukraine. Let's give him a screen. It's very important. And we'll forget about this World Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Victor Mironenko. I see, I see, respectable colleagues. Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u152	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! We are invited to take another loan abroad to monitor social economic change. That's terrible! It's immoral! 12.6 billion. dollars! The State of Ukraine is poor. Where did they go? Got it. Let's go! All these oligarchic Governments, which have been doing this to us since 1991, are all of us, without exception, underlining those who are now pushing their candidates into the Presidents. They're breaking up, and now they're pointing fingers at each other. One says it was bad in 2000 and the other says it's bad now. And then, and now, it's bad! In addition to stealing, let us consider something else. In Belarus, respected compatriots take nothing, no loans, no debts. However, the modernization of production is ensured by 70 per cent of the production of radio-electronics and other indeed industries, 70 per cent of the leading industries are in line with world standards, and Russia is overrun by, let alone, poor Ukraine, many of the indicators, including the material security of the population! These are United Nations data. Belarus has a socialist agenda, that is, we need to take the path of socialism from this capitalism, in which the oligarchist gangs are now trying to keep us going. And, notice, there's another example. It's on export. On export, take it, we keep hearing: Russia, Ukraine is fighting for something, for investment, there is no investment. There are investments in Belarus. The same German capital is there, there are other arrangements. Their exports are much higher in machine construction and so on, they exceed both Russian and Ukrainian. That's probably what we need to take into account. That is why I would call on the people of Ukraine to finally make the right conclusion: that is, we will not change anything. Now we're adopting the State Budget Act, there's so much noise, so much screaming! And our Ukraine and other factions, and the Fatherland, the so-called Patriots, who destroyed our country in a capitalist way, have called for a vote in favour of Gosbudget. It is understandable, however, that in the year 2000 the Government of Yushchenko did not comply with the law, the corresponding interests of veterans, disabled persons, Chernobyls, teachers, doctors, that is, Janukovich will not comply with the Government. That is, the oligarchic criminal government must be removed from power, and it does not matter who it is, the oligarchs, Yushchenko or Yanukovic. It's not about the case, it's about the political agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u153	Yuri Karmazin, please
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u154	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! You and I will very quickly understand the consequences of violent non-voting for the proposals of the national MPs -- 3,000 proposals have been thrown out, in fact, into the basket that has now taken place, and we will see it. In particular, we see it in this agreement. This agreement, where the main beneficiaries of the project are the State Committee on Statistics, is the chief executive who shows that things are going very well in the country right now, and the price of meat has risen by a few percent, and in fact, has doubled. Double! Where's the statistics? Kuchmostatistics is much cooler than the statistics of a former communist who thought there was no famine. That's why I think, honourable national deputies, that this project will, of course, have to be rejected, because it's absolutely unconvincing what our committee wrote to us about finance and banking, where they wrote that would make the system of state statistics more efficient. If there's no will, if there's no intelligence, there's no statistics all the time. If 50 percent, according to Kuchma, is in the shadow of a gross domestic product, what statistics?Oh, my God! We need to run statistics then! And let the people say whether there are statistics or not. And how will the people say, if these things are happening, that the people are being raped. So, honourable people's deputies, I absolutely see that today we have a reason to see what the National Bank has done about what is national acquisition, the National Reserve Fund -- everyone. See what happens: In recent months, the National Bank has thrown new bills into circulation, unsecured. Money is being printed without permission from the Supreme Council. First. Second, for a billion dollars, Mr. Tihypco and his satellites were thrown into the market. This is despite the fact that shadow money is involved in the elections. And we didn't even create a commission of inquiry. The Committee on Finance and Banking is also silent. And in the end, we have the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority to tell us what the dangers are. And when it says that ratification will have a positive impact on the development of national statistics, I want to say that the performers have to understand that they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u155	The last speaker is Yuri Solomatin. And then we'll take it from motive. Time is running out, motivated by respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a small trailer for the speech of a previous colleague who complained that the Supreme Council, at 13 hours 26 minutes in a vote, had not accepted the proposal for a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2005, which envisaged the approval of more than three thousand comments and proposals by the Ukrainian National Deputies and the referral of them to the Cabinet of Ministers for work. We only got 208 votes, the communists voted 56 out of 59, our Ukraine out of 100-31 didn't vote. Dear Ukrainians, who are you yelling at here? It was your hands that failed yours and our proposals that you and the bank seemed to have arranged for this draft budget not to be accepted. And on the issue that is currently being discussed, about lending to the development of a system of state statistics for monitoring socio-economic transformations. We've already borrowed so much, and these transformations are so clear where they're going. I'm going to give you a very simple statistic: if we're officially in 2002, in 2002, there were 250 million government officials, according to her information. In 2003, it became 853, and it's projected for 2004 that there will be 2,500 of these millionaires from all over the world -- 300 are sitting here on the top council and teasing people's heads, especially the centrists and our Ukrainians. Don't fool anyone's head. And your race among themselves will not bring any good; the people of Ukraine will vote all things equally for the faithful son of Peter Simon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u157	Mikola Rudzkowski, please. Dear colleagues, I, come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u158	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in Ukraine all citizens of Ukraine have already come to realize that the loans of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund do not help the economy of Ukraine, but only allow officials to be parasites on the cheap loans they determine for their own benefit. That is why we, the socialists, have not voted or voted in favour of loans, both from the International Monetary Fund and from the World Bank, because they do not help Ukraine to make structural changes, nor do they help objective statistics. Can we talk about the objectivity of statistics when we have economic growth in the last four years? Ukrainian citizens, most of them, are experiencing a deterioration in their standard of living. Can statistics be said to increase the standard of living of citizens? During the past four years, food has been more expensive than the dollar in the world’s markets. Objectively, Ukrainian citizens can buy less each year, each year, as statistics show in the village that the situation is improving, each year the sown areas are shrinking, the yield is declining, only the natural factors are affecting in some way. And that's why we're talking about it. It's ridiculous that we're going to spend money, and statistics are going to be objective. We need to start from the beginning: provide objective data for all of Ukraine. A shocking fact, perhaps a bit of a shift away, is that the system of power, even without World Bank loans, is parasitic. Exciting example. Yesterday I received a letter saying that the Montenegrin district chief of the Sidorenko District Administration was, while the kindergartens were still not burned, the schools were not burned down, the Jeep was buying 40,000 public funds to make him feel comfortable, as it were, driving during the election campaign, forcing him to falsify the election. I am convinced that such bills do not have to be wasted time; they must be immediately removed from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u159	With the motives of Shibko and Mishur, we will vote. No, you just did. These are the people who have not been able to speak. Please, Vitaly Shibko, microphone, and then Valery Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u160	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction, Dniproperty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u161	We continue our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, there is no discussion of this issue today from the Cabinet of Ministers or from the relevant Ministry. So all of this shows that Kabmin or the Ministry of Justice, who is responsible for this bill, is not interested in this. And that's why I don't understand what we're supposed to be looking at right now, that's the first thing. The other one. I would like to say that we have to accept some principled things -- whether we are cooperating with appropriate structures that are named or not. And if Osaulenko were, he would probably have said that today this treaty that we're proposing is somewhat different from those that were before, because I was interested in it. There's a certain redistribution. 11 percent go to staff service, and the rest goes to the purchase of appropriate equipment. Then you might think about it if we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u163	Valery Mishur, please microphone, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u164	Valerius Mishur, Communist faction of Peter Simonek I'd like to ask questions before deciding how to vote, but I don't see who to ask, so I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So I don't know what the international bank is -- whether it's the World Bank or some international bank -- I don't know who has it to be. Yeah, who would say if it was some kind of mistake or something. What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u165	This is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please. Oh, you've got everything, haven't you? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee, a proposal by the President of Ukraine to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration No. 0218. Please vote. [[13:56:12]] For-23 The bill was rejected. Well, of course it's factions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a few drafts here and take a brief look at the procedure. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities is being announced for consideration. [[concerning prosecutorial supervision]] We have two projects: the People's Deputy Vernidubov and Pecklusenko. There are appropriate conclusions on this point from the committees. Is there a need to speak from the committee? None. Then we have every reason to put it to the vote. Please, Karmazin. Turn on Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u166	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, the Verni Dubov bill proposes to include in the board of officials of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office, who have the right to supervise compliance with the laws in the conduct of the search and search, the authorized heads of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office and their deputies, as well as the city, district and related prosecutors. It is also envisaged that the authorization to extend the duration of the search and search activities and to challenge illegal court decisions on the permission or refusal to carry out search and search for the exclusive competence of officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutors of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Prosecutors of the districts, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol will be granted. I'm in favour of such an offer, but I want to tell you that there are now violent violations of these laws, the Law on Operational Investigation, the fight against organized crime and corruption. And we can especially see this in the example of the Security Service Act, the militia laws. And now we've seen a decision in Crimea to release the Chief of Public Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crime completely illegal, without the consent of the Supreme Council Committee on Organised Crime and Corruption. We're seeing now how the special units of the militia, the special units of the Security Service are using these organs, the secret organs, and the mechanism that we've given for state funding exclusively for political purposes. The last example I saw yesterday was an Internet photograph of our colleague, Mr. Volkov, a service car where he, who had already arrived yesterday, drove to the airport, and arrived here Victor Yashchenk. They came and gave pictures, and so on. I address you, Mr. Head, and I address Mr. Stretovich, Moses, Vasiliev, Smile. Let us wake up the prosecutor’s office, and it will begin to carry out its duties in order to oversee the implementation of these legislative acts. And in the first reading, I propose to accept these changes. But we need to establish public control of what's going on today, what the search and rescue units are doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u167	Let's vote. What's three? Then the third, and we're looking at two. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first draft of the Law, registration number 2456, amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities on Procuratorial Care for Acceptance as a Basis. Please vote. [[14:00:48]] For-97 The bill was rejected. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of draft law, registration number 3548, to amend the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search and Investigation for Prosecutorial Oversight. Please vote. [[14:01:18]] For-96 The bill was rejected. Three more, your honors, from this series. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on operational and search activities. Registration 3049. George Manchulenko, please. Please, very briefly. Yes, please, there's no report, there's all documents. Who from the committee insists on speaking? Oh, no? Manchulenko, national deputy, insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u168	203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Dear Head, dear colleagues! In particular, the bill provides for the removal of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense's Directorate-General of Intelligence to carry out search-and-research measures with the application of operational and technical means. It's the 3049 registration bill. The intelligence activities of the Directorate-General for Mine Defence Intelligence are carried out on the basis of article nine of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act exclusively in the interests of ensuring the security of its own forces, information tools, unlawful actions and threats. The task of the search-and-research operation, including the use of operational and technical means, is to document the intelligence activities of foreign intelligence services, organizations and individuals, as well as the unlawful actions of the colleagues of the Directorate-General for Mine Defense Intelligence in order to end the offence and in the interests of criminal justice. According to the well-known legal and regulatory documents agreed with the Henprosecutors, the implementation of the operational and technical measures is not intended only for objects of the Department of Defense's Department of Operations and Technology. The order allows for limiting the circle of persons familiar with the development objects that are in line with the basic principle of operational work — conspiracy. In addition, there is no need for court-sanctioned operational and technical measures in service facilities and service lines, which allows time to be cut short and prevent crime. Operations and counter-intelligence operations outside the Department of Mine Defense Intelligence are currently being organized and carried out jointly with the Security Service units on the basis of instructions on the order in which the units of the Security Service and the Directorate-General of Mine Defense Intelligence are interacting. Taking into account what has been taught and in line with the provisions of article 5. 9 The Ukrainian Intelligence Act, article 5 of the Ukrainian Act "On Operational Search Activities", article 5 of the Ukrainian Act "On Counterintelligence Activities, I consider it appropriate to reject the draft law introduced under article 3049 of 4 March 2003 on the above grounds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have listened to two thoughts. The first thought is to take the committee as a basis. The National MP suggests that this project be rejected. Please, Yuri Carmazin, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u170	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! This bill proposes to amend the law and narrow down the use of special technical tools -- listening, viewing and so on. This is the one, Vladimir Mikhailovich, installed today in the service offices of the National Deputies. And the service that does all of this is on Bank Street across from 6/8, and that's where all the information is being downloaded. I'm not a lot of secrets, but I'm just saying that people are a little bit off. Now they want to expand their state of operations and technical units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Air Force, and on the other hand, to destroy the same services in the Border Guards, the State Security Department, the Tax Police, the Department of Execution, where there are also operational units for operational search and rescue activities, and there is a plan to remove them from the structure of operational and technical units as unnecessary. I would call this bill purely lobbyist in order to lobby the Security Service's interests and, in this case, the IMF, and to monopolize these things by itself, i.e. to carry out search-and-research operations with special technical means. And the question is to guide them in order, including those law enforcement agencies that we've just talked about. That's why I think National Deputy Manchulenko Georgiy Manuilovich said very well when he opposed this bill. And I'm surprised how the committee that's supposed to be on the watch for the people's rights to control why this is happening in the state today, and I'm stressing that after I published the IMF data on the special unit, they didn't stop dealing with organized crime groups, but they keep doing it. This is therefore already a threat to national security. Let's do something. I am addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Minister of Interior and Igor Smeshko. Let's do something about it. And after yesterday's statement by Jeliaszkiewicz, where he said there was a discussion of the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-20-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, let's stop this discussion. And I'm asking a question for a vote. It is up to the vote to propose a committee on adoption based on the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on operational and search activities, registration number 3049. The committee has accepted, and there are all signatures on this subject. [[14:08:11]] Z-71 The bill was rejected. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since the 15th hour of committee meetings. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Thanks for the job.
