ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:01:27]] Registered -354 There were 354 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, please announce at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council a report on the transformation of the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party into a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Agrarian Party. In accordance with articles 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the Ukrainian Agrarian Party's parliamentary faction reports that on the basis of the decision of the Agrarian Party's Sixth Assembly to change the name of the party, a decision has been taken to turn the faction of Ukraine's Agrarian Party into a faction of Ukraine's People's Agrarian Party. The full name of the faction is the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. The faction is authorized to represent the national deputies of Ukraine - Glady Mikhail Vasilovich, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, Jeremeyev Igor Miranovic, Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, Martinovsky Valerij Pavlovich, Rishnjak Ivan Mikolaiovich and Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. [[Faction Manager]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I will inform Ukraine's National Deputies of the exit of Boyk Viktor Alexiyovich, Hirschfeld Anatolia Musiyovich, Kasianova Sergija Pavlovich, Kosinova Stanislava Anatoliyovich, Savic Valentina Viktorovich of the deputy group "Centr" and their membership in the National Agrarian Party. [[Applause]] I rightly point out to the representatives of the "Centre" MPs that for two weeks you have to address issues related to the number of your MPs. Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bad Igor Ivanovich, into the Democratic Initiatives Group. People's power." Dear colleagues, we need to resolve the issue of making an oath. On June 9, 2004, the Central Election Commission registered with the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dzona Valentin Mihajlovich, elected on March 31, 2002, in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the election bloc of political parties "For the One Ukraine!" In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. I invite you to the rostrum for the oath of the Ukrainian National Deputy Valentin Mikhailovich Dzonia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Let's welcome Valentin Mikhailovich today, and wish him fruitful activity. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The two factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine insist on a break of 30 minutes. Maybe I'm talking to the faction leaders. Maybe you can make a statement about what you wanted to take a break from, and then we can continue our work? Then who will speak from? Well, wait, well, maybe they'll make a statement, and then we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u4	Deputies! The Socialist Party faction prepared a statement about what happened to the Crookstagstal combination. You all know that in November of last year, the Supreme Council passed a law regarding the proposal of the Special Privatization Commission. According to which this combination was made up of enterprises that were not privatized. A total of 288 national deputies voted in favour of the document. However, the President vetoed the call for a privatisation competition. Everything that was involved is well - known. In fact, it was competitive to have the richest or most valuable of today’s wealth given to two specifics, namely, the Donetsk and the day - to - day families. Despite the fact that the most gross violation of Ukrainian legislation is being considered here, despite the requirement of the Special Supervisory Commission to deal with the matter in the sessional Hall for the prohibition of privatization, despite the need to delay the commencement of privatization by the Bolossian Court, the Kyiv Court of Appeal, following appropriate instructions from the State Administration, changed the case, and the Pecher District Court, after receiving a backlog of the letter from the Bolossian Court of Justice, said that it was not accepted in the conduct of the State Property Fund, although the decision had already been taken and the State Property Fund had been ordered by the Court to suspend the trial, nevertheless, was carried out by the authorities yesterday if a closed session of the State Property Fund was not allowed, the head and the members of the State Property Control Board, which had been most restrictive in the Constitution and the judiciary. In fact, the theft of the greatest wealth took place. This is what happens when, let's say, thieves enter one room, the owners close the other -- and do their job. Although banking structures have also received court decisions to suspend operations on this subject, yesterday we have broadcast several times on television and radio that the budget has become rich for up to four billion dollars, you see, we have people who can put so much money into free circulation. We insist, first of all, on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the management of state-owned property, the declaration of a moratorium on privatization before the end of the presidential campaign. And we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The Communist faction expresses its outrage over the events that took place yesterday at the State Property Fund and the decision-making process. about the so-called privatization, and more loyally, they just gave the most powerful combination of "Cruvoristal" to the two structures. He's referring to Pinchuck and he's referring to Ahmedov. This is a threat to Ukraine’s independence, which comes from the political campaign of the President’s election to unite two powerful clans and by these efforts by two powerful clans to agree on who they are trying to select for the people of Ukraine a suitable president. We Communists once again claim that this is a robbery by the people of Ukraine, that this is a robbery, a fraud and we demand that this morning we hear information from the head of the State Property Fund, which should inform us who is who for what purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Assadchev procedure. Sign up then, please, dear colleagues. Three minutes. Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u8	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think that if we include this issue, now we're going to look at it, it's the right thing to do, to include and consider this question. Let's do this because today it turns out that the word is given to those political forces that support this active power and actually contribute to the theft of state property. And those who fight against it do not give a word. Or let's think about it in a complex and give everyone a word. It's really good for Ukraine and it's important for citizens to know who stole it because they stole it for, by the way, budget money. First, they stole 10 billion in the budget, and then they bought an object for it. So I think, let's put it in the agenda, let's get everyone to speak, not just the chosen ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I want to explain once again that there was a 30-minute recess application. We agreed that they would make their statements on what they wanted to take a break and we would continue to work. As a result, they were given the right to speak. Please, three minutes. Let's exchange thoughts. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Paul Silent, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u10	Please pass the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u11	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u12	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Head! Dear colleagues! What was announced in the media yesterday is simply a mockery of the citizens of our country. Tens of billions of dollars are stolen, and they say 4 billion dollars will go into the budget. At the same time, we're simply forgetting that there were proposals, including from foreign investors, that exceeded the price at which the Crimsonstall was sold in two, three times. No one's talking about it. The clans were given the most profitable object in Ukraine before the presidential election, and they think it will come down. I believe that this issue should be considered essentially, and the faction "Our Ukraine" specifically requires that it be considered in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u13	The Sulkovi Paula faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm proposing to move on to the consideration of the agenda that was given to us today and to stop any further of these political divisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u15	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u16	Please give the floor to my colleague after the faction of the Ukrainian national deputy Borszevski Viktor Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u17	Victor Borszewski, Communist faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u18	Borstevsky, Dneopetrovska oblast, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Yesterday, I attended a meeting of a commission with a number of deputies, which cynically, ignoring the laws, demands of the people's deputies, virtually without any competition, illegally consecrated the sale of "Criminals". We need to know why this huge enterprise is being transferred today, in fact, for the pricelessness in the hands that it does not know what this enterprise will lead to. And, on the other hand, we must, the people's deputies, understand that we are viewed by voters as a people's property. We must finally say our word. And here in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u19	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u20	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'd like to give Lucenka a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u21	Yuri Lucenko, faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u22	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that unsanctioned searches, destroyed computer technology, moral and physical pressure on the members of this commission have been carried out in the premises of the Special Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization. All of this is due to the one-and-one-gang privatisation of the "Criminalstali" in the name of the President. An enterprise that has to work all over Ukraine now works for one family. I understand that yesterday was the anniversary of President Katyushi's granddaughter, and she needs a gift from her grandfather. But there are now representatives of the millions of teachers on the street who demand a repayment of the 57 - article debt. We should, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, now include the issue of the report of the Maintenance Fund, the information of the Kabmin, and the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on the Moratorium of Privatization of Strategic Meaning Objects in the presidential elections. With this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u23	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by the Head of the Committee on Science and Education and asked that we include a broadcast of our meeting on the street because there are educated people there. Is there no objection? Please turn on the broadcast on the street. Dear colleagues, we have here in a heated discussion forgotten to welcome the national deputies of Ukraine Balog Viktor Ivanovich and Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich, on whose birthday today. Let's welcome them and wish them well. Dear colleagues, yesterday during the Conciliation Board, the issue of hearing the government’s information on the state of government administration of state - owned property or the report of the head of the Holding Foundation on the sale of strategic state - owned enterprises was discussed. The right decisions are. Since the Conciliation Council did not receive the required number of votes, it was agreed that this question would be brought to your discretion, to the judgment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the coming, the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's daily draft regulation on government information on the state of administration of public property. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[10:18:35]] For 210 The factions, please. Dear colleagues. I'm announcing it. "Our Ukraine" -98; "Regions of Ukraine" -2; faction of Communists -59; SDPU(o) -0; Deminitives, "The People's Government" -0; "Trubic Ukraine" -0; SPU -20; Block Timoshenko -19; "Centre" -2; "Soyuz" -0; Agrarian Party -0; NDP and industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trudova Ukraine" -2; non-fractional -8. Please. Dear colleagues, please calm down. I put to the vote, please note, on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Resolution on the report of the Head of the State Property Fund of the Czech Republic on the sale of strategic state-owned enterprises, registration number 5591. [[10:19:48]] For 215 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -100; "Regions of Ukraine" -2; Communist faction -59; SDPU -0; "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government" -1, "Trudova Ukraine" -0.SPU -20; Block Timoshenko -19; "Centre" -7, "Soyuz" -0. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There are two suggestions. I'd like to support you. The first suggestion is that we now announce a recess for half an hour and hold meetings of the Conciliation Council. And the second suggestion is that we hold meetings of the Conciliation Council at the same time so that the Supreme Council will meet. Come on, maybe. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 10 hours of 50 minutes. To the leaders of the MP factions and groups, please gather in the office of the Head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? During the meeting of the Conciliation Board, we came up with this decision: the first is that tomorrow, during parliamentary hearings, and you know that they will be with the agenda of the Economic Policy, we will consider an additional separate issue in such a position: the government's information on the state of government property management with relevant information from the government and the appropriate position from the professional committees, from the special committee of control. The next Tuesday, according to the authority of the Supreme Council, we will hear a report from the State Property Fund in the year before. This is what Parliament should do. The report came to Parliament in March-month, and it's now on the boards, and I'm talking about the Economic Policy Committee and the Special Privatization Monitoring Commission. We will also consider after the report Bill 4230 on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Privatization Laws. We agreed and agreed that, despite political differences, despite political emotions, we need to ensure constant, and the main, effective work of Parliament in order not to destroy parliamentaryism in Ukraine. I'd like to support that decision. Well, please, let's exchange thoughts. Please, five minutes. Please sign up. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Peter Simonenko will be next. There's no miner? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Soboljev. Sobolev, please, the faction of our Ukraine, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u26	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! It seems to me that there is simply a delay in considering this key issue. The next week is a review of the head of the holding fund. Then there's really two weeks of work left, and on that, let's be honest, the question of the Crimsons will be closed. So I think it's a perfectly normal urgent question to ask the head of the holding fund to report this week, tomorrow, it's for real. Then, as a result of his report, he made a decision. Maybe we don't have all the information, although I'm convinced that all the deputies consciously, and those who supported this criminal privatization, and those who opposed it have all the information. That's why I thought we should start a discussion of this issue from the head of the State Property Fund, which will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u27	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I do not agree with the proposal offered by Vladimir Mikhailovich, and on the Conciliation Council, I proposed the following: first, we must decide on the fate of the Chrysalis. So I propose that we make an urgent decision to suspend privatization in general before the presidential campaign is completed, and only then to consider all that has to do with privatization. Today we cannot remain silent because our silent position of the Supreme Council is practically legalizing the illegality of the actions that took place yesterday at the State Property Fund. I think it's clear to everyone, once again, that two clans are practically monopolizing the economy and the political life of the state. Ahmetov and Pinchuk agreed on each other, and thus the most profitable enterprise, taking them from state property today, is transforming them into a power grabbing mechanism in the state. We Communists offer urgent consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u29	Yes, Grzezhev is referring to Stanislaw Nikolaynko, a faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u30	Ukrainian Socialist Party, Nikolainka Dear National Deputies! Well, first of all, let's say today that the Bologna Court has suspended the privatisation process by its ruling. And that is why I believe that the Attorney General must do everything today to stop this process without waiting for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. The faction of socialists insists that we go wider and take further steps. It's about a moratorium on privatization for presidential elections, because it's going to be sold, all this property, and we're going to come to the election -- there's not going to be a budget, there's not going to be anything in the state! And the next. We insist that the report be the head of the State Property Fund about what, listen to me: I think Michael Chechtchev, he's crossed the threshold of possible, he needs to resign himself, otherwise you're not interrupting anything. We insist on an immediate consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u31	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u32	Thank you. First of all, I would like to state that putting this case in a long box is simply unacceptable. Because not only did privatization take place illegally, it's not just because it happened in the family and the clans just broke up with each other, it's about how much money lost the Ukrainian privatisation budget. I personally opposed privatization in general. But when you're privatizing, it's worth some money. I'd like to hear it from this rostrum, Chechtov, with why he went to the crime scene. Because these are criminal acts, and no resignation will save him, his actions will be dealt with sooner or later. But we need to know how much we lost on this privatization. It is estimated that from $700 million and above there were losses because competitors offered more than the Leonidas Kuchma family. So I would like this report not to be postponed, but to be considered this week, literally today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Respectable national MPs will certainly be threatened by the creation of the State Budget for 2005 today because of the sale of our greatest giant. We're in favour of a moratorium on privatization, because the Odessa Portion Plant is still on the line. It is also a greedy piece, and today it is also intended to buy them. I'm pointing out that Chechtov doesn't need to be heard by the prosecutor. If Vasilyev fails to do so, another Attorney General must do so. I'd like to draw your attention to those who don't vote on two factions that have a bearing on these clans, that complicity in crime is a conspiracy to steal from the people of Ukraine's property in particular. And so I demand urgent consideration today, tomorrow it will be too late. And the judgment of the Court of Voice has to be carried out because it has been rendered in a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Let me summarize your statements. I want to emphasize once again that on the conciliatory council we have tried and I have made these proposals in order to find at least some understanding in Parliament, so that there is no opposition and not to be inactive. The Supreme Council was not idle. And tomorrow's about time. Well, we've already put to the vote, dear colleagues. No decision was made. And we agreed in principle, and I asked the conciliatory board, so let's support this proposal. There will be a broadcast tomorrow during parliamentary hearings, an opportunity to present its position. When decisions are made on the outcome of these hearings, we will vote on them. I've already put all the voting proposals to the vote today. Let's keep working. Please. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we should go back to the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the 2000 Ukrainian Armed Forces. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's do a draft decision that's going to be tomorrow after the hearings, and we're going to bring them in and we're going to look at them. There are no draft regulations. Peter Mikolaiovich, no. We were the ones who voted. They didn't get any support. I understand. Well, tomorrow let's discuss this more thoroughly. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, who they were, we all voted them out. There were no new projects. Well, believe me, Peter Mikolaiovich. Well, let's work, but we've arranged for the Conciliation Council, your honors. I want to emphasize again. At the Conciliation Council, we came to the conclusion that it was necessary to return to the previously unsupported draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine 2000-2005. May I have your attention, please? I'm going to put this motion to the vote so you can support it. I am voting for the return to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine 2000-2005. [[11:33:59]] For 175 The decision is not supported. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 1, Ukraine - 59, Communist - 1, Ukraine - 39, Labour Ukraine - 29, People's Agrarian Party - 14, SPI - 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 1, Union - 12, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 0, NDP and PPU - 14, Center - 1, Postfraction - 4. [[united]] Then it is announced in the second reading of the draft Law on Reforming the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u36	There were 68 comments and suggestions to the draft law, 24 in total, and 19 in part. The committee proposed that the President introduce a draft law on the establishment of a new number of Armed Forces that we had not accepted, remove those positions, and remove the position of transition to a three - species structure. This law is passed, even though it is virtually impossible to implement it now because a new number of the Armed Forces has not been established. In this connection, the committee proposes to introduce the law on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and members of their families. The committee has taken into account the proposals that have allowed for a substantial strengthening of the social guarantees for military personnel who are released from the Armed Forces in connection with reform, and it proposes the adoption of this law as a second reading and as the Law. Some comments regarding the remaining articles may need to be considered where they have been rejected. That's the 31st amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u37	Now, one minute, we'll find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u38	31st Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u39	Yeah, 31st amendment on page eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u40	This is an amendment by the Pehota People’s Deputy, he writes that a mechanism for the proper level of social security for persons who have not set a time limit for the right to use health facilities of the Ministry of Defence is not perfectly developed. The use of these facilities is unlimited. So I don't think my colleague is going to insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u41	Is Vladimir Juliusovitch insisting? No, it doesn't. Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u42	32nd Amendment. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij suggests removing the words about improving living conditions. Except for the words, "if the benefit is 15 calendar years or more, and the period of residence exceeds 10 years." This is a major amendment, and we don't have to vote for it if the Supreme Council supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u43	Boris Bespali, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u44	Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine", Bespalian. I am pleased that the committee is inclined to support this amendment. What is it? Those who are expected to be released or retired under this law are expected to receive housing or long - term credit. But not all but those who have served for 15 years. I served 14 years on the street. Moreover, even if a person has served 15 years, let’s say, but he is only nine years in turn, let’s say, he too is on the street. We insist that all who are released or retired under this law are provided with accommodations or benefits. Otherwise, on our streets, we're going to get the vending machines. We don't want that. Moreover, we believe that without this amendment it is impossible to vote on this law at all. And I think this is where the committee will support us and support the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u45	The committee supports it, right? Dear colleagues, the committee supports such an amendment. I'm putting her to a vote. This is the 32nd amendment that Boris Bespali just made. Please vote. [[11:39:16]] For 341 Correction counted. For 341. Everyone, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u46	No, there's a 36th amendment. The national deputy Gabrieluk asks for clarification, is provided with an individual home. Well, individual housing -- you can understand that a separate house is being given. Remove the words "individual." I don't think the national MP will deny it after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u47	That's 36th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u48	36th, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u49	Should we put her to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u50	No, he doesn't need to, maybe he doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u51	Don't insist. Then perhaps who insists on making adjustments that are unaccounted for or that are not fully considered? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u52	None. Let us then vote on the name of the law and the law. Comrade Simonenko, deleted articles relating to the number of Armed Forces and the tri-species structure. But the adoption of this law will be. That's what you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, we need you. Now, one minute, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk is asking for his word. Microphone, please. And then we vote on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to find out a very important situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u55	May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u56	In view of the fact that the law adopted in the first reading is reported in this case. In the first reading, a law was passed that defined the number, which determined the integration of two types of Armed Forces into one, and defined social guarantees for military personnel. This law of February 19 was adopted in the first reading. It was complex. And the third part of it is social guarantees, it just provided social guarantees for those military personnel who will be forced to release in the reform process. Today, if the numbers are not confirmed, which means that the reform is suspended, then the adoption of the law is only about the social guarantees that we support, but it creates a special regime for those military personnel that will be released this year, a special regime that will be different from those that were released last year, 2003 and in the future of 2005. So I think we should find out. In this case, the law of the first reading, adopted in the first, is discussed in the second reading, where these are accepted, apart from social guarantees and numbers, and the integration of two species. Whether this law, in addition to changing the name, also provides for other changes in the structure of the law. Because by accepting social guarantees, we will create favorable conditions and situations for military personnel this year, but they will not be released from reform, so reform in relation to non-admission is blocked, so the law on these formations that it is today becomes, well, unknown to whom it is being adopted. Reform has been halted because the number has not been voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u57	Yes, please, the position of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u58	Well, the committee made an absolute majority statement for the adoption of the law establishing the number on December 30 of this year. This was necessary in order to open the way for the normal reform of the Armed Forces, including the creation of a new species of the Armed Forces, based on the merger of two species, which envisioned a reduction of 17,000. People, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, That's why I had to take it that way. Since the President did not pass this law, but passed a separate law on the establishment of numbers, we voted separately, and we did not adopt it. The Minister is right when he says that we are adopting this law, but we are taking it into some future perspective, even though the shortcut is actually going to go, and we're probably going to talk about it in the 22nd. The situation is clearly not normal, and as head of the committee, I can say that what we did, we did absolutely wrong, and we created a very negative situation that would further wrong the psychological climate in the Armed Forces. Sadly, though, this has happened. And that's why this law we can adopt, it fully corresponds to the position of the committee, the committee. And you can take it. But right now we can't write about the three-species structure, we've passed a separate law for the Cabinet of Ministers. In terms of numbers, we did not adopt the law passed by the President, including the committee's proposed edition. Well, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u59	Yes, thank you. Manchulenko, Andresuk, Simonenko Dear colleagues, let's do one thing from the faction, not all at once. Identify yourself, please. One of the factions and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u60	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear friends! Reform is not blocked. It's an adopted law on the creation of three-species Armed Forces. On the basis of this law, a new type of Armed Forces will be formed on the basis of two existing ones at the moment. As a result of this reform, military personnel will be released and they will need certain guarantees as a result of such reform. So the reform is not blocked, the unwarranted reduction in the number of the Armed Forces is blocked. At the moment, there's a law on the number of Armed Forces for 2005, which no one has changed, and it's not cancelled. That's why this rule works, and it needs to be followed very seriously, because the President's decrees, as they now tell me from the Ministry of Defense, have never crossed the laws of Ukraine, and no one has changed them, these laws. Therefore, the reform is not blocked, it is in force, and this law on State guarantees must be adopted so that military personnel who will be released have adequate guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u61	Boris Andresyuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to personally address those MPs who may not have understood what we are voting for. Dear Mr. Manchulenko, you just said the right thing, but today we've passed a law on a three-species structure, and we want or we don't want to shorten military personnel in this regard. And the law that doesn't work today doesn't allow us to reduce any more people, because there's no reduction quotas. So it would be worth it in this law on social protection, which we are considering today, to put it into the third article, which was adopted and voted in the first reading, to establish the number in accordance with the law passed by the President, and to vote in general in the second reading and in general this bill, and we would logically have completed the entire legislative cycle. Otherwise, the law without the number that we vote on today will not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u63	Peter Simonenko, please the Communist faction, and someone from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u64	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners! The Communist faction has voted in favour of strengthening the social protection of military personnel in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces, by removing those articles that have a bearing on the trividal composition of the Armed Forces and the reduction of numbers. Because the reduction in the numbers of the Armed Forces is not reform, and that's understandable to everyone. So once again, I stress that we are voting for this law, and it will be a framework law for all possible future so-called reforms that are trying to follow NATO's instructions, destroying the ability of our state. That's why I, and I emphasize, we voted against the reduction in numbers, we voted in favour of the tri-species structure, and we vote today, the Communist faction, for strengthening the social protection of the military if they fall under the so-called reform of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u65	Stepan Bulba. Well, in 30 seconds, tell me, well, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u66	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I'd like to quote, by the way, yours, Georgi Korniyovich, in a letter from the President. You said, "Justice is for the sake of me to say that in the government's version the bill could not have been adopted even in the first reading." So the point is that when we finally stop cheating on the military, using them as a coin of exchange?Oh, my God! In the end, we have to say that there is no budget, there is no social protection planned for this, a law that is now being proposed for adoption. That's the main thing. Next: Why have we not yet resolved the issue of imbalances previously released and so forth? I repeat: the adoption of these laws is possible in a complex, only if the problems that have been created long ago and for the army and for former military pensioners are solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u67	I have to answer that. Stephen Stepanovich, you correctly quoted, but you did not quote everything and say everything. Which, indeed, we adopted in the first reading is an imperfect law, but you tell us what we did with this law. That's what we did, the committee made the law that all the military are waiting for. And we're blocking it! And that question that you're asking right now, it's blocking the adoption of this law at all. You're right, you're absolutely right about pension insurance, that's right. But here is the government’s commission. But if we don't accept it and we don't accept it, let's go to the military, they're going to listen to us and they're going to say that you failed this law, because you don't want to support people who are in a very difficult position right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a discussion, I'd like to. One minute, I'd like to be motivated to. Please, Kuzmuk. All right, five minutes out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we have artificially done the situation that has arisen today. On the first reading, we passed a law that would generally meet the main objective of promoting the Supreme Council to reform the Armed Forces. We've artificially broken it into three parts. They were adopted by one medium, and they provided a new type of military force on the basis of two existing forces, which today cannot be carried out by the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, because it affects the total number of Armed Forces that we cannot accept for reasons that are unclear. The State Guarantees Act, the Social Guarantees Act, it provides social security for all measures. So I propose to include the proposed law on State guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u70	Yes, thank you. The replica of Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk and we will now be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that the reform programme this year was intended to reduce the call of military service personnel by 14,000. Without voting for numbers, we are now calling for such a vote, and we will be forced to add 14,000 military appeals, which we did not plan. The other one. We didn't plan to recruit 3,000 extra classmates because they wouldn't have a place to stay for the future. We're going to have to keep picking it up. The 5,000 railway servicemen who are being transferred to the Ministry of Transport should also be stopped. And the last. The merger of two types of Armed Forces this year is a structure that duplicates one another, and 11,000 military personnel were to be released. If the vote did not take place, all the figures should remain. So we're calling 14,000 and everything I said next. Thank you. I'd like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Now let's do it this way. Let's vote on the name of the law, and then we have three about the inadmissibility. If people don't give up their draft regulations, they will, we will vote against this bill. So I'd like to have your attention. I am voting on the name of the draft Act on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel who are released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and their families. Please vote. [[11:53:54]] For 381 Decision taken. Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. We're going to consider unacceptableness, we're going to have three projects about unacceptableness. Author Vasjunik, are you insisting on your project? Let them say if they take it off, I'll just ask. Don't you insist? Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Today, there is a reduction in the military forces of Ukraine de facto without different decisions. And let's be clear about that. Eugene Kirilovich, I'd like you to confirm that. Because those people who are being thrown out of the army today are not socially protected, because it's kind of going to be reformed, not reformed, and the destruction of the Armed Forces was being proposed. Therefore, if in this regard we ask the question that we will adopt the Law, as we have now voted "On State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and members of their families", then we can vote in favour of this Act as a committee. And then the meaning of the inadmissibility that I'm about to justify will fall away. In fact, I argue that today there is no real, no military doctrine that would change. There have been no changes in the external threats to the state of Ukraine, which are now due to the expansion of forces that have polarized, on the one hand -- NATO, on the other hand -- the re-arms of other countries, including the Russian Federation. I can't see today, there's no evidence of why we have to rescind the law that already existed today. And the argument that the Secretary of Defense has made today is that this law can only be passed in a compound with a reduction, and the significant reduction, as proposed by the President, is almost 90,000, compared to what is now, I think, of course, unacceptable. Because they violate the rights of military officers, all the officers who went and defined their profession as one to protect their homeland, and now their rights are getting worse. So, in that case, if this law is going to go to the committee, and it's about state guarantees, I'm not going to insist that we vote against it, and I'm not going to vote against it. I am in favour of the Social Guarantees Act, but against the mechanical reduction, which is called the fashion word “reform” because there is no reform. Reform will be when we get new planes. At least one commanding officer will tell us that in 13 years a rapist has been acquired. It's not there yet, it's nothing. So that's how I feel about this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin has withdrawn the draft of the inadmissibility decree. I want to remind you that this project is not about reducing the numbers of the Armed Forces and it's not about the types of Armed Forces, because it's been passed into separate laws, it's just about social protection. Andrew School, are you insisting on your draft decision? No, it's not. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u75	Thank you. First of all, my law of inadmissibility was aimed at really protecting the military, not at the military leadership at the top. Because the reform that was under way to improve the social base of the military, which it wanted to extend, in principle, was. And this matter was actually that it didn't go through and it won't go through Parliament, as it is for me, is a positive thing. Because first of all, if we're talking about social security, we need to think about military pensioners. Speaking of arms cuts, military forces, it is important not to talk about the reduction of weapons, which is constantly taking place in connection with the aging of weapons. Secondly, if we're talking about reform, we need to define the military doctrine clearly and unequivocally that it's not now done. Therefore, it is usually necessary and necessary to protect and provide social security to the State for those species of people whose will has been cast out or thrown away on board. But let's face it, if a Ukrainian state that is poor can support almost 500,000 militia personnel, why can't it support 350,000 military personnel? What's the problem? The police are needed by the army. We can now talk about the fact that the army is as underfunded today as the overfunded militia. What's the problem? Here we just have to determine whether we are the police state of Ukraine, whether we are a normal state where a powerful and powerful army is needed. Because the story is that the state, if it doesn't want to feed its army, will feed a foreigner, is more relevant than ever. That's why the self-reliance of the Ukrainian army is most certainly the concern of those who serve this army, and even those who have ever served in it. Because what's happening in the Armed Forces today can't stop anyone -- or those who have a direct attitude and attitude towards the Armed Forces, or those who simply appear, I don't know, a foreign observer. Because sooner or later, all of us will suffer from the fact that Ukraine does not have a powerful army. So once again, I'm saying that since there's been a change in the design of this issue. It means now that the so-called reformation is now isolated, because for me it is not reform, it is removed from the ranks of the military and the merger of the ranks of the military. So, the usual thing is, I don't mind having a law on the social protection of the military here in this room. Because it is unfortunately necessary to protect the military. Because we give them the opportunity to protect us, to protect the Ukrainian state. Because the Ukrainian budget has never raised money to have any aircraft there, even though one tank is purchased, or I don't talk about one military ship that could have been built or several dozen military boats to at least formally protect the coasts of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote, please note, the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Act on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and their families. Registration number 5101. Please vote. Take down the vote. So you said they were deleted. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee has already reported that this is not about numbers or about the types of Armed Forces. Therefore, please note that I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Act on State Guarantees and Social Protection of Military Servants, which is exempt from service in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces and members of their families. Registration number 5101. Please vote. [[12:02:11]] For 386 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I have put to the vote in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, we have already adopted. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we were supposed to take a break right now, but since we've been taking a break for almost an hour, why don't we just continue our work? Shall we continue our work or not? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u77	I'd like to invite the distinguished national deputies to the session room, and we'll continue our work. You see, you didn't have to take a break. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is being reviewed. Second reading. Reporter Anatoly Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u78	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 13 May 2004 considered the draft Ukrainian law as a comparative table amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on the performance of post-authority duties]] The purpose of the draft law in question is to regulate the issue of the performance of the duties of rural, rural, urban head in the event of a permanent suspension of his authority and the imposition of duties on the secretary of the appropriate village, village, and city council. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government has received three proposals from legislators. These apply primarily to articles 42 and 50 of the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine. Two of them are listed, the author of the national MP Bespali, and one of them is not. As the author of the amendment, which is not included, I agree that the term of election should be written in electoral legislation, so I will not insist on voting on the amendment. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, based on the above, makes a proposal: Adopt the proposed law in second reading and, if possible, in general. Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's invite you to the hall again, because maybe really.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u79	Invite the people's deputies to the hall, because there's going to be a vote now, so we don't crash the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u80	By the way, this bill, your honorary colleagues, is very important, because today, in the state of self-government, for various reasons, many heads are retiring, and trusts, respectively, in the performance of secretarial functions, which is not in the legal field. Therefore, there is a proposal, indeed, that the bill should be supported in order for the relevant officials to be given the right to exercise their powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u81	Are we ready to vote, dear colleagues? Because it's an important bill. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on the performance of post-authority duties]] Registration number 3599. Please vote. [[12:37:36]] For 330. The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, second reading, is being announced for consideration. Philip Philipovich Budzigan is a reporter, a member of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property, and investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! This bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is discussed in the committee and submitted to your consideration for second reading. According to the bill, he also received two suggestions that were included. This means that to introduce into the types of commercial activities that are subject to licensing, extraction of beneficial fossils with stocks that are valued as industrial, are of general significance and constitute a state-owned mineral crop foundation. And the second observation is that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a two-month period, will make its decision in accordance with this law. The bill is extremely important, extremely relevant, you know how this problem is. The Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council agrees, and therefore the Committee takes you into consideration to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u83	Yes, I'd like your attention, Your Honor. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. With motive? Please cancel the vote. Barranian microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u84	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! We are now being asked to adopt amendments to the licensing law, and tomorrow we will be licensing all the services provided by the social services. I mean, there's an uncle in the house tomorrow who's going to do this job and he's going to have a license. I mean, I'm leading to all of our activities being licensed today. License is corruption. We need to be careful about this, and our faction will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting for a second-reading proposal and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, registration number 3363. Please vote. [[12:40:32]] For-97 The decision is not taken. So what's the committee's proposal? To the others again? I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to send a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on licensing certain types of economic activity for re-reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:41:10]] Z-70. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Law on Metrology and Metrology is being announced for consideration. [[new editor, second read]] Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, chairman of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that we now need to consider the matter in substance in the second reading procedure, I would first like to give the floor to the national MP Bespalam, who was the author of the bill on the inadmissibility of the law. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, at the expense of my order, I ask that you give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u87	Please give the word to Boris Yakovitch right away. I just didn't see that there was a draft decision. Since Boris Bespalij passed a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft Act amending the Law on Metrology and Metrology, he has the right to base his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! This bill has two elements. The first ingredient is essentially technological, and this term is very well written, which is inherently relevant to the committee, and there's no objection here. But the second ingredient is social. And in this respect, there were two positions that merit the attention that I'm going to pay attention to, and it was referred to by our Chief Legal Authority. That is, it was suggested that all measuring devices, such as the power counters that are in our homes, be trusted. Even if this is done for individuals, it was done at the expense of the users themselves. So you have a gas counter, a water counter, an electric meter. So this belief, whether they're working properly or not, the metrology services should be doing it at your own expense. Well, of course, the Supreme Council could not have made such a surprising and unpleasant surprise for our people. And that's why I think it's completely wrong and unconstitutional. On the other hand, the authors of the bill said that as a result of trust, there could be a decision on the part of the consumer that a person would pay less. But I'd like to make a comparison here with tax. As a result of tax checks, it may also be found that a person or an enterprise actually has to pay less than he has paid. This does not mean, however, that tax checks are to be carried out at the expense of enterprises or at all that are being checked. So this is one position. And the second is the same thing about enterprises. I think these motives were pretty serious. And now we're talking about them on the committee. I have to say that the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship has taken my proposals seriously, they have been considered by the Committee, and the Committee has agreed with them. I mean, the additional proposals now say that the trust of equipment made by individuals will be carried out on the basis of organizations and enterprises that provide services from electrical and gas supply. [[that's in living people.]] So this proposal is included. The other one. What is involved with legal persons, that is, businesses. Now the order of trust is established by a legal and regulatory act. This means that it can also be at the expense of an enterprise if it initiates trust or at the expense of that body. In view of the fact that the committee listened, and I thank him very much, I have taken these suggestions into account, and I am withdrawing my draft decree, and I am asking everyone to accept the bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u89	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. As you can see, the previous work was made available to the committee with 156 suggestions from this Law on Metrology and Meteorological Activities. We are grateful to the National Deputies of Kravchenko, Kalinchuku, Policchuku, Mother, Bespaloma, Zapatinski, who have made their proposals, which have greatly improved the content of the law. I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, because I've come to understand that, we've agreed on all positions. There is a request to put questions to the vote if there is no insistence on national MPs. He recorded in connection with what he had done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, are all the proposals of the national MPs actually taken into account? Those who were unaccounted for, they were agreed on the committee, it was the right argument. So we have every reason to put the committee's proposal to the vote. May I have your attention, please? On the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Metrology and Metrology, registration number 1064-D. [[new editor]] Please vote. Vote your honorary colleagues. [[12:46:43]] For 352 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy is being announced for consideration. [[on the characteristics of the Act in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] [[second reading]] Reporter to the Subcommittee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Sergey Anatoliyovich Matviyenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the Industrial Policy Committee has considered a second-reading bill. The essence of the bill is as follows. In the current draft of the bill, part three of article four was in force, which provided for us to obtain a licence for the right to engage in activities related to the work of scrap metal, and required an act of examination by the relevant administrative authorities. The bill prepared for second reading states that the rules for obtaining an act of survey concern the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in which the situation of the administrations does not apply. In this option, these rights will be transferred to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Either the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea hands these powers over to the relevant councils. That is to say, in large terms, we have generally allowed conflict, we have not taken into account when adopting a scrap metal bill, that there is no administrative structure in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and by this bill we correct this so to say conflict or this discrepancy. The bill is purely technical. He, let us put it this way, has not received any absolute comments. Therefore, there is a proposal to adopt it as a whole and as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy on the specificity of the act of law in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Registration number 3145. Please vote. [[12:48:49]] For 197 The law is not adopted. What's the committee's offer? I don't know what they're fixing, dear colleagues. I'm voting for re-reading draft law number 3145. [[12:49:19]] For-195 The law is rejected. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Reporter to the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Gureev Vasil Mikolaiovich. Please, Vasil Mikolaiovich. Let's make a proposal to the committee right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u94	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies. This law is designed to support shipbuilding because the industry has specific working conditions, this sector with a long-term production cycle that involves large amounts of credit resources in its production, and because credit resources have sufficient value, you know, in our country, we have to take separate conditions for this very important sector in our country’s export potential. It's not a new law. The same law existed and functioned and allowed shipbuilding to be removed from the crisis, but the law was in force until January 1, 2005. So the Committee on Industrial Policy has considered all the comments. They're practically all accounted for, more than 30 comments were made by the deputies, almost all comments are taken into account. There is also a legal conclusion. I am very much asking to uphold the law and come to it as a friend in reading and taking into account the position of the Committee of Industrial Policy, and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u95	What questions? Are there any repairs? No, let's fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u96	Corrections are all counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u97	Please, Carmazin, microphone. There's one amendment that doesn't include Stanecki. He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u98	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend Vasil Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u99	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u100	I have a question, because now you've said, Vasil Mikolaiovich, that there's no reference to scientific expertise, to the rule of law. At the same time, we have a reference to this law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And they're made up of four points. The main thing is that the list of benefits is expanding and tax laws are not changed. I'm here to make sure there's benefits in our shipbuilding companies. But let's make changes to tax laws, or it'll all be illegal. You understand very well that this is going to be the law on which the veto is going to be imposed. That's clear. We're asking the government here to reduce the benefits, so let's write that down. There's no change. Let's do it clearly or protocolly right now, or we'll crash the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u101	I want to answer that question in this way. Indeed, there is a negative practice when the country’s budget law deletes individual or separate points of existing legislation. By the way, this refers to the previous law on support for the shipbuilding of Ukraine. The budget, the 2004 Budget Act, these rules are eliminated, and now, on Thursday, we're going to vote on the reinstatement of these norms. Do you understand? But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law, which exists today, works until 1 January 2005, and we have to adopt a new law that will work before 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Shipbuilding Industry in Ukraine. Registration number 4346. Please vote. [[12:53:40]] For 327 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u104	It's being announced. That's what we've adopted in general, the law's been passed. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is being announced for consideration. [[on children with disabilities]] Is it wide, Yuri Volodymyrovich? Please, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u105	Thank you. Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster introduces a second reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u106	One minute, excuse me. Ivan Ivanovich Tkalenko, I beg you, take your place in the government's bed and don't do this anymore. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u107	On the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, registration number 2470. The bill is intended to extend the status of victims of the Chernobyl disaster to those affected by article 27 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, to children who have reached adulthood and who have had a causal link between disability and the Chernobyl disaster. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the second reading of the bill, the Committee considered the provisions of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the above-mentioned Act on Confirmation of the Status of Chernobyl Disabled Persons. Developed by Ukrainian national deputies Volodymyr Bondarenko, Mikola Polishchuk and Alexander Omelchenk. Registration number 3730-1. Of the ten proposals, three are included, three are included, four are rejected. These are the proposals that fit the logic of the bill, i.e. they're socially protective of children, the disabled, after reaching adulthood. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, to be adopted as a law as a whole. Please support the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, are there no objections to the committee's proposals? May I have your attention, please? It is put to the vote for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act on the Amendment of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. [[on children with disabilities]] Registration number 2470. Please vote. [[12:56:58]] For 371 The law is passed. They've already passed the law. Thank you. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families is under review. The committee is headed by the National Security and Defence Committee Committee, Stepanovich Bulba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! The National Security and Defence Committee considered the bill. The project is designed to provide additional sanitation. I apologize for the social security of the members of the families of military personnel who died, died or were missing during the military service. A second reading of the bill included 19 comments and proposals from the National Deputies, as well as proposals from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. Of the proposed comments and suggestions are taken into account completely 12, partially negative 4, negative 3. According to a report by the Supreme Council Committee on Budgeting, the proposed bill will have an impact on part of the income of the local budgets of 200,000 dollars, which is why it is appropriate to put it into effect from the new fiscal year. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council did not comment on the draft law. The National Security and Defence Committee considered this issue on April 21, this year, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u110	Yes, dear colleagues, no objection? Yes, with the motives of Jaroslav Suhi, please. For reasons of vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u111	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Trudova Ukraine. Dear National MPs and Radio Hearers! I point out that this bill was registered in November 2002. First vote in March 2003. The second vote in second reading and in general, June 14, 2004. I pay attention to those who intend or block the rostrum. Look at the heavy cost of this delay. On behalf of the Committee of Military Mothers, on behalf of the Committee of the Social Protection Fund of the Peacetime Workers, on behalf of those mothers who have cried their eyes out for their dead sons in peacetime, I ask everyone to vote on the second reading of the bill as a whole. And all the Ukrainian national MPs I urge, let's work together on these bills that would establish the social status of families of soldiers who died in peacetime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families. [[Registration number 2467]] Please vote. [[13:00:36]] For 353 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Civil Servants, Senior Officials, Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons on the Calculation of Pensions is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The reporter, Stepanovich Bulba. Please, Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 March this year, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence reviewed and discussed the draft Act on the Retirement of the Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. [[Registration number 3718 of July 7, 2003]] The project is designed to identify the same base for the appointment and calculation of pensions for military personnel, persons of the primary and regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some other persons, to increase their social protection and to eliminate the imbalances of pensions assigned to them at different times. I would stress that the adoption of this bill will eliminate the pension gap for all those who have been released in various years from the ranks of the Armed Forces. For a second reading of the bill. He received 28 comments and suggestions from national deputies. And these are the proposals of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Of the proposed comments and suggestions are taken into account completely minus 18, partially minus 6, negative 4. According to a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, adoption of the bill in the proposed edition requires additional spending from the State budget of 1 billion 944 million grevens, which is why the Kabmin bill is not supported. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee with this position of government, disagree and suggest that it be put into effect gradually for two years, starting on January 1, 2005. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council did not comment on the draft law. The National Security and Defence Committee considered this issue on May 13, 2004, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the aforementioned draft law in the second reading and generally as a law. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, no objections and no comments to this project? Then I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Act on the Amendment to the Law of Ukraine on the Retirement of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons on the Calculation of Pensions, registration No. 3718. Please vote. [[13:04:27]] For 362 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Cibenko Peter Stepanovich is head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. In carrying out the commission of the Supreme Council, the committee was working on Bill 3078. The committee received four suggestions from the legislators. The situation is: of these, three are fully accounted for, one is partially accounted for. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s legal authorities called for this document without notice. The committee proposes that this document be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, there are no other considerations? The proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, registration number 3078. Please vote. [[13:05:50]] For 337 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on job creation]] Reporter to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, this document has been clarified, and separate provisions of the law on the employment of disabled persons have been regulated. It's not an easy situation today to employ people with disabilities, so we're still trying to improve it to some extent by this law. As for the proposals that came to the committee on this bill, there are only 7 proposals, 4 of which are taken into account in full, 3 included in part. The committee requests the Supreme Council Hall to support this bill in its second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u118	Now it's the fourth amendment. Boris Bespali. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u119	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, there is such a coalition that they can either be created here or in the workplaces for the disabled, or actually paid compensation, or a fine for not creating such jobs, which is actually right and fair. But wrongly and unjustly, there is another. With regard to small businesses where they work, say, 10 people, there are no more than four percent of them when they create jobs, or even if they are one job, ten percent. And for such enterprises, it is more convenient in a number of situations to pay a fine. So I propose, and my amendment, and my position, by the way, agreed with Mr. Suškević, is that in cases where a fine is paid instead of creating jobs, it always pays equal to or less than four percent. Then it's going to be equal terms. So it's either four percent of the jobs, or the fine is four percent. To ensure that small businesses or individual entrepreneurs do not pay ten, twelve, and fifteen percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u120	Boris Yakovich, you understand, and we are grateful to the committees for your serious work on those bills that go along with the committee. But we think that any decision in law, including or perhaps primarily, is a matter of compromise. If you remember, a bill was first passed, which began with four persons. Today, the decision that has been made is a matter of compromise. So I'd like to make this decision anyway. And there is no limit to perfection; we can go back a little later to this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u121	Thank you. No one's insisting on their amendments yet? The national deputy Gorbachev introduced a draft decree on inadmissibility. Is there a Gorbachev? None. However, in order to preserve the legal purity of the regulation, I will put to the vote the first draft of the regulation. I'll give you my word, one minute. First draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. Registration number 3559/P-1, author of the National MP Gorbachev. [[13:09:44]] For the four of us. Yes, Hot Helen, Deputy Minister, do you have anything to say for a moment?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u122	I ask the Supreme Council to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u123	Thank you. The Cabinet of Ministers in the Deputy Minister's office supports this law. I put to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, a proposal for a second-reading committee and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on job creation]] Registration number 3559. Please vote. [[13:10:30.]] For 318 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the number of persons]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Please Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, when a large law on special merit pensions was considered before Ukraine, a whole category of participants in the war with Japan was lost. And the bill proposes that special merit pensions, other than those of the Great Homeland War veterans, include participants in military conflicts and war with Japan. The category is few, but people are legally claiming status and to be taken into account in the Pensions Act for special merit before Ukraine. So the second reading received four proposals. All the proposals that dealt with the topic, because one topic concerned village and rural heads, did not fall within the scope of the Act. All proposals are therefore taken into account, and the Committee proposes that the law be adopted on second reading and generally as a law, and that the participants of the war with Japan be allowed to be equal in their rights under social guarantees with the participants of the Great Homeland War. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u125	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. All adjustments are included. Therefore, the proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine, registration number 3675-1. [[on the number of persons]] Please vote. [[13:12:41]] For 311 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Stepanovich Cibenko Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! The committee carefully reviewed the comments and suggestions that came from the legislators to the second reading of the document. The table includes 23 proposals by Ukrainian national deputies and the government as the subject of the legislative initiative. These 15 proposals are taken into account in full, partially or in another six, and two are not included. The committee therefore proposes that this law be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, no objection? No one insists on amendments that have not been taken into account? The Cabinet of Ministers supports this bill. Therefore, the proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration number 3526, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:14:20]] For 358 The law is passed. A draft regulation on the arrangements for organizing the activities of temporary special and investigative commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced. Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable National Deputies, the committee worked on a draft decree, taking into account the written comments of the national deputies who came to the committee. And on this basis, a comparative table was drawn up. There were 10 amendments, three of them counted, seven rejected. In particular, written proposals were taken into account, that is, amendments made by the national deputies Bespalogo and Zubov, partly taking into account comments made by the national deputy Carmazin. However, members of the committee did not support the proposal made, such as by P.E. Karmazin, to exclude paragraph three from the draft decision adopted in the first reading. Because of article 6.2. 14 The Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for the second reading of the bill to be submitted to the draft law adopted in the first reading on the basis. The deletion of paragraph three of the ruling changes the content of the document, as it includes the cessation of the activities of three temporary investigators and special commissions. In view of the fact that the draft decree of March was not submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it also requires changes in its deadlines for the consideration of the reports of the interim commissions by the Supreme Council. So in paragraph two, first of all, the word "at the fifth" is proposed to be replaced by 6. It means the session of the Supreme Council. And it is also appropriate to provide for the reports of these committees during September and October of this year. Paragraph 4 also suggests that the date of submission of the reports be changed to June 25th of this year instead of June 23rd, i.e. that until the end of this session there should be some time left to generalize it. Please consider the draft decision and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u129	No, that's not a question. We do. The second reading goes, you can't ask questions. Dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments? None. I'll put it to a vote. Yuri Carmazin. Take off the vote, please. Yuri Karmazin, if possible, Yuri Anatoliyevich, justifies any changes you make. We'll vote on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u130	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In one minute you gave me, I can't and can't make all the adjustments right now and talk. Moreover, you have no right to ask me to do so. I would like all the Supreme Council committees to report to the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like it not to be blocked, it's to be done with a machine. I would like everyone to hear the truth about Mukachevo and the circumstances that other commissions have been created on today, and so I would like us to approach this law more carefully. If you make a general comment, I'll say something like this: you can't have this law in the paper, because I think it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u131	Amendment 1 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:19:10]] For-72 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u132	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I apologize, but I have to explain. Carmazin says that it is necessary to listen to information about the work, or reports, about the work of all temporary investigators and special commissions. Yes, we, I mean the Supreme Council, for this, and this draft decision, particularly, is scheduled to be considered in September-Yellow months, that is, at the sixth session, unfortunately, we are late to consider this issue at this session, to consider the reports of the 10 committees. On the other hand, the offer of a colleague of Carmazin torpedoes the consideration of these reports during the sessions of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u133	Amendment number two. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am firmly against this arbitrary interpretation of mine. I once again said that if the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, by 150 votes, created an investigative commission, it should be able to report to it. That's how I ask the question, not what my colleague is now asking. So I ask you not to distort my point of view. I'm the one who made the remark. As for the second amendment. So I'm going to propose to Preamble the project in a different edition. I would like to state that, as a result of hearing and discussing a draft ruling prepared by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council notes the absence of comments by the General Directorate on non-compliance with the requirements of Part One of the Rules. Next. Note the low level of preparation of the Rules Committee, which is referred to as the Main Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Texts are given to everyone, you just have to argue with the correction. Let's not read it because it's big enough. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u136	The committee didn't support it, turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u137	I'm voting on amendment number two, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:21:50]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Amendment 4 Yuri Carmazin. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. In this fourth amendment, I ask you to record that failure by the heads of the Temporary Special Commissions to submit within a specified time limit, but not later than six months later. [[The list of committees should be entered because it is not known which has been specifically drawn to general conclusions]] One. The other one. I would like to record here that the lack of control on the part of the Supreme Council’s Head, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Vas - Litvina, on which part 5 of the second part of article 88 lays down the responsibility of organizing the work of the Supreme Council apparatus, which only one has the right to demand and facilitate the work of the commissions. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like you to review your attitude towards working with the Interim Investigation Commissions. And that can be done if we adopt the law now. So let's unblock this position that the President is blocking deafly. In fact, the work of the commission of inquiry, you know, is blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u139	Yes, please. Should we put it to a vote or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u140	The committee did not support it, rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u141	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 4 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:23:29]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Yes, then amendment 5. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the amendment to the fifth is precisely what the Supreme Council ruled in its Rules: the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, within a week's time limit, to ensure the implementation by the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of decisions to impose on it the responsibility for the technical, organisational and information provision of temporary special and follow-up committees, concerning those committees on which this decision has not been carried out. The other one. Ask the President to establish a conciliatory group to prepare for the Supreme Council's consideration of the draft Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions and show that this law cannot be blocked further. For a period prior to the adoption and entry into force of the Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions, provision should be made for the order of work of draft legislative acts and materials containing legislative proposals for procedural duties, legislative initiatives, apparatus units, a head of apparatus, committee heads or committees, a committee to be listed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u143	The committee did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u144	I'm voting for Amendment 5 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:25:10]] For-64 Correction not accepted. Amendment number 7 Yuri Karmazin. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, part three is proposed to me in the seventh amendment to read: "Controlling the implementation of this decree on sub-paragraphs 2 and sub-paragraph 2, paragraph 2.1. of Part 2 to the Committee on Legal Policy; 3.2, paragraphs 2.2. to 2.3 of Part 2 to the Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, so that they can monitor the implementation of this decree and predict that there will be more than one Committee on Rules. Because you can see that according to the text on the right propositions that really apply to the improvement of this work, and they're going to be made by commissions. What will you continue to do? Because this decision does not solve any problems. I'm still asking, despite political engagement, Mr. Matthew and his committee to listen to common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u146	Thank you. The committee considered your proposal and did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u147	I'm betting on the vote for amendment number seven, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:26:47]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Amendment eight. Boris Bespallian, are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Amendment nine, Teeth. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Then we vote. Dear colleagues, we have passed, the amendments have been considered by all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u148	The offer to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u149	I am voting on the approval of the draft regulation as a decision on how to organize the activities of temporary special and investigative commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been finalized. Registration number 3715. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:27:33]] For 106 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? None. It's a bill. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u150	Once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address my distinguished colleagues. We've created 34 temporary investigators and special commissions, 34, I repeat. They all need adequate material and technology. Underneath all of them, the means of communication, car transport, and so forth, most of them. If you want this to continue to cost the budget of Ukraine, so that we still don't control the work of temporary special commissions and commissions of inquiry, and they were working at all ineffectively, then I think the decision of then could not be as if we didn't take this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, obviously, we will listen to the position of head of the committee and return to the consideration of the matter, apparently at the next session. Is that what I'm saying? Dear colleagues, we have a chapter on the Ratification Question. With the second reading, we've completed the bill to consider the issue of ratification. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on cooperation in the field of work and employment is being announced for consideration. The relevant conclusions of the committee are. Are there any questions? You don't? Then I place my vote of approval. One minute, then please, I asked you to sign up. Then I ask the minister to the rostrum. Sign up for a question, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u152	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Citizens who migrate within the framework of this Agreement are subject to the same conditions of remuneration and work as citizens of the country of residence, as well as the social guarantees provided for in that State's legislation. They will also enjoy the same rights and protection as citizens of that State regarding health and safety at work. It should be noted in particular that this Agreement does not violate the obligations of Ukraine and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya arising from their international contractual instruments made with other nations. And the adoption of this law by Ukraine does not change current legislation or require the adoption of new laws by Ukraine. And the implementation of this Treaty does not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Please support the prescribed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u153	Questions. Enrolled, Your Honor? On the board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Yetenko will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u154	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Mr. Minister, you realize that just as in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, as in other countries, there have been cases of violations of Ukrainian citizens' rights in the field of employment, because there have been many cases, especially in human trafficking. How do you plan to do what precautions to protect the interests of our people? In particular, I can see that in the third article, where job offers contain information. But where would diplomatic institutions abroad be able to track the fate of every worker to protect the interests of every citizen, such as the United States or other civilized countries? I've never seen such warnings. Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Well, what I'd like to say is that the adoption of this law, I've already said, is that it helps citizens who migrate within this agreement, Ukrainian citizens, will enjoy the same rights as citizens of the country of residence. And that increases social protection. Moreover, the signing of such a treaty provides a legal basis for protecting the interests of our citizens. Moreover, the agreement defines the state institutions that directly interact under this agreement. On the Ukrainian side, it's the State Employment Centre of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and from the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, it's the Department of Labour and Employment. And I'd also like to emphasize. This is a question: Will you please tell me, if this agreement is not available, whether there will be a legal basis for protecting the rights and interests of our citizens? It won't. That's why we put forward today a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u156	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u157	Fucking Communist faction. Our faction will support this treaty, ratification. But I have a question that our faction has raised repeatedly: what will your ministry do in order to protect our citizens who work in other countries? About seven million of our citizens are working abroad today, where their rights are being violated, many of them are being disabled, others are even killing them abroad. So I have this question: what is being done by the Ministry and the government as a whole to protect our citizens, the legal and labour rights and their rights in the field of work, your ministry and the Cabinet as a whole? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u158	Thank you for asking. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I wouldn't use a figure like seven million. Because these evaluation data that our ministry does, it gives a figure, well, at least that's three times less. This time. Secondly, we are now actively engaged in a negotiation process with countries like Spain, you know, with Portugal a treaty has been signed, with Italy, with France, with countries where there are Ukrainian citizens. And the point is, we've sent our draft treaties to these countries, and now we're on diplomatic channels, we're getting some positions. Moreover, you know that today the countries where our citizens work are not very interested because they are today, working in those countries, filling other countries' pension funds. So if this country signs a contract with us, that is, our person acquires both pension rights and social security rights and other rights. It's a difficult process, but we're working on it. And I am convinced that we will still ensure that these agreements are signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u159	Thank you. Please sit down, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Oleg Alexiyovich, please. The thought of the committee. First Deputy Head of the Committee in Foreign Affairs, Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Cooperation in Work and Employment, and recommended it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This treaty was signed as it was said on October 14th last year. On the part of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister and on the part of Libya, the Deputy Secretary of the High People's Committee on Production. The adoption of this law is necessary in order to establish the validity of the said agreement, which defines the principles and forms of cooperation, the established rules that simplify the labour migration of citizens of both States for the purpose of carrying out the work of a temporary nature. Well, as important as that is, you've listened to the minister, because a lot of our citizens are working there, especially the medics, and this trend is going to be evolving, as it were. The implementation of the treaty does not require additional material or other expenses from the State budget of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on Social Policy and Work support the adoption of this law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear Colleagues, Viewing the Voting of Approval Ukraine's Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya on Cooperation in Work and Employment. Please vote. [[13:37:44]] For 347 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Adoption of the Amendment to Article 1 of the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons, which may be considered to be Excessively Injurious or to Have Non-Visual Effects, is announced for consideration. The reporter is the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. Is there a need to report this document? Please sign up for the questions. Who Is the Reporter of the Government? Anatoly Andriovich Dron, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Adoption of the Amendment to Article 1 of the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons, which may be considered to be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects. I would like to point out that Ukraine, at the time the Ukrainian RSR, participated in a UN conference that adopted the Convention along with three protocols to it. Our country was one of the first to sign this convention in 1981. Today, the Act regulates the application, imposes restrictions on the prohibition of conventional weapons such as weapons with undetected fragments, mines, booby traps and other devices, incendiary weapons, blinding laser weapons. [[This is protocol number one, three.]] [[Protocol 4]] Ukraine is a party to the convention and all the valid protocols before it. As of January 2004, 92 nations of the world are parties to the convention. With a view to developing and improving international humanitarian law on 21 December 2001, at the second conference to consider the operation of this convention, 66 States, including Ukraine, adopted a consensus amendment to article 1 of this document. The amendment provides for the extension of the scope of the convention and its existing protocols to conflicts of a non-international nature. The reason for such a move is the tendency to increase the number of armed conflicts within the national borders of the State. The amendment is aimed primarily at ensuring the personal safety of civilians who do not directly participate in such conflicts but most often fall victim to them. It should be noted that the new edition of article 1 of the Convention does not extend the effects of internal disturbances. On June 18, 2004, the amendment became effective. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account Ukraine's policy consistency in global disarmament and international security measures, and in view of the growing support of the Convention as an authoritative international legal instrument aimed at protecting civilians against the negative consequences of the use of conventional weapons by the U.S.S.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u163	Yes, thank you. Questions, please. Three minutes to ask. Yuri Carmazin. Put the name of the people’s deputies on the sign. Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine. Anichuk will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u164	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Mr. Deputy Minister, I would like to ask you, first of all, why aren't there any attachments that are referenced in this document? That's the first thing in this bill. And say, please, how do you understand, "except for internal disturbances and situations of internal tension that are not armed conflicts?" So what are these mines, booby traps, other devices that can be used? I didn't get it. I thought it was a good desire for all countries to limit themselves both from external application and from the internal application of such things. You know, it's very important, especially, that understanding what's going on in the Russian Federation in Chechnya, and we have, God forbid, some situation that might happen now, says again, God forbid. I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u165	Obviously it's about apps, protocols to the convention, of course they are. These are big documents, they've been filed, and every MP's ability to read them, as the entire convention certainly is. With regard to the proliferation of this convention, only armed conflicts have been identified by 66 signatories, and only armed conflicts are covered by the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u166	Vladimir Anishtuk, Communist faction, please. Then Vernigora, please have a question, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u167	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Anatoly Andryovich, I'm reading this very carefully, well if the word here is "selective," it's probably selective, so if right, they can selectively destroy either living force, or maybe a material part, I understand? So when there's armed conflict, let's say in Serbia, Bosnia, who's the weapon, who's in charge, who's the one who can destroy, who can't be selective. I think that this convention should not just be a convention, but some hard law in general about non-human weapons, but the names of them selective or not selective, whether they are atomic or hydrogen or which is the weapon of destruction or mass destruction. So which convention are we supporting anyway?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u168	Obviously, we'll come to a similar convention, but now it's about conventional weapons for the protection of civilians, so that civilians, not military, don't suffer from mines, traps, laser weapons and so on. That's what this is about. The amendment does not provide for application within national borders. This amendment is additional to what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u169	Thank you, Anatoly Andryovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee. Committee position. The word has the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Ivanovich Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u170	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people, I will bring you the essence of this amendment. In 49th year, the Convention was adopted, under which States committed themselves in international conflicts, not to use weapons, wherever the people who had nothing to do with hostilities were affected, was international in nature, among States. The amendment also proposes to extend to internal conflicts between the States of Kosovo, Chechnya. What kind of weapons are they? These are weapons, like balloon bombs. It strikes a man who has nothing to do with anything. In Kosovo, shells and bombs were used for enriched uranium. People suffer who had no relationship. There are other types of weapons. This Convention, therefore, proposes not to apply, and we commit ourselves not to apply it in internal conflicts. I would like to draw your attention to this: that we know that smart, progressive humanity and progressive policies are seeking to resolve issues that are disputed peacefully, but today there is still somewhere where war conflicts begin. Therefore, Ukraine is committed to ratifying the Convention so that people who have nothing to do are not harmed or injured. It's from the humane motives. We have considered the Committee and believe that this Convention must be ratified from humane motives, and I call upon you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u171	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Adoption of the Amendment to Article One Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects. Registration number 0196. Please vote. [[13:48:31]] For 350. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two draft ratification laws that we've been considering, but they haven't found support in the session room. The government offered to review them. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be made in order for us to begin consideration. Each and every one of them. That's why I'm voting. Who's to go back to the previously unsupported draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Registration number 0163. Please vote. We're going to vote now. The vote is taken. One minute, there's a vote. [[13:49:42]] For 280 Copy that. For reasons, please Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u172	I don't thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for being motivated after the vote. And I wanted to say that the issue of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank is not as simple as some would think. There is no time to argue. So it's very simplified. It is proposed to borrow $195 million to secure the final unjust distribution of agricultural land between its citizens in Ukraine. So instead of legislatively improving the mechanisms for all peasants to be allocated to the land, including teachers, medical professionals, cultural workers, returnees, forced displaced persons from the Chernobyl area, we are invited to close our eyes on the presence of millions of rural people who have lost their land and quickly consolidate this injustice. I'm not saying any more that this loan should then be returned at the expense of all citizens of Ukraine, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a motion for an inadmissibility order. Let's do it now. The motives are before the vote, probably motive. Honorable fellow workers! Dear colleagues, we've been looking at this bill, we've been discussing, you know the essence of this document. But there is a draft decree on the inadmissibility of Yuri Karmazin. Please let Yuri Karmazin's microphone justify the inadmissibility of the bill. But no, and if we vote against it, why discuss it? Do you understand? Let's probably figure it out first. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! This question is so complicated that even after this unacceptable bill was introduced, I've studied it now, and I see that on the one hand it would be good for Ukraine to get credit under one percent of everything, and on the other hand, without creating transparent conditions, it would be very dangerous. So I would like, even if this bill is adopted today, to create absolutely transparent conditions for this, because in the 2004 State Budget, the need for funding targeted agro-industrial support programmes is only 30 to 50 percent. And that's why. But I can't help but agree with the arguments that my colleague Rephat Chubarov just said. They make sense, and of course they should also be considered. So it seems to me that before this bill we should make a fuse that should be used together with other changes, including legislation, including the Earth Code that we have here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would therefore consider the entry into force of this law to be the time - first of January 2005. That would be perfectly reasonable. I mean, to predict or at the same time to adopt the other normative acts that we have, and they're sitting on the Committee on Land Resources and other committees today. So I think that's what's happened, and a lot of questions about this law, and the public today are involved, that this is injustice so far, so far, it is, as Rephat Chubarov has said. That's the first one. And second of all. Back at the former heads of the State Commission, there were, there were already trances available, and there was no clear information on their use. And so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my proposal is one thing. I'm not going to ask you to put a question to the vote on the inadmissibility, I'm just asking you to work out this project so that, if the money is allocated at one percent, they could not go anywhere, but only used for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u175	So you're filming your draft inadmissibility order, right? Okay, thanks. But we can either ratify or not ratify this document. Dear colleagues, let us consult, perhaps this way: let us write down for a minute five, discuss with motive, and we have already had our reports on this subject, well, the arguments have already been made. Well, we've looked at it twice, you know. We continue to work for 15 minutes if there is no objection. Let's just write it down for a minute, five minutes they'll come out, five men will come out, and then we'll figure it out. Where are they written? On the board, please highlight those who sign up for the talk. Well, we agree, five minutes then, right? Yuri Carmazin, you've already taken advantage of your speech, haven't you? Ivan Hare, please. What difference does it make? From the rostrum or here--what difference does it make, dear colleagues? Please. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich. Hare. Assad microphone, please. Well, let's see, dear colleagues, how many more documents do we have? And all of you insist that everyone be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I just wanted to give you all the information that this loan has long been included in the budget. When the budget was formed, by the way, it's not the first year it's counted, it's where it's going to be paid by Ukraine. I think it's very convenient for Ukraine to have a loan, and we should have voted a long time ago. There are many references to this subject at the meetings. But I'm just going to let you know that it's included in the budget, so you don't have to change the budget for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u177	Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine," please. Turn on Roman Tach.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u178	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I support the opinion and my colleague Assadchev, clearly we must accept it and clearly ratify it. But there is one very serious observation. The ratification of this law would be complex with the adoption of two laws: the State Land cadastre and registration. State registration of real estate rights. So I suggested that we ratify today, and soon before this session is over, we should adopt these two laws. So I would ask you to vote in favour today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u179	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Anatoly Orzhachowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u180	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u181	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. I wonder why the next time, despite the existence of the Rules, we are considering the matter. It's probably convenient, first of all, for government officials. The Communist faction will not vote for the bill, as we have heard it many times. about similar government agreements and we know that each time these loans need to be returned to our citizens. This is today a loop on the neck of the nation and all of our Ukrainian people. We today have no land cadastre law, no land price law in Ukraine, and we are making another attempt to hold our people responsible for all of this. I support that the village needs to be supported, but it needs not so much to be supported, not because of the loan, but because of the well-balanced state financial policy. I therefore propose not to vote in favour of ratification, because it is needed primarily by officials. We're saving.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u182	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u183	Thank you. First of all, we need to stress, of course, that it has a timely approach to adopting bills and turning them into laws, which is ratification. So, really, the undetermined price of land, there is no Land cadastre law. By the way, last time the vote was primarily about this. Although I understand it clearly, I think most people in the room understand that this loan is not the worst of government acquisitions. Because the government has acquired loans that not only to our children but also to our grandchildren. But in this situation, it's probably one of those loans that will really help the peasants, because it makes it easier to get documents to land. So I think that if we make the assumption that this session will be voted on above-mentioned land cadastre laws and land prices, then this bill can be ratified today. Because otherwise we're going to ratify it, but it's not going to work again, just like the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u184	Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u185	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Note the number of times this issue has been brought up for ratification. The bottom line is that 195 million dollars is more than a billion dollars, and we're assigning them to officials for demand. Look at this. 70 million dollars goes to just different consultants. A considerable amount of money goes to computers, offices. Already, structures are in place today, waiting for this loan, which will earn the right amount of money tomorrow. You remember, we were calculating that one document on land ownership would cost between $600 and $800. You'll see how much money is being spent today. Who will hand them over? I'm surprised today by the factions when so many times they didn't vote for the bill. Nothing's changed here, and now there's a kind of insight that let's vote and throw it in, bury it in the ground. You can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u186	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken out. Now I'm voting on the committee's proposal. May I have your attention, please? On the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement as a draft of state-owned land rights acts in rural areas and the development of a cadastre system between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0163. Please vote. [[14:01:25]] For 290 Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? We have another document. The factions? Please, by the factions. Be patient, please. "Our Ukraine" is 86. "Ukraine" is 57. The Communist faction is 0. SDPU(o)-38. "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government" - 1. "Poor Ukraine" is 29. The people's agrarian party is 20. SPT is 0. Block Timoshenko - 8. "Soyuz" is 17. NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 16. Center - 12. Postfaction is 6. Dear colleagues, there is another project. I'm voting for a return to the previously unsupported draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement, the project "Ukraine - Development through the Internet" between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. [[14:02:35]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we still have 10 minutes, let's work, 15 more precisely. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the draft of the Law on National Compulsory Social Health Insurance, a great law. Let's listen to the reporters now, and then we'll take a break. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, let's at least make up for a little bit of time. Lilia Grigorovitch is a national MP, please. Prepare Shurmi. Here's the truth we have about the inadmissibility, well, let's be clear. Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Without a doubt, every country’s health system does not satisfy every country in the world if it looks at its final outcome. It's an axiom because unfortunately, as long as we don't protect our health, there comes a time or a limit when it's exhausted. Nevertheless, I will not open up any extraordinary sensation when I say that Ukraine’s health system does not satisfy everyone in our country and that it is, indeed, the worst in Europe. An explanation of why. Because the 49th article of the Constitution, which, on the one hand, regulates free health care in public and municipal institutions, unfortunately does not provide such a possibility. Because let's see what health funding we have: 3 percent of the gross domestic product, 3.1 percent, at best 3.2 percent of GDP, when in Europe it's 6, 8, and ideally it has 10 percent of the gross domestic product. Of course, if we wrote in the 49th article of funding within the budget range, of course that would be fair. But in view of the fact that the 49th article is actually working dishonestly with our voters, we have the result that instead of 50 million, there are barely more than 47 in Ukraine. I would like to point out that, among the 2.5 million who have died in the last 13 years, more than 20 percent of deaths are caused by inaccessibility, or people simply have not reached health care facilities. The reason for this is that people know that they can't afford to be helped, or they know that our current medical care is essentially extremely inadequate and, let's say, inaccessible. What can be done to reform the health system? A well - known course, adopted, tested, supported in Europe, is a compulsory national health insurance. More than 100 years ago, the Chancellor of Germany, Bismarck, introduced him to his country. And I assure you, dear friends, that the monuments across Germany stand not primarily because it was chancellor, but primarily because it introduced a sufficiently effective social standard, which was then used and used successfully throughout Europe. I want to point out that over the course of 13 years or at least the last 10 years, we've been trying in Parliament to make this bill simply a law that works. Why did it not work? Let's say in 1995-1996 it didn't work because the left side of Parliament wanted everything to be the same. Dear friends, if we continue to maintain that position, let us ask, and on whose conscience, at least if not 2.5 million, let us ask, whose conscientious part of the people who simply failed or failed to receive medical assistance? Today, the adoption of this law has come up with versions that can be called fear or phobia. "Phobia" in medical terminology is exactly how it's translated. The phobia that they're going to steal, the phobia that's going to be high on the payroll fund and so on. Dear friends, I would like to point out that the proposed bill, which is sponsored by Franchuk, Bogatyrov and Grigorovich, does not exactly offer the burden on the pay-for-work fund, is the most likely option to make medical care available to the public, to determine the list of medical services. The Tax Act, which will be adopted annually by Parliament, will regulate both taxation and the list of medical services, and so on. I, my dear friends, am convinced today that we are standing on the threshold or not of the most social and humanitarian decision, which is obviously a test for all of us national MPs. Whether we are prepared to fulfill our constitutional obligation. I want to write it down literally for the rest. The World Bank for Reconstruction and Development says that in a country where more than 400,000 die each year. People, more than that, and in the first grade, only 5-7 percent of healthy children, there's no efficient business in general, no humanitarian development. It is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, there is a question for Stephen’s lily. Please sign up for three minutes. On the board, please. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u189	Lilia Stepanovna, a question of this nature. Clearly, there are good intentions to reform our health care system. But there is now a system of budgetary financing for health care. And by adopting this law without reforming this system, will it really be a result, rather than just an extra burden on tax payers without any particular effect on the health of the population?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor. You just asked me what I regret not being able to say in a five - minute speech. We have heard 13 years of reform of the health system, but I want to tell you that we have not made progress in reform. There was no reform yet. Why? Because there was no launch mechanism. After all, if you have carefully read the proposed bill, it will only take effect in 2006. Until then, we will have to implement a health - care reform program that also provides for legal status for medical institutions that provide for the establishment of a family doctor’s institution, that is, until then this bill will force us to carry out the program. With regard to extra effort, dear friends. In a society that is recognised as regressive, which, according to the World Bank’s analysis of reconstruction and development in general, has a high mortality rate and a very low quality of the nation’s health, the issue of taxation, I find it unethical. Let's lower taxes in every way possible, let's be a country with the lowest taxes in the world and in Europe, but let's give health care what's in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u191	Olga Hinzburg, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u192	Communist faction, 161 constituency. Dear reporter, I have a question for you. I refer to the left - hand category that would like to have medical care, as before, with the Soviet authorities. That's what I'm talking about. But I have a question for you under your law. Here you write that insurance is compulsory for whom? For employers, for employees, for students, for students. Authorities of local self - government for disabled persons Where will these funds be used to insure students, for example? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u193	Thank you for asking. The question is given in specific categories. The fact is that you and I, as opposition forces, know very well that even in this year's budget there are funds that could be used effectively. And it's the introduction of such a bill -- it's an opportunity to get a lot of money out of the shadows that don't just walk, I'm not even afraid to say, in the health system, and that doesn't even affect the profitability or the effectiveness of health protection itself. How can these pocket calculations improve equipment or improve the physical health status of health care? Given that, of course, the working population is the employers, the unemployed -- the pension fund, for children under 18 years of age, and so on. It's all logical, it's going to make everyone, all of these statesmen see what there is, think about it, and use every penny in a cost-effective way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u194	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Time's up, please sit down. What about the committee? Well, please. It's very short. Vernigora. Now, Lilia Stepanovna. It's after lunch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u195	Dear Lilia Stepanovna, I asked you a question on the committee: What prevents us from creating 586 new offices in Ukraine, some of the functions of your proposed health insurance to commit the Fund to temporary loss of employment? These are completely equivalent funds, and you don't have to spend all the money on these 600 new offices. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u196	You know, this is an interesting version. But I think, first of all, about the nation's concept of public health care and, finally, the reform of the sector that hasn't happened in 13 years. Maybe it's a version, and it's a possible option, but in a country that's literally been excluded from the FATF lists a few months ago, state control and some centralized option with parliamentary control every year: both with respect to taxation and with regard to the list of services, as for me, is simply essential.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u197	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's listen to one more project - and take a break then, shall we? Igor Mikhailovich Shurma has the floor. And then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u198	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear colleagues, that if we raise the issue of social laws, there is no longer room for consideration in this more important law room, since each of the 450 deputies in their pre-election programmes in all their meetings with their constituents put the problem of health care first. The quality of medical services is not satisfactory. And the second plane. The level of funding of the health care system itself is also unsatisfactory. What is the solution? If you return to the figures, you will need more than 18.5 billion dollars to finance your health. The budget for this year is 8.5 billion. Not that one of the government officials refused to give more money, but that money could no longer be paid. The question is, Where can we get the funds that could make health care fully financed? I would like to remind you that in 1998 the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a basic law on compulsory government social insurance. Thereafter, laws were passed to ensure funding. the existence of work-related insurance, i.e. the payment of disability benefits, specific leave for sanatorium treatment, insurance for industrial accidents and occupational diseases, pension insurance, unemployment insurance. There's only one law left to pass - the mandatory government social insurance. Before the presidential election, everyone understands that the bill is more political. I can't explain to others why he wasn't voted in the last session. I have every right to say that this has been translated into a political plane, because even if you take those factions that didn't vote, the analysis is at the top. Five deputies from the "Our Ukraine" bloc who are experts in this matter -- doctors and people with medical education -- voted in favour of this bill. However, their colleagues did not vote in favour of the bill, which was very strange, since the very idea of social health insurance was put out in the prime ministership of Viktor Yushchenk. The fact that the bill was drafted by Igor Francchuk gave us reason to say that the bill was politically unacceptable. The drafters went on. It has been proposed to co-authorate the "Regions" of Raisi Bogatirirov and Lilia Grigorovich of "Our Ukraine" in order to avoid political subterfuge. Today, this bill requires a decision. And I would like to point out that he's not wearing today, how social it is, how much this law is more financial. Because in order to ensure the proper financing of health care facilities and the system, we need to start reforming our own funding system. Today, I can tell you one more fact. In our efforts to publish in the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" all those who say they want to reform health and the green button hasn't pressed, they haven't voted for more than six months. The fact that the bill is being tabled at a recess today, I see it as an attempt once again not to vote. Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litwin, I address you. If I'm wrong about this bill being divided by a break, I'd like to ask you for the following thing. In order for me not to feel that this has been done on a special occasion, I will follow your lead. If you don't vote for this bill, I have every right to believe that it is deliberately put to rest. In order for the MPs not to be bothered by the bill to vote, the MPs, the authors of the bill: Shurma, Suhi and Kuzmenko film it in favour of the bill by Igor Francchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-15-m0.u199	Dear colleague! I was going to say, right now, that you don't need to blackmail the Supreme Council, I wanted to make sure that the bill was considered. That's the first one. And the others. It's a good thing you took it off, I wouldn't, in principle, vote for this bill, and you don't have to blackmail me like you're trying to do. I want to tell you, my dear colleague, that you're not running the whole state yet, even though you're pretending to be in charge. Let us no longer resort to blackmail. [[Applause]] You want it as good as ever. It may be necessary to build up some decency and act in such orderly positions. I announce a recess in this matter. The morning session is closed. Break till 4:00. Let us continue to consider this bill.
