ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:46]] Registered -437 A total of 437 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is Boris Pavlovich Andresyuk’s birthday. Let's welcome him. Dear colleagues, let's welcome Alexander Alexander Moroz, on which today is not just a birthday, but a wedding date, a 60-year-old. [[Applause]] The significance of the moment is that, according to the metrics, Alexander Aleksandrovich appeared in the world on February 29. That is, he has a perfectly legitimate opportunity to celebrate this solemn event twice, which is true, once every four years. I hope we have 29 numbers to welcome Alexander Alexandrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, you have an appointment today. Out of procedure, three minutes, please sign in. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Stanislav Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u3	Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u4	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on behalf of the faction, I join those words you said today on the occasion of Alexander Alexandrovich's greeting, thank you. And I wanted to ask you one more. We on the Conciliation Council asked all the MPs and factions on behalf of the Socialists, other factions to be included today in the agenda and the debate on information on the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech of Mikola Tomenka on the situation surrounding the "Village News." Order No. 5135, introduced by Sitnik, Olijnik, Nikolaynek and so forth. In this regard, I would ask that we vote on it, and tomorrow, according to this decree. This information was heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u5	I ask the Secretariat to give me this document. Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u7	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We've looked at the agenda that we've been given today, and after voting on the draft decrees for the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission, we see the issue of making an oath with newly appointed members of the CWC. But among those newly appointed members of the CLTC there are two Ukrainian national deputies who are not entitled under the Constitution to reconcile the position of Ukrainian national deputy with another position in the authorities of the State. We would, however, ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to explain whether these national MPs have filed an application for the termination of their duties as Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u9	Yes, dear fellows, the word is Anatoly Nostawiko, a faction of Communists. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u11	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I believe that we have a negative practice in the Supreme Council when we receive a daily schedule before the beginning of the session. We have a computer network, why don't we use it? He's not there at 8:00 last night. He's not there at 8:00 this morning. Of course, the national MPs among us are such that they do not care what issues are being considered. They'll be told from the Cabinet of Ministers, why vote. But there are national deputies who are preparing for the meeting. Therefore, I request that the Secretariat be instructed to place the day’s work on the computer network at the proper time after agreement has been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. I want to give Roman the cook an answer. We agreed this way, and I went to our colleagues who became members of the CLTC, and they promised that after the oath was made, they would write statements after they came into force legally. And I'm going to go to the Regulatory Committee on that. As far as the schedule of meetings is concerned, you are absolutely right: this is not our underwork, the Presidency and the Secretariat. We agreed with Adam Ivanovich that he would directly control the schedule of meetings so that no documents would be filed or deleted on his own. And this document will be posted on the site as soon as it's agreed, so that you can get to know each other and prepare in advance for the meeting. Time's up, I can't give Francis my word. The draft Ordinance on the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission is announced for consideration. Alexander the Road, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u14	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, the President of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, shall rule on the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Chupachina Alexander Mikhailovich and Mageri Andrija Josephovich A proper consideration of these candidates took place yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. The Committee's conclusion is positive, which is what we're asking you to consider and support the President's application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u15	All right, have a seat, please. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government yesterday, February 18, at its meeting, discussed draft decrees made by the President of Ukraine for the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of Chupachin and Mr. Mageri. The committee did not take a decision of support or non-support, as did the previous 10 candidates, the 12 candidates that were considered in the Supreme Council, but only decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposals made by the President of Ukraine for the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission, the candidature of Chupahin Alexandr Mihajlovich and Mageri Andrija Josephovich. In doing so, the committee notes the good news that these candidates were in line with the opposition factions, the faction of the Socialist Party and our Ukraine. We propose, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to put into discussion the procedure that was previously adopted by the Supreme Council when we considered the candidates for the appointment of the members of the Central Electoral Commission the day before yesterday. To let people answer questions and vote on each candidate separately. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u17	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, attends the podium of Chupahin Alexander Mikhailovich. Alexander Mikhailovich, please sign up for the candidate's question. Please put the names on the sign-up table, the national MPs. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski, Socialist faction. Alexander Mikhailovich, I know you as a decent, extremely honest man, an MP in the past, who, as it were, was only good to hear. Working as Secretary of the Defence Commission, during your parliamentary office, you were extremely principled there. All you'd like to do is wish for the same principle after we vote for you and you become a member of the CBC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u20	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u21	Tell me, please, what is your party membership and how much do you appreciate the situation, what is partying for a member of the CIA, and will this, in any way, interfere with your activities for you and your colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u22	I have been a member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine since 1991. Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission provides that members of the Central Electoral Commission shall, for the duration of their term of office, suspend their membership in parties. This requirement will be endured strictly by me and, let us say, my membership of the previous Socialist Party of Ukraine will in no way affect the decision-making of the Central Electoral Commission. You can be sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u23	Sokirko Mikola. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u24	Please give the floor to Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u25	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Alexander Mikhajlovich, I know you through work together, and nothing but positive can be said while working in Parliament. But I have a question. Please tell us something today we haven't been given what it took for these posts: no declarations, I mean, and I don't see yours, and Mr. Magary's declaration doesn't show in today's. Please tell me there's more to it, but I haven't got it yet. Say, please, as your opinion: Do you need to make ballot boxes transparent, such as to exclude watching, forging and everything else, the previous vote, what was allowed before, and why were you no doubt a witness? Give a qualified opinion, and how you will implement, as you suggest, transparency in the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u26	I think it's absolutely necessary. And in some of my proposals for draft laws concerning the election of Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of local councils and the All-Ukrainian referendums, etc., they were reflected. I think it will only contribute to the transparency of all electoral processes. If the Ukrainian National Deputies agree, I think this will be reflected in the relevant laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u27	Valentin Josephovich Matthew, a faction of Communists. Please give the floor to Salamatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u28	Yuri Salamatin is a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikhailovich, the electoral process will begin with the identification of candidates for the President. The applicant must collect 1 million signatures for his support. The previous election campaign indicated that 3.5 of the 15 applicants had signed. That's exactly how many voters voted for them, but 10 of them were given 1-3 percent of the voter votes compared to the signatures. How do you appreciate this very interesting situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u30	The point is, according to the Ukrainian citizen's law, he has the right to sign for the support of 10-15 candidates or one, as he sees fit. But I understand what you mean. We are all present in this room well aware of the gathering of signatures in some cases. That sometimes it goes, well, it's an honest fake. Therefore, this procedure needs to be improved. How it's reflected in the law, it's ours with you, I think, in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u31	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Please tell me that you do not have a legal education from your personal HR card. Will you gain it or do you feel that you need it or not? Do you think a member of the CLTC should have such a legal education? Is it enough of your experience to be here as a national deputy to Ukraine’s second vocation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u33	I think it's never too late to get an education. And in the year 94, I even took the first course of the Kharkiv Law Academy, but the exercise of parliamentary powers didn't give me the opportunity to finish my studies. As for my own experience. Since the 1990s, I have taken part in all the electoral campaigns, starting with the local elections, ending with all-U.S. referendums, both the candidate for the election and the organizer of the electoral processes, as well as the directly-designed bills and legislative proposals relating to elections in general and national deputies and local elections, and the election of the President of Ukraine. I've had enough experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u34	Yes, thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich, your time is up. Have a seat, please. Magera Andriy Josephovich. What's the procedure? Now they're being distributed, these documents are being distributed, they're being reproduced. Please, Andrew Josephovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for Andrew Josephovich. Yes, on the board, please. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u35	Dear Andrew Josephovich, the CEVC is a very interesting body which I think is somewhat like the work of our famous Constitutional Court. The last decision of the Constitutional Court when one plus one is equal to one, at least it was characterized by what we know which of the judges voted on. How do you feel about the offer that CBC also has this transparency in its work, and in the case of certain collegiates, we know it in the face of our heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. In my opinion, the members of the Central Electoral Commission should act in strict compliance with the law of Ukraine, and any legislative will expressed in the law should be carried out without reservation by members of the Central Electoral Commission. If the only legislative body makes such a decision, surely we will do so in the event of my appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u37	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u38	Dear Andrey Josifovich, please tell me you're working as an assistant consultant to the People's Deputy today. Please tell me what the MP is. If it's possible, it's a faction. And one last moment. As you see it, the work of the CIA will also begin to be blocked by coming around your table. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u39	No, it's not a secret. It's about the first question. I'm an assistant consultant to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zwani David Vazhajevich, is a faction of "Our Ukraine." Regarding the ability to block the Central Electoral Commission. I think we're all living in time, we've been learning democracy for ten years. I think all matters of great desire can be resolved in a civilized way, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with their own conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u40	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u41	Fucking Communist faction. We've already learned the aide of which national MP you are. I wonder how much partying you have, which party you support, and how you will carry out your duties in the CLTC, with education such as law school. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u42	To this day I am neither a member nor a member of any political party. Of course, I may have certain preferences. I mean, in this case, maybe I'm doing two shows, first as a citizen of Ukraine, secondly as a candidate for the Central Electoral Commission. If I tell you what my political preferences are, it can be considered as a kind of pressure, maybe national MPs and so on. So I don't want to potentially violate the anti-corruption law for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u43	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u44	The faction has decided to support your candidacy. But I do have that question. You represent the faction "Our Ukraine," which is constantly talking about publicity, openness, justice. Do you support such a faction proposal and put it into practice as openness in the work of all levels of electoral commissions, particularly those of business? At the end of the vote, we would like a representative from each party to be able to take a copy of the protocol that will be signed by all the district commissions. All the way to the top. Then no one will be able to talk about falsification, counterfeiting, or anything else. That's what we're saying, given the experience of the parliamentary struggle in the missed elections of the Agrarian Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u45	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. I think you have a reasonable proposal and, in a sense, an active electoral legislation in this context provides for the right of members of the electoral boards to consult the committee's minutes, to get a copy of this protocol. But I am deeply convinced and I share your concern that these issues need to be expanded in detail, that is, do everything possible to ensure that there are no grounds for falsification or any other violation of electoral legislation. We have to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u46	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u47	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Andrew Josephovich, the faction has been determined to support you. Of course, you are a young, promising person, and beyond, like you, the future. I'd like to ask this question as a future member of the electorate: please tell me, do you think it's appropriate to pick two or three rows of heads of district election committees who are practically doing the will of authority to forge elections, or do you need to rotate them? Because I have many examples of my comrades, which are especially the cause of all this incompetence, that is, the falsification of elections. I could give an example in the region of Czernovetsec. The question is, is it necessary to rotate the heads of the District Election Commissions, as you might say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u48	I think your proposal makes sense, and I think with regard to rotation, we're going to have to solve this issue in the legislative order. My opinion, as a potential member of the Central Electoral Commission, I think we can support this here and work on it, including through the introduction of relevant bills and through appropriate subjects, through the national deputies of Ukraine. I support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Andre Josephovich. Time's up, please sit down. Dear colleagues, shall we vote if there is no objection? I'm putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission, Chupahin Alexander Mihajlovich. Registration No. 5151. Vote please! [[10:27:47]] For 396 Decision taken. I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Mager Andrija Josephovich. Registration No. 5153. Vote please! [[10:28:21]] For 410 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We have appointed all the members of the Central Electoral Commission and, in accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, the members of the commission before taking office make an oath at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u50	I, Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving issues that are part of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u51	Yes. Welcome. Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Prepare Donchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u52	I, Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine of a non-party position, to be objective in resolving issues that are part of the commission's knowledge, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u53	Yes. Welcome, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich is invited to the rostrum before taking an oath. Prepare Zavalevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u54	I, Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich, have sworn to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-party position, to be objective in resolving the issues that belong to the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u55	Welcome, Yuri Grigorovich, you. To make an oath to the rostrum, Zavalevska Valentina Alexandrovna is invited. Get ready for Platinum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u56	I, Zavalevska Valentina Alexandrovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving the issues that belong to the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u57	Welcome, Valentina Alexandrovna. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Platinum Volodymyr Mihajlovich is invited. Prepare the Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u58	I, Plaštinsky Volodymyr Mihajlovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving the issues that belong to the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u59	Welcome, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you. Put the document back here. Kachur Igor Anatoliyovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u60	I, Kachure Igor Anatoliyovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving the issues that belong to the commission, to ensure implementation, to protect the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u61	Welcome, Igor Anatolyovich, you. Before taking an oath on the rostrum, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u62	I, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving issues that are part of the commission's knowledge, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens. And for the stenogram. I am in charge of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Acts can be both written and oral. Consider this my official statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u63	Prince Ruslan Petrovich is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u64	I, Knazevitch Ruslan Petrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-party position, to be objective in resolving issues that belong to the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u65	Yes, welcome, Ruslan Petrovich, you. To make an oath to the rostrum, Hendowski Mikhailo Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u66	I, Okendovsky Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving issues that are part of the commission's knowledge, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u67	Yes, welcome, Mikhail Volodymyrovich. Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich is invited to take an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u68	I, Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving the issues that are part of the commission's knowledge, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u69	Welcome to Bronislav Stanislavovich. Chupahin Alexander Mikhailovich is invited to the rostrum before taking an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u70	I, Chupahin Alexander Mihajlovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-partisan position, to be objective in resolving issues that are part of the commission's knowledge, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u71	Welcome, Alexander Mikhailovich, you. To make an oath to the rostrum, Magera Andriy Josephovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u72	I, Magera Andriy Josephovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-party position, to be objective in resolving matters that are part of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u73	Welcome, Andrew Josephovich, you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us welcome the newly elected members of the Central Electoral Commission and wish them to bear their high responsibilities and loyal service to the interests of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Constantine Mercury Sitnik. Who's with the procedure? Dear colleagues, we have a lot of questions, let's work hard. Gotta get out of here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support the proposal that tomorrow we hear the question of putting in order the day-to-day question of the protection of the Force News. We've passed on the draft ruling yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on information to the Committee on Freedom of Speech and information on the situation surrounding the newspaper "The Village News". Registration number 5135. Please vote. [[10:39:13]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 77, the Ukraine is 6, the Communist faction is 59, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine is 1, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is 0, the People's Government is 0, the SPI is 20, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 19, the Democratic Initiative is 0, the Agrarian Party is 2, the People's Choice is 0, the National Choice is 0, the NDP is 2, the Postfaction is 7. [[united]] [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, dear colleagues, that's the end of the conversation. It's being announced. Rudzkowski, we've already considered this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for your word. I am grateful to those national deputies who have supported it, but I would like to draw the attention of all of Ukraine's listeners that the agrarian party has only given two votes, i.e. it has not supported the consideration of the closure of the "Villages" in the Supreme Council. I ask you to put it again, because some of the deputies and our Ukraine and others have not been able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u77	The draft Government Day in March 2004 on pension insurance and pension reform is announced for consideration. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! With great hope, millions of Ukrainian pensioners were awaiting pension reform. Sadly, a New Year’s gift to them instead of a pension reform has become a pension abuse. Ukrainian citizens expected a pension reform, first of all, to see the link between their pensions, salaries and internships. It's different. Get and see social justice in pension insurance. And third. In a growing economy, they looked forward to an increase in pension insurance. Sadly, neither the first nor the second nor the third received them. The pension for the new pension system is never linked to the salary. For the size of the pensions of Ukrainian pensioners, the wage in the economy is fixed. And here, unfortunately, the government made a decision and by its own free will violated the law, reducing the pension base by 70 dollars. It's different. I'd like to draw attention to those who are yelling, whose hands you voted in favour of discriminatory pension systems, which the Ukrainian society is divided into caste: the absolute majority of pensioners who receive pensions according to one standard, and the caste of the untouchables, for which the pension is now 13,000 dollars. And we have no right to keep quiet about this situation, because, for example, a category of civil servants gets a 90 percent pension, the rest of the pensioners get 1 percent of the job. In a discriminatory position, there are still science and technology workers, for whom it seems to be the same standards of pension insurance, and in fact, because different categories are defined by different sources, there is a situation that one part will receive one pension exchange, and the other part is deprived of the right. And the third thing. No one can explain the thing when the economy is growing and the pension is falling. In fact, in the last year, pensions have almost gone up, and more than that, they have gone down. Because inflation is the rate of increase in pensions. And taking into account the consumption patterns of low-income pensioners and the fact that the price increases for the food group have taken place to a greater extent, that means that the pension is falling under the conditions of the growing economy. We suggest that the issue of retirement be the subject of the government's Day. The other one. It's very important that the reporter on this issue is not the Pension Fund. Because it's not the Pension Fund that's making decisions about pension policy. The Pension Fund is a tool for implementing pension decisions. That's why the government has to report these issues, because it's shaping a pension policy. And the last. "Our Ukraine" insists that, together with the Government Day, the issues related to the Law on Non-State Pension Insurance and the Minimum Wages Act 2004 be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u79	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Peter Stepanovich, please take the seat of the committee. And we'll vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I would like to address you all today with one appeal, which is to do what we always do, and then when we vote in favour of a certain law, and then when we demand to consider a particular issue, including on Government Day, to be consistent, because Victor Mikhailovich is absolutely right in terms of the consequences of the law that was passed that began to take effect on January 1, 2004. But I warned you how the head of the committee, the faction of Communists warned that in this case the law couldn't pass, it would have exactly the same consequences that they had. Unfortunately, including "Our Ukraine" did not listen to this and voted by 97 of the 102 deputies voted in favour of this law. The same is true of the faction of socialists who voted in full for it. So once again, I would like to stress that, dear fellows, we need not have two truths when we vote, and then from the rostrum, we call for a review of the results of the vote, but there should be one. That's part of the information. Part two. Given that there is no more pressing question today than what is proposed, namely, pension reform, its consequences, and given that this relates to the fate of the absolute majority of pensioners of Ukraine, the committee, having considered this proposal carefully, has reached such a conclusion. First, to support the idea of holding such a government day with such an order of the day. Again, the more acute, the more painful question today is simply not in Ukraine. And we have to make some adjustments to the choices we make, not only do we have to consider this issue. But as for the government day, the deadline. The committee was asked by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Committee was asked by the Pension Fund of Ukraine to consider the timing of the Government Day. It referred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as having parliamentary hearings in Parliament on March 10 on an extremely important issue: the implementation of our decree after the year of the disabled. The committee therefore clearly supports the idea of holding such a government day. And when it comes to how to conduct it, whether in March or April, we offer to identify ourselves as a hall, either in March or April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in March 2004, registration number 5046. Here comes the vote, your honors. [[10:47:56]] For 218. The decision is not taken. For reasons, please, Simonenko. The factions, please. I'll read it one minute, dear colleagues. When they call it a deputy's name, not a faction, I ask you. "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Regions of Ukraine" - 4, Communist factions - 59, industrialists and entrepreneurs, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, "SDPU(o) - 0, "The People's Republic" - 12, "SPU - 19, "Julia Tymoshenko - 13, "Deminiciative" - 0, "The Agrarian Party - 4, "The People's Party" - 0, "The People's Party" - 2, "The Non-Flocked - 6. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u82	The Communist faction. Respectable colleagues. I would like to ask your consent and let us take this issue seriously in terms of reviewing the concept of pension legislation. Not only is the problem at the average wage level determined by the Government, but it is particularly the fact that pension problems are now on the shoulders of the worker and the pay-as-you-go has been increased from 1-2 per cent to 7 per cent. The private sector has been reduced from 32 per cent to 25 per cent. Thus, once again, the pro-presidential majority, the nastiest and, unfortunately, the socialists, who voted in favour of the Pension Reform Act, voted in favour of what the poor have been deprived of, made even more poor, and made the rich rich rich. That is why I propose that the concept of this law be reconsidered, and only then can we correct a major radical error.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u83	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Then one of the socialists will identify himself, please not all three. No, we're done here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u84	"Our Ukraine." This "communist" lie on parliamentary air is getting tired of everyone. So they're talking about some bourgeois parliament, headed by their leader Adam Martinyuk, and they're saying that "Our Ukraine" is up against some kind of deterioration in pension insurance. We say, "Our Ukraine" supported the Pension Reform Act, which envisions an increase in pensions for everyone, without exception for pensioners, and the Yanukovic government, which, by the way, is supported by some sort of communists, has adopted a decree on November 20, which has reduced the base from which the pension is made and thus the pensioners are reduced. So I urge the Communists and others to stop lying, to speak only the truth from the Parliamentary rostrum, because this is what our electorates hear and the right conclusions are drawn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u85	Yes. Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u86	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski is a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, sir, whether Zibank's comrade is not to be used as head of the committee of the rostrum for political purposes. And you have to report, when you leave, the committee's decision by itself. And as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko often does, so did he today. The truth is, Peter Mikolaiovich, that the law has been passed, but it is not being enforced by the government today in the extent to which it should be implemented. And you're right that the law needs to be improved. Thus, socialists clearly advocate holding parliamentary hearings and not delaying them, but in March months. And I call, and I very much ask, Leonida Makarovich Kravczuk of the Faction of the SDPU, your faction does not vote in favour of this decision. And so to you, Mrs. Vaschuk, I address you to think of those peasants. And let's support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u87	A communist replica, please, Simonenko. Well, don't call, please don't call! Well, now you're going to answer and we're going to answer the lines all day!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. Please calm down, and on the next day, I urge you not to tear down the hall today, but then to listen to the Communists. When we warned you -- you can't vote for this pension reform. This is the first time. Secondly, I remind you that a conceptual error is precisely that there is a translated responsibility for the formation of a future pension, in that law that has voted and, including ours, from the whole of the business and the income of private capital enterprises to the personal salary that goes into the Pension Fund. That's the problem. And today to ours, including respectable friends, comrades, some and gentlemen of the socialists, do not deceive people and yourself! Please correct a joint error that you have made because you have voted consciously, not in other circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u89	Pinzenic. And let's stop at that. What are you yelling at?Oh, my God! Pinzenik has his word. What are you yelling at?Oh, my God! Well, Pinzenik has his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I think Peter Mikolaiovich forgot who I was raising the question from, and I'd like to pay attention. What we're talking about today is not what the Communists say or anyone else, we've caught up with the problem of the pensioners, the problem that affected every Ukrainian pensioner. And we have no right not to consider the situation surrounding pension insurance. And whatever we do, what the government did after the minimum wage was reduced, on salary, by reducing the base of accounting, is that not the subject of Parliament's consideration? It is our duty to answer the questions raised about the pensions of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u91	A draft Ordinance on Ukrainian Government Day in March 2004 is being announced for consideration. [[on the status of preparation for spring-field work and for harvesting in 2004]] Can I have a towel, please, for a little while? And let us, dear fellows, be determined by vote. I think it's an argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u92	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, peasants! In the last two years, we have come to grips with the issue of the country’s food security. We have experienced disgrace when we eat other people’s bread, overseas meat, and wear Turkish or Chinese clothes. The issue of agricultural development and the APC as a whole should therefore be number one for Parliament. A legislative field around the APC has been created. It can be improved. What are the causes of the problems? Who is the government working for? On its own, or on its own, or on its own? A peasant or a trader's middleman? Can everyone wait for the land trade and reach for the village? The Supreme Council of Ukraine should understand, apply the right to control the enforcement of laws, the functioning of the government. It is surprising, therefore, that the government’s days of rural affairs in Parliament are blocked by the people’s deputies. And here the village is where the residual principle probably applies. An example. The committee project, Decree 4307, which was discussed on February 5, this year in the session hall, was not supported. And only 216 national deputies voted in favour. We Communists voted in favour. Therefore, a new draft of Decree 5071 was introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Parubkom, Lechchenko, Tkachenko. We're proposing a government day in March before the mass opening of the spring-field work. Let us hear how the government implements Ukraine’s legislation when preparing for spring and harvesting. And here's a whole set of questions: technology, its state, agricultural farming, lysing, MTS, mineral fertilizers, livestock. organics, credits, subsidies, seed farming, seismics, government orders, prices, parity prices, irrigation, irrigation, rainy equipment, electricity to do so, logging lanes, taxes, customs, land leases and property contracts, organizational forms of farming on earth, retail prices for food products, and so on. Does Ukraine’s national deputies not care? The government assures me that everything will be fine. This isn't the first time. It may be enough to eat, thanks to them, Belarusian bread and Georgian sugar. Let's talk about the system in the agrarian sector of the state. If the authorities return face - to - face to the village, it will repay the story. I would ask all Ukrainian national deputies who are in favour of the village to vote in draft Decree No. 5071 as a basis and as a whole. If anyone has a good point, they can be considered. If we don't spend Government Day in March, we'll have another year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u93	I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Ukrainian Government Day in March 2004, registration number 5071, please vote. Dear colleagues, let's make a vote. [[10:57:46]] For 124 The decision is rejected. The factions, please. Melniczuk, there's someone. Michael, this isn't your specialty. I'll read it now, one minute, return the information. "Our Ukraine" - 25, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 57, "The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs" -1, "The People's Government" - 0, "The People's Government" - 19, "The Block of July Timoshenko - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 3, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Party" - 5. All of it. Please, Michaela Melniczuk, with motive. Let's move on. I just want to say that if we continue to farm in agriculture, in 2008, according to the institutions, we don't have to collect crops, because there's nothing to sow, there's nothing to collect. All right, good fellows. One Melniczuk, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u94	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Vladimir Mikhailovich, I support your opinion. Indeed, for the second time in this room we cannot vote. Note how the majority votes. Dear national MPs, colleagues! Why are we so afraid to discuss an important issue for the State on Government Day? Tomorrow we'll be shopping for bread abroad again. The villagers have no fuel, no fertilizer, no funds. Banks refuse to issue loans! What's going on in the state? We can't discuss this with the government! And how long can you ask that question? If it is not March, do not assume that it is not May, not April, or June, that cannot save a situation that can be fixed today. Spring field work has already begun, what are we waiting for, dear friends? And we don't vote, and we don't vote for agriculture, including agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u95	A draft decree on the day of Ukraine’s government in March 2004 on the implementation of provisions, international agreements and agreements in connection with Ukraine’s acquisition of the status of a nuclear-free state is being announced for consideration. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! The proposal to hold the Government’s Day on such a matter is based on the fact that in the process of implementing international treaties and agreements in connection with Ukraine’s acquisition of the status of a nuclear - free State has revealed many very serious issues that cannot help but disturb our people. Many of the national MPs remember how the mines were eliminated, how strategic bombers were destroyed. Perhaps many of you have watched a recent TV show on "The Document," where this dramatic situation was shown. We all know the situation with the disposal of solid rocket fuel now at the Pavlograd plant. So the two committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and our committee, are proposing to hold the government's April 13th Day on these issues. I'm asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u97	Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In addition to the questions that Georgi Korniyovich has said now, we need a clear answer from the government: a list of real guarantees to Ukraine in connection with the acquisition of nuclear-free status, which mechanism for the real fulfillment of these guarantees, and what algorithm should be used if one of the guarantor countries has territorial claims to Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'd like to support the government's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u99	Thank you. Oleg Grachev, first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposed draft regulation proposes to hold the Government’s Day in order to monitor the implementation of international treaties and agreements in connection with Ukraine’s acquisition of the status of a nonnuclear state. The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting yesterday reviewed the draft decree and approved its recommendation to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a single amendment: determining the date of the date of the government's scheduled day not March 13, 2004. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the bill, which has already been said here. And the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the introduction of this draft regulation meets the requirements of the Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, the problem is known, and I would like to support the adoption of this bill with a decision defining the date of the proposed Government Day on 13 April 2004. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Day of the Government of Ukraine in April."--yes? It says "March 2004." It's April, isn't it? "On Ukrainian Government Day in April 2004." This is a proposal from three committees: foreign affairs, national security, and industrial policy. There's a vote coming. Registration number 4484. [[11:03:44]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The draft Ordinance on the Government Day of Ukraine in April 2004 is announced for consideration. [[on equality of rights between women and men]] Oksana Bilozer, please report, National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u102	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies. I bring to your attention the proposal for a Supreme Council Regulation on Government Day on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on ensuring equality of rights between women and men in social, political and cultural activities, in education and vocational training, in work and in reward for it. What moved me to take such an initiative? This is a chronic disease in our society: the low social status of women in Ukraine, which has led to the negative social significance of women. A woman today is not allowed to share in the building up of our nation. What do we have? First of all, it's professional discrimination. People with higher education are 64 percent women, but in the labor ratio, I'm going to give you statistics right now, it's terrible. There is no woman in the Cabinet and the Cabinet of Ministers, only one woman in 16 positions of ministers is in the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers, and so on throughout the entire government. Next. Today, most unemployed are made up of women, among migrant workers, and their millions, 70 percent of women, are responsible for the beginning of a demographic catastrophe, the emergence of so - called social orphans. This is a host of problems that have become a chronic problem for our society today. But we have enough legal framework today to build a new model for the development of our nation based on partnership solidarity between men and women. On April 25, 2001, the President of Ukraine issued Decree No. 283 on the Promotion of the Social Status of Women in Ukraine, which envisaged a number of measures aimed at improving the status of women. Fewly, paragraph 3 of the decree of the General Office of State, Ministry, State Statistics had been requested to prepare and submit proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers to improve the staffing arrangements for the State Service, taking into account the proportionally balanced representation of women and men. To implement the decree, the Cabinet of Ministers passed decree No. 479 on the National Action Plan on May 6, 2001. [[on improving the status of women and promoting gender equality in society for 2001-2005]] The National Program, which was commissioned by the Ministry and other executive authorities to take a number of steps to improve the status of women. Judging from what we have today, these normative acts are not being implemented, and there is a great need and a need to listen to the government today, how the national programme is being implemented, and how the President's decree is being implemented. And one more thing. We're building a democracy with you. Well, without a woman, it's not democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u103	Thank you. Gennady Josephovich, please. It may be necessary for men to earn well and decently and for women to be unemployed and not to run on railways.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! Smiles and I need to consider this vital issue. The role in society, the role of women, the gender issue, this differs from that of men and women, gender issues. Finally, we need to remember that a woman in the days of the Soviets, working on railway tracks with kale, felling on something, and in the days of an independent Ukraine, only changed the jackets that they wear. We should seriously address the issue We have four bills on gender, and they are recommended by our committee of the Supreme Council for consideration. But in order for this issue to be taken seriously enough, the committee supports the draft decree proposed by Oksana Biozor to spend Government Day in April, and this will prejudge the bill that I'm talking about. Science and expertise also supports the government's day on this issue, but they suggest that it be transferred to a more soul-like distance of time. We ask the Human Rights Committee, which has considered this issue, to support the Bill of Oksana Bilozer and finally to say the first word of the Supreme Council to this appeal that the Supreme Council is giving great attention to issues related to the genderization of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u105	Thank you. Rudzikowski, please, I understand, to support this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you. I am a member of the Council of Europe on equality between women and men. And the position of the Council of Europe is that, in Ukraine today, there is, in terms of the Council of Europe, no equality of women and men, including not only in permanent life, but also in political representation. The Council of Europe insisted that the Ukrainian delegation have at least one woman in force, so that legislation protects women's right to go to the Supreme Council as a minimum of 20 percent, or 30 percent, and so forth. All these questions can be asked during the government day. And that's why I'm addressing the majority. You have a negative against that determination. I'm talking to the leaders of the faction of Social Democrats and the Labour Ukraine, to other national MPs, support, after all, women and your constituents, most of them in Ukraine. The majority who voted for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u107	Thank you. Valerius Mishur. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u108	Valerius Mishur is a faction of Communists. Well, first of all, I want to draw the attention of the people's deputies here, how far they have rejected us in the past! To the extent that these problems have been solved in the Soviet Ukraine, we need to resolve the question, perhaps, of the return to this system of Soviet authority that has given women equality with men in all aspects of our social life. This is the first time. And secondly, I think that what we're going to talk about here is women's rights. It was said that, say, few women are elected to the Supreme Council. So who chooses? Women, on the other hand, choose men first. So if we ask questions -- you choose not those, but choose these, this is a women's right! But I generally support such a government day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u109	Yes, Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you that Vladimir Mikhailovich noticed my raised hand because I was already excited that even in the turn of the questions, we are still dominated by men as they dominate the Presidency as they dominate the committee leadership. So thank you very much, Oksani Volodymyrna, for the question raised, and I remind you that we don't have a woman in the Council of Europe. But, dear friends, we need to understand one thing that, in developing this subject and listening to it, we need to establish a constant that not only without a woman there is no democracy, but if there is no democracy, there will be 300 lead soldiers sitting in Parliament, and they will execute a decision that is ignored from where, as it was in the U.S.R.R., in the end, which is the result that their gender composition does not affect. That's why democracy, human rights, women's rights. And this theme needs to be developed and supported together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u111	Vasuk. Well, respectable colleagues, come on. All right, time's up. Andrew School for Women, we're voting now. Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, of course, we will not establish gender equality in Ukraine as a day of government. We need to adopt special legislation and start with election laws. You know, in Ukraine, there's a civil parliament of women in Ukraine. As it turned out, in this House women of one. But they themselves, at their own expense, come to meetings, work on laws. And we have already made many amendments to the laws and entire laws on behalf of the Ukrainian women's civil parliament. Dear man, equality must be ensured in action. Today we have the whole branch of power and executive, and the actual legislative branch of man. And so your responsibility is great in the fate of our children, women, families. And I call on you to support the hearing of this question in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska. Well, I can't help but say the word. Please. Let's have all the women sign up, you'll be performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u114	Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. I support the idea of addressing this issue at a meeting of the Supreme Council from the perspective of the Cabinet of Ministers. But I would like to emphasize that I would like to hear more than just, let's say, the situation of women today, namely, the reasons that have led women to such a situation. Why are there even unemployed today? And why is the weight of women so high among them? I would like to express my position in general on this matter. I'm against quota. Because I believe that such an approach violates the dignity of women, women, indeed, should be equal members of society. And they're able to do all these jobs. I want us to consider why the situation of women has deteriorated in Ukraine over the past 12 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u115	Thank you. I'm talking to men. Dear men, we choose those who have already chosen us. That's why I'm now putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on Ukrainian Government Day in April 2004. Let's see who's against women. Registration number 5018. Please vote. [[11:15:59]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. I'm announcing. "Our Ukraine" - 93, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 5, the Communist faction - 53, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine" - 2, "SDPU" - 6, "The People's Government" - 1, "The People's Government" - 18, "The House of July Timoshenko - 15, "Deminicatives" - 0, "The Agrarian Party - 8, "The People's Choice" - 10, "The National Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 6. A draft Costs Regulation for the 2004 Supreme Council is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 1005 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the approval of the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for the financing and provision of the activities of the higher legislative body of the State. On September 30, 2003, the Rules Committee reviewed a project submitted by the Supreme Council's Authority for the exercise of the powers of the Supreme Council and supported it, amounting to 319 million. Of these, 283 million are mined. 706,8 grand. the general fund and 35 million 312 thousand. - a special fund. But, as you know, Ukraine's 2004 State Budget Act approved expenditures for the implementation of the Supreme Council's 271 million-dollar mandate. 510 grand. the general fund and 35 million 312,000. - a special fund that's 13 million less than the committee has offered. And there's no way to take into account the proposal to allocate centralized capital investments for the reconstruction and modernization of the session hall. The constructive cooperation of the Committee with the Authority at its meetings on February 4 and 11, this year, took into account the proposals made by the people’s deputies to the committee. In this regard, some of the funds have been redistributed within the limits of the above - mentioned sums, and the funding offered for your consideration has been supported. With the aim of creating adequate housing conditions for the people, for the proper working conditions for the Ukrainian people's deputies and their assistants, the consultants, the committees agreed to the committee's proposals for the completion of the construction of the administrative building on 3rd Street, to which 23 million dollars is to be allocated. The committee focused on ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies, in particular article 18 concerning the disclosure of the activities of national MPs. For this purpose, more than 12 million dollars, article 35 on the creation of adequate housing conditions for national deputies, are directed at 8 million dollars for the payment of monetary compensation and 18 million dollars for the completion of the construction of a residential building on the street of Srebnokilska 24, which is being built by the National Building Management. The position of article 32 on compensation for the expenses of deputies for the average monthly salary of 2,500 dollars, for the computerization of 5 million, 600,000 dollars, increased to 4,000 dollars for the work of assistant consultants, for the transportation of national deputies from 17 to 20 hours, amounting to 449 dollars per month, for the deployment of assistant consultants - 150 dollars per month, for the maintenance of seats in constituencies every month, for the provision of 104 bracelets, for radio, television and press - 320 bracelets per month, for the rent of seats for the assembly of electorates in the 700 roubles per year, for the reimbursement of the cost of periodicals for the publication of materials to the Ukrainian National Deputees of 700 Grevens per year. In the absence of time, I'm not going to misuse numbers, and the cost-of-living project in all of you is on your hands, and you've had the opportunity to get to know it. We should take into account that without the approval of the funding cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the second year, it has been implemented only within the limits of the cost foreseen for the work. Of course, it may be said that there is no procedure for the consideration and acceptance of the funds of the Supreme Council, but we should remember that the Supreme Council is the only body of state authority for which the adoption of the asset is separately mentioned in the Constitution of Ukraine by article 85, paragraph 35. And perhaps this is to ensure the financial independence of the Supreme Council from executive power. And perhaps it was logical to accept the High Council's contribution to the adoption of the State Budget in general. We can adjust the cost with you now, try to change it. But the redistribution of these funds can lead to undesirable consequences for ensuring the normal functioning of the Supreme Council, each national deputy of Ukraine, the apparatus workers, businesses and organizations that provide the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Clearly, the cost cannot solve all problems. It lists that minimum of funds needed to ensure the normal functioning of the legislative body. And if we're going to make changes now, we're not going to improve it, we're just going to waste time. I would like to inform you that yesterday at the Committee on Budgetary Questions, a matter has been discussed and the proposed draft regulation is supported. Also a positive conclusion about the proposed draft decision is the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. On behalf of the Supreme Council Committee on Rules of Procedure, please support the proposed draft regulation, registration number 5131 of 13.02. In 2004 Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u117	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin. Please tell me, why do we have in breach of the Advisory Assistant Regulation a total of 150 dollars per month for the deployment of assistant consultants, while the position is 30 percent? In fact, what do we think about our own decisions taken by the Supreme Council that we are obliged to implement? And please tell me, after consulting assistants, is it possible to send an assistant consultant to get a job at least one question at 150 dollars a month? Does anyone think about it in the Supreme Council or does no one think? Maybe let's look for money in another one, cut it in on another one? Or just stop the propaganda then and say that we just don't guarantee our own position, which we've established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u120	Thank you for asking, Yuri Anatolyovich. The following can be answered in this regard. We've gone through an increase in the general fund for assistant consultants, and you can see it from 3,000 grand. up to 4,000 grand. With regard to the funds to be allocated to assistant consultants, as I have told you, the previous proposal of the Committee on Rules of Procedure was approved at the level of the High Council's funds of 319 million grand, approved by 271. And that's why we couldn't fund, anticipate full funding for all expenses, including for assistant consultants. If you look at it, it's the same situation, to some extent, and it's preserved about the deployment of Ukrainian national deputies. If we were to support, along with you, those proposals that were made from the outset by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, where these expenditures were foreseen, then we could talk about financing the costs of shipping in full. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u121	I just want to say to you, dear colleagues, that we have more than 10.5 million pensioners getting a month's pension up to 200 dollars, 200 and 150. So let's compare. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, I was pleased to learn that up to $700 is available for the publication of the national deputy in periodical publications. In a year, only I would like to know about this information from the representatives of these regional publications. Because as many times as I go to district publications, and I'm a senior deputy in the rural area, the district editions tell me that this payment should be made by me, someone has to compensate me, according to some of the papers they have. So I want this information not to be kept secret, but to be brought to the heads of regional publications. Because of the press connection, it is a vital element of the national MP’s relationship with his constituents. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. The point is, if this information has just been published from this rostrum, it is no longer secret. I think we're going to use our equipment to report this to the region and they're going to know that it's not just for certain publications, it's for radio, television, other local media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u124	Alexander Baranowski and all. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues! Yesterday on the budget committee, we looked at this cost and, of course, we should accept it, because many articles are not being funded today, and what we're going to do is we're going to get worse. But I would like to talk about the following. Nevertheless, the regulatory committee and the entire Supreme Council need to think about whether we should finance, say, a rest facility, I mean a sanatorium, when we're giving grants up to $10,000 per deputy. Is there a need for such a grant when, on the coast of the Black Sea, the sanatorium is largely profitable for everyone who keeps them there. So we need to think about this. We need to consider why our hotel costs more than other hotels in Kiev. Car parking is a problem, with the use of motor vehicles, no one drives for 20 hours. Who travels at this time? Therefore, we should consider these matters. I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give an order and then not to say that MPs use excessive funds. They're used by someone else, and they cheat on MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's talk even more about this here, so the authority of the Supreme Council will increase from that. Then you demand it, then you criticize it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u127	Dear Alexander Petrovich, I do not understand where the figure of $10,000 came from. As far as the functioning of our health complex is concerned, this is a matter that has been put into the order of our committee of day, and I think that we, together with you, the Committee on Budget Affairs, are going to consider and make the right decision. Thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues! Please support the proposed draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u128	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Supreme Council Regulation as a whole on the cost of expenditure for the implementation of the 2004 Supreme Council. [[Registration number 5131]] Please vote. [[11:28:33]] For 405 Decision taken. You're announcing a draft decision on the transfer of the entire property complex of the State Enterprise Hotel Ukraine to management, state administration. Koval Vjacheslav Stanislavovich, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the transfer of the entire property complex of the State Enterprise Hotel Ukraine to the administration, state administration of Ukraine. The State Enterprise Hotel Ukraine, where there are 90 national deputies, was built in 1961. Capital repairs or reconstructions were not carried out during its operation. The existing technical condition of the hotel does not correspond to fire, sanitation, central heating system, hot water supply, ventilation, plumbing, sewerage, watercourses, and the system, electricity, and morally and physically obsolete, and is replaced. Taking into account a significant period of operation, the hotel needs a complete reconstruction. However, it is not possible to relocate Ukraine’s national deputies for 2-3 years for reconstruction because of the absence of a financial and emergency housing fund. In today's most rational situation, it is acceptable to pass on the knowledge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Kiev Hotel. The benefits of this decision are: the Kiev Hotel, built or put into service in 73 C.E., the most recent building in the world. In October 2000, repairs and renovations of all premises, replacements of communications, new heating systems, and electricity were started, many of which have already been completed. The territorial proximity of the Kiev Hotel to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its location near the National Hotel will enable the creation of a single compact administrative residence complex to ensure the viability of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The only administrative housing complex will allow autonomously, irrespective of other organizations, to ensure that official and protocol measures are taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, staying at the Kiev Hotel will give the people's deputies of Ukraine the opportunity to organize their work day rationally. The Rules Committee therefore reviewed the draft regulation and asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft regulation. But the Ukrainian National Deputies please pay attention to the second paragraph of the decree. The second paragraph of the decree states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine administration should transfer the property object mentioned in paragraph 1 of this decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, subject to the transfer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the entire property complex of the state-owned enterprise "Kyiv Hotel complex", located on the street of Gruszewski, 26/1 in Kiev. So it's not just a transmission without us. Before the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the Administration carries out an act of transfer to the hotel "Ukraine", we should get a transfer to the hotel "Kiev". Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u130	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention! I want to focus on a few points of your attention and I want to vote right now. Your decision. There's no need for discussion here. First of all, I'm tired of so-called investors who would like to help the Supreme Council with the hotel "Ukraine." [[in quotes]] The other one. We don't have the capacity to reconstruct it. Third. We need to create conditions, conditions for the work of Ukrainian national deputies. I would ask you not to start the discussion, but by voting, to determine your position. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the transfer of the entire property complex of the state-owned hotel "Ukraine" to the administration of the state administration. Registration number 5148. Please vote. [[11:33:24]] For 355 Decision taken. Please, from Boris Bespali's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u131	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I still want to point out that I've been enrolled in a speech from the rostrum, and in vain you don't give a word in rude violation of regulations. The more lukewarm such questions are resolved, the more doubts they raise. It's really so clean here, there's nothing so bad about this decision. And so your intention to do it as quickly as possible without discussing it, it's more of a question than it would have been if we had asked a few questions and heard a few answers. So when we leave the fog on a very transparent matter, we're actually hurting it. And I'm going to ask you for a second time not to break so, sorry, brutally. You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u132	Dear National MPs, the breach of regulations is due to prevent us from lowering the level of the Supreme Council once again in the eyes of the electorate when we are engaged in property-sharing. And, Boris Bespali, if you're interested, dear colleague, I can tell you the lobbyists who came and asked questions about how to transfer this property complex to some other structure. I don't want to do that. Please review the draft decree on the recognition of the Zaporozhye region as a zone of special natural disasters in the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine with damages. But there are other areas here, these are bills under 4128, 4128-d, 3752, 4496. Areas now I'm the name that applies. This is about the Zaporozhye region, this is about a number of areas in the Ternopil region, this is about the Herson region. Why don't we go to the vote right now? Is there no objection? I'm putting to the vote, please, from the position committee, Sulkowski, please. Let's vote better.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! To put a proposal to the vote, it turns out that each of the three drafters has passed a decree. Therefore, after considering these draft decrees of all three, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies on the recognition of Zaporzik, Herson and Ternopil region as a zone of special natural disaster, with the release from the State Budget Reserve of funds for damages to enterprises in the agro-industrial complex, the committee notes. The authors of the draft decree, referring to article 16 of the Constitution of Ukraine, propose that the agrarian sector of the region’s economy be recognized as a zone of exceptional ecological situation due to the loss of crops from adverse weather conditions. It should be noted that the legal regime of the disaster zone is not defined by valid legislation. The granting of a state of emergency to designated areas by signs of crop loss due to adverse weather conditions is not in line with the signs of an extreme ecological situation as defined in the Ukrainian Law on an Emerging Environment Zone. Article 1 of the Act states: "the zone of an exceptional ecological situation, in particular the area of Ukraine, where an extraordinary environmental situation has arisen, where there have been negative changes in the environment in a particular area, which require extraordinary measures by the State. With regard to the declaration of a particular area as a zone of ecological emergency, according to article 6 of the Act, a separate area of Ukraine is declared a zone of ecological emergency by the President of Ukraine on the proposal of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine or the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. President of Ukraine's decree to declare a separate area an ecological emergency is confirmed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to the regulations on the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve for Ukraine for the holding of designated areas for damages, article 24 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and the procedures for the allocation of funds approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 29 March 2002 at number 415, this decision is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine solely on the basis of the findings of Mineconomy and Minfin. Taking into account the possibility of the draft resolution and the need for its solution, the Committee invites the Supreme Council to adopt a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in all three areas, as proposed by the committee on the Zaporez Region, registering at number 4128-d, namely the Supreme Council ruling, I ask for a moment to read to the Supreme Council about the situation in the agricultural complex of Zaporezki, Herson, Ternopil, because of the unfavourable conditions for 2002-2003. I think it's given away. If you need to read, if someone is not familiar and recommend, there are three short points: 1. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to study the situation in the agricultural sector of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u135	No questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u136	Well, with Lechchenko's motives, we'll vote. One minute, calm down! It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u137	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I emphasize, and I spoke about this at a committee meeting that these draft regulations do not refer to an extraordinary environmental situation. It is a natural disaster that has been experienced in these areas. So I propose that this issue be resolved in the interests of agriculture, that all three decisions be taken: 4128, 3752, 4496 - in the texts of their authors, except that in Decree 4128 and in Decree 3752, three write that "recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate" the funds that are recorded there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u138	Orzhachowski, please. And we'll give you the frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I am the author of one of the decrees, along with Catherine the Seminal. And listening to the coconspirator today, I cannot agree with the suggestions made by the author. And that's because I was on the Committee on the Agribusiness Complex and there in many positions, and including my determination was supported, and not in the same way as it says today. Why Can’t I Agree? I can't agree because there's a recommendation from the Cabinet of Ministers to study the situation in the agro-industrial complex, including the Herson area, when it's been studied for a long time. And a lot of references, I can demonstrate chronology right now, when the district council sessions, the district council sessions last year, were referred to when the people's deputies were held in this room to the President and to everyone else, and there was an emergency session, including the promised agrarian block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u140	Well, now we're going to vote. Anatoly Frost. And now we're going to vote. People's deputies please come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u141	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. I support Anatoly Orzhachowski and protest against what the co-reporter said, which should be studied, the question has long been studied. So I would like to encourage my colleagues that there really is a terrible situation in these areas, in agriculture. This has already been done, as it were, for the following year. Dear colleagues, we've always supported the foreign MPs if they had any areas left and they always responded. I'm asking you to support these three bills because there really is a problem in agriculture in these areas. And you don't have to say, I've approached my colleagues that it's going to pull all over Ukraine, etc. Where it really is a complex situation, there are MPs talking about it, talking about MPs at different levels, etc. I would ask you very much not to confuse what it was like on the Committee of Agrarian Politics when they said there were funds in the contingency fund, but they're lying there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting for Decree No. 4128, but in paragraph 3, please record the committee's recommendation to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of this clarification, I am voting on draft decision No. 4128 on the recognition of the Zaporozhye region as a zone of special natural disaster in the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine with damages. Members, please. One minute, cancel the vote. I'm voting on draft regulation 4128 on the recognition of the Zaporozhye region as a zone of special natural disaster in the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex with one detail, in paragraph 3, to write the "recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers" et cetera. In general, I'm putting it to a vote. [[11:44:45]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm voting on draft ruling No. 3752 on the recognition as a zone of special natural disasters in the agro-industrial complex of Chardkowski, Borsztowski and Zalishtinski, Ternopil region, with compensation for damages, specifying article 3 of "Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers." continue to follow the text. [[11:45:24]] For 168 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree number 4496, the authors of the National Deputies: Orzhachowski, Samoylik, on the recognition of the Herson region as a zone of special natural disaster in the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine with damages. I'm betting on voting on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[11:46:02]] For 148 The decision is not taken. Document rejected. Lucenka, please. Let's put it on, I've already announced Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u143	Lucenko, a socialist faction. I understand that, for the honourable radio audiences, we have just not voted in favour of the decisions of the Ukrainian peasants, the factions of the Presidential Parliament that have turned Ukraine into a full zone. So I would like to propose another decision on the recognition of Ukraine as a whole in the area affected by the Kuchma disaster. And vote for it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u144	A draft regulation on social support measures is being announced for consideration. What? Please give the last ballot on the factions. Dear colleagues! Not all of them, please. Return the vote. "Our Ukraine" - 27, Ukraine - 2, Communist faction - 59, Industrialists and entrepreneurs, Labour Ukraine - 0, SDPU (o) - 0, "The People's Government" - 21, SPU - 20, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 2, Agrarian Party - 0, National Choice - 13, NDP - 0, Postfraction - 4 Dear colleagues! I haven't voted yet. I missed one. This decision is made by a committee. May I have your attention, please? There's four, and we've only voted three. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 4128-D "On the situation in the Agro-industry complex of Zaporozhye region due to adverse weather conditions between 2002 and 2003." On the basis and in general. Please vote. What's wrong? [[11:48:12]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. It's a bill of order that the committee made. I put him to the vote. And you're on the committee to figure out what's right. I don't think that's right. A draft regulation on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Kyrovgrad in relation to the 250th thing since the founding day is announced. No! No! We don't vote here. Please, Bezlogo. There's an oil committee. Please, briefly, Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Decision on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Kyrovgrad in connection with the 250th year of establishment was considered at the meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on 26 November. And then he wasn't supported for the following reasons. First, the project was implemented in violation of the terms laid down in the Ukrainian Budget Code. Second, when adopted, it has a significant impact on the spending of the State budget of Ukraine, with unforeseeable sources of expenditure of 104 million dollars. 11,000. A bracelet that both the Budget Code and our Rules require. The third is that it provides for the distribution of budgetary expenditure by a regulation, not by law, so it would be a lot of legal force if we took it, and it would be just a pyar action. Fourth, it is contrary to the principles set out in the Code of Budgets of Ukraine for the development and submission of budgetary inquiries in the preparation of the draft State Budget of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In principle, the science-expert administration says the same thing is that it needs to be changed through the State Budget. Dear colleagues, as you can see, obstacles to this decision are of a legal nature, not essentially. Therefore, the committee suggests that this decision cannot be supported, along with supporting the city of Kirovograd in the necessary measures. This requires a draft revision to the budget, a law to the 2004 budget of Ukraine, which we are also asking the authors of this bill to essentially resolve the issue, not just to declare it. Thank you. And please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u146	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. Please, Puzakov, one of the drafters. Please be very brief and prepare for the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u147	Vladimir Puzakov faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Dear colleagues, taking into account the historical significance of the city, its important contribution to the economy of the country, the National Deputies of the Ukraine of Antonyeva, Bilovol, Boyko, One, Meshura, Polit, Powlski, Puzakov, Sharov supported the initiative of the city's population to celebrate this famous date on September 25 and 26, 2004. 250 years for the city is not much. And in order for this year to be remembered in a special way, the local authorities have also adopted a 250-year-old Jubilee programme. So I am addressing you personally, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and you, honourable deputies, to support the Supreme Council's decision on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Kyrovgrad in connection with the 250-year establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on measures to support the socio-economic development of the city of Kyrovgrad in relation to the 250th century of the establishment. On the basis and in general. Registration number 4297. Please vote. [[11:52:23]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have three more decisions to put to the vote. A draft decree marking the century of the first edition of the Bible in English is being announced for consideration. The committee's conclusion is, it's positive. The committee invites the Supreme Council to accept this document. Is there no objection? I am voting on the basis and the entire draft decree marking the century of the first edition of the Bible in Ukrainian. Registration number 3454. Please vote. [[11:53:11]] For 397 Decision taken. The draft Decree on the Celebration of the Century from the birth of the great humanist writer Mikli Ostrovsky is being announced. The committee's decision. The Committee recommends approval of the draft decision as a whole. There is, therefore, good reason to put the matter to a vote. I'm voting on the Supreme Council's decree to commemorate the century from the birth of the great humanist writer Mikli Ostrovsky for adoption as a whole. Registration number 4213. Please vote. [[11:53:59]] For 329 Decision taken. The draft Order on the Celebration of Two Centuries From the Birth of the Eminent Scientist Maximovich is introduced. The committee's decision is positive. No objections? I'm voting on the adoption as a basis and in the entire draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mark the 200th anniversary of the birth of the great scientist Maximovich, registration number 4614. Please vote. [[11:54:42]] For 393 Decision taken. The draft law on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010 is being announced for consideration. Second reading. There's still time. Maybe we can make it. Registration number 3446. Sergei Mikolaiovich Tereshuk, please. Is Sergey Mikolaiovich here? Who's on the committee, please? Wait a minute. Come on, which of the national deputies who made the amendments that were unaccounted for insisted on these amendments? What an amendment, please, Boris Bespali. Fifth Amendment. Boris Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u149	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Actually, I wanted to draw your attention, my dear colleagues, to the motive for this amendment being rejected. I quote, "refused, because it doesn't fit the operating instructions of the department." If we apply the laws to the instructions, it's just, I think, just unnecessary comments. Now essentially the amendment. It's technical. But that's what the offer is. We have adopted a programme to adapt Ukraine to European legislation. The Minust and the Supreme Council are working hard to codify legislation. So we have to use the same numbering everywhere and so forth. I suggest you number all the points with numbers, then it'll be understood around the world, not in letters. In all the laws. I'm just talking to the developers. In this case, I just don't insist on anything, I'm just asking you to be very careful about the proposals made by the deputies and to consider this editorial simply an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote Amendment No. 5 on Boris Bespalogo's page. You just heard the arguments. Please vote. [[11:56:56]] For 176 Correction not accepted. What are the other adjustments? You don't? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on the State Fisheries Development Programme 2003-2010. Registration number 3446. Please vote. [[11:57:34]] For 362 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, as we agreed, at 12: 30 a.m., we are discussing the appointment, election, and dismissal of judges. The chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, is invited to the rostrum. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Please, dear fellows, listen carefully to your surnames.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u152	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the honourable judges present in this Hall, allow me to announce the decision of the Committee on Legal Policy and the draft decision of the Supreme Council Decision. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part of the first article of the 128th Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: The Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk district of Kolejczuk Alexander Vasilovich, Nagorniak Eugenia Petrovich. The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Kotushenko Svetlana Philippevena, Adjective Alla Petrovna. The Court of Appeal of the Tobian district of Tobian, Victorian. The Court of Appeal of the Zacarpathian District of Pavluchenko Sergey Viktorovich and Semachenko Lily Ivanovna To the Court of Appeal of the district of Zaporozhye Sergey Ivanovich, Tatarina Anna Ivanovna. The Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankivsk, Yasinovenko Ludmila Vasilovna. The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Buhanka Valerija Petovic, Horbatenko Olen Mikhailnov and Chobur Alexander Volodymirovich. The Court of Appeal of the Mikolayev Region of Vojtovsky, Sergei Andriyovich, Markov Tetjana Alexandrovna, Tambovtsev Vladimir Alexiyovich. In addition, it is proposed that Timothy Petrovich, Anatoly Stanislavovich, Thomas John Mihajlovich, and King Vladimir Volodymyrovich be elected. The Court of Appeal of the Odessa district of Mandrik Vitali Aleksandrovitch The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Danisenko, Lilia Mikolayevna, Pavelka Vladimir Pavlovich, Taranka Yuri Petrovic and Drjanica Yuri Volodymirovic. Kharkiv County Court of Appeal -- Hook Valentine Vasilovna, Kiselova Grigori Stepanovich, Mikulina Mikola Ivanovich, Minenk's Nadia Alexandrovna, Sniger's Rajis Ivanovna, Sokologist Oleg Volodymirovich, Tobacco Natalia Gabrielovna. The Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region is Burlak Vasil Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u153	Burlak, right? Put a mark on it. Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u154	Eutushenko Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u155	And Evtushenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u156	Litvincewa Vladimir Mikhailovich, Pavlenko Ludmila Alexiyevna, and Cindu Raís Mikhailnovna Court of Appeal: Kifluka Volodmir Fedorovich, Stépanid Pilipovna and Yacenyuk Vasil Fedorovich. The Court of Appeal of Kiev - Balatka Galina Alexandrovna, Vovchenka Vitalija Mikolaiovich, Gregorian Irina Viktorovna, Kachana Viktor Yakovic Military Court of Appeal of the Western Region - Palija Bogdan Petrovich All these candidatures, all the judges passed through the committee, each candidature we considered separately, examined complaints that had been filed in advance by certain judges, were the materials of the Supreme Court and the Council of Judges of Ukraine. And I have to tell you that this composition of judges to the Courts of Appeal has shown an extremely high level of knowledge and knowledge and our Ukrainian legislation and European law, because we are looking into the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the committee recommends that honorary colleagues select judges for these positions. Excluding, Vladimir Mikhailovich, those names we spoke of.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Excluding surnames: Burlaka Vasil Aleksandrović, Evtushenko Vasil Grigorović, Litvintsev Valentin Mihajlovich, Pavlenko Ludmila. What? Is everyone else coming through? Lithuania's passing, isn't it? With the exception of last names, may I have your attention? Burlaka, Evtushenko and Pavlenko are the Court of Appeal in the Cherkas region. I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance "On the Election of Judges Indemnity", registration number 5001. Please vote. [[12:37:31]] For 388 Decision taken. Burlaka Vasil Aleksandrovich, please come to the microphone. Turn on the Microphone of the Yeshchenka People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u158	So, the honourable MPs, the honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so we've turned in honor, I've turned to Polit on the second question to the Committee on Legal Policy. After the January 11th session, we were contacted by the voters in the Cherkas region who knew that such a meeting had taken place on the issue of the wrong actions of these judges. In time we got, in honor I got from the committee about what, that means, our letters were sent to the head of the Council of Judges of the Ukraine of Krivenko in order for him to consider and draw conclusions. I personally, at a meeting where the Judges were not sitting, but there are observations that are serious. Judges are accused of corruption. So I would like to put off the consideration of these nominations for the next plenary week in order to study these colleagues who were assigned this, the heads of the Council of Judges Krivenko, and then we've been locked up, and then we've already voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u159	Committee position. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u160	We recommended both Burlak and Eutushenka to serve in these positions. Regarding Pavlovenko Ludmila Alexiyevny, there are indeed complaints from Yeshchenko, Stratovitch and Timoshenko, who have come forward today. Therefore, we would suggest that Pauline Ludmila Alexienne be removed so that we would actually check all these circumstances and then withdraw her candidacy for the next time. And as for Burlaka and Eutushenka, I don't think there's any serious comment there, especially as far as I know, there's already a Supreme Court ruling on this. But I think they themselves have to give appropriate explanations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u161	Please, Burlaka Vasil Aleksandrovitch, your explanations are brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u162	Sidorchuk appealed for reinstatement at work. A decision was made by the District Court in Cherkasa that Sidorczuk disagreed with and accused him, but she filed an appeal with a missing date. And the District Court of Transnistria, since it missed a deadline and did not question the renewal of that term, refused to accept an appeal. Then we're going to the Court of Appeal, in the Court of Appeal, and we've come to the conclusion that there's no violation of the law. This ruling of the Court of Appeal was reviewed by the Supreme Court of Ukraine and no violations were found. In fact, it's a procedural question, it's not even about material law, it's about the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u163	Okay. Yutushenko Vasil Grigorovitch, come to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u164	Good afternoon. The point is that I also took part in the consideration of this appeal on the same issue. I mean, I was just taking part. Moreover, I'm in the Court of Justice and the Chamber of Criminal Procedures, but as far as there's no possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u165	To the microphone, talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u166	Yeah. Yeah. I was just taking part. I can explain the same thing as Vasil Alexanderovich Burlak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee on the election of Burlaki Vasil Alexandrovitch to the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u168	The request will be supported. [[12:41:59]] For 265
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u169	Decision taken. [[Applause]] I am voting for the election of Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region on an untimely basis of Eutushenka Vasil Grigorovitch. Please vote. [[12:42:26]] For 293 Decision taken. [[Applause]] As for Pauline Ludmila Aleksyivna, there is a committee proposal. If you do not object, you will postpone consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u170	Yes, there's a complaint before the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u171	Politite, please. Polit Mike. There's a committee proposal. Honorable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u172	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I fully and fully support the proposal of the chairman of the committee. I don't know the personally proposed Judge Ludmila Alexeevna, but unfortunately. I got some serious paperwork, my last name wasn't used here, even though I applied to the committee. The fate of the people and the judges of the individual is decided, of course, by the people who make their own complaints against them. And this judge is in the present case handling these complaints. I invite the Committee to deal very carefully with the comments received on this judge. There's, frankly, there's not just some, maybe there's something there that's read at work, in my opinion, there's obvious signs of corruption. We need to deal with this case, and then we need to put this in the sessional room. I propose that this judge be removed and I fully support the Chairman of the Committee in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u173	The decision has already been made, dear colleagues. Next order. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u174	Thank you. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to elect judges of the local courts on an indefinite basis. To the local Pistachio District Court of Bodnar Volodymyr Vasilovich. Regrettably, the judges are sitting there because we couldn't put everyone here. The local Provincial District Court of the Horn of Creature of Dnipropetrova District of Valovov Valentina Grigorovna; of the local Carican District Court of Dnipropetrovsk Ritova Viktor Ivanovich; the local District Court of Donetsk, Copil Svetlana Eugene; the local Constantine City Court of the Donetsk Region of Solaryev Tamara Alexiyevna; the local Illíchiv District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region Yury Mikhailovich's handicraft; the local Baraniv District Court of the District of Žitomir, Hochluk Hanna Alexiyevna; the local Popilnian District Court of the Žitomir district of Hončarenko Valentina Mikolayevna; the local Chernyachiv District Court of the Žitomir district of Ilyashevich Maria Avramovna; the local Melitopol City Court of Zaporozhye district of Mishchenko Tamaru Mihaylovna; the local Rožnetov district court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Kaliny Hanna Vasilovna; The local Borodian District Court of Kiev, Milanich Antonina Mikolayevna; the local district court of the Kyiv district of Palamarczuk, Valentina Ivanovna; the local Lenin district court of the town of Kirovgrad of Drano Valeri Viktorovich; the local Bilovodsk district court of the Luhansk district of Tkachenko Alexander Dmitrovna; the local Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk, Moscalenka Eugenia Alexiyovich; the local Lutugini District Court of Luhansk district of Kulešov Larissa Vitaliyevna; the local Brotherly District Court of the District of Gubanov Valentina Mikolayevna; the local Woznesen City Court of the Mikolai district of Sholoh Zha Leonidivna; the local Krivoozer District Court of Mikolai District, Larissa Leonidivna; The local Pervomayan city court of the Mikolai district of Gorbenko Svetlana Anatoliyevna, Sejenka Viktor Vitaliyovich; The ship's district court of Mikolayeva, the nameless Vladimir Vasilovich, Skin of Mikola Ivanovich; to the Primorski District Court of Odessa - Jaroz Svetlana Volodymyrna; To the Sarnin District Court of the Ravenna Region - Vlasik Natalija Mikolayevna; The local Zbara District Court of Ternopil, Tkachenka Oleg Mikolaiovich; The Ternopil district court of Ternopil district - Šulgač Mikol Petrovich; The Provincial District Court of Harkov - Road Mikol Ivanovich; The Novotroitsky District Court of the Hersonian Region, Alexander Vasilovich; Ummansk City Court of Cherkas County - Burlak Valentina Ivanovna and Prokulevich Vladimir Stepanović; The Cherka District Court of the Cherka region - Munka Boris Pavlovich; and the Pecher district court of Kiev - Rainer Yu Matvievna. All these candidates were considered on the committee. There are conclusions from the Higher Qualifications Commission. Characteristics are positive. They all meet the requirements set forth in the Constitution and the Law on the Status of Judges, the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u175	People's deputy Domansky's microphone, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On one occasion, we found that when we discuss judges, there were only certain claims and complaints. I mean, if we don't have any claims in the Communists of the Žitomir region to the U.S. judges, we're grateful for their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, one minute, take down the vote, Red, please. Microphone, turn on Vasil Redney.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u178	Basil Red, Ukrainian People's Party. Of course, I'm very jealous of our native neighbors that they have no claim to the staffing of the local courts. And I would like to believe that such a situation will soon be in all of our Ukraine. But unfortunately, there are other cases, and that's why I'm claiming to be the judge of Sarnin's local court, Vlasik Natalia Mikolayovna. I would ask her to be removed from the list so that I can bring these claims before the courts of my fellow Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, with the exception of Natalia Mikolayovna, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft election of judges on an indefinite basis, registration number 5002. Please. Take down the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed that when your last name is read, you raise your hand against the candidature and we take it off. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u180	Dear National Deputies! I represent 157 Sarnin County, where Vlasik Natalija Mikolayevna works. Now, I'd say it's a long-suffering judge, dozens of tests have been going on for six months. The last check was with the committee members, Vasil Vasilovich knows it. In practice, no complaints are confirmed. So I ask you very much, Your Honor, I respect the position of my colleague, but I very much ask you to vote for Vlasik Natalia Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u181	Dear National Deputies, with the exception of the name Vlasik Natalija Mikolayovna, I am putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis, registration number 5002. Please vote. [[12:50:32]] For 374 Decision taken. I'm asking you to come to the mic of Vlasick Natalia Mikolayovna, the microphone is on the balcony. And turn on Basil Red. Please, Basil Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u182	Basil Red, Ukrainian People's Party. With all due respect to my distinguished colleague of the national MP and the first call of Mikola Haritanovic Shershun, I would still like to address all the national MPs. Borrow it yourself, dear friends. A pensioner named Bagney applies to the court for the establishment of work in individual agriculture during the war. Judge Vlasik approves: "The conduct of the Bagney case concerning the establishment of work in the individual economy during the war shall be closed and the applicants shall be clarified by the procedure for seeking status in the relevant commission." I emphasize that an old woman, a retired woman, did not ask Judge Vlasik to give her the status of a participant in the war -- she asked a very different question: to establish the fact that she was working in an individual household. And this woman is out of retirement because of this sad judge. Another situation. A citizen of Cicuru is accused. He caused bodily damage to the average weight of the injured young boy. Judge Vlasik ruled an unlawfully justified verdict, which was later annulled by the district court of appeal. I'm sitting in front of the summer parliamentary holidays, asking Judge Vlasik, "Tell me, please, why have you made this decision?".. "Well, you know, there was a call appropriate from the area.'--and so forth. If there's a phone call.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, where's Vlasik Natalia Mikolayevna? Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u184	What's the first question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u185	To the first and the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u186	As to the matter, according to Bagney’s statement, I gave an explanation and examined the matter. Indeed, it was claimed that individual employment during the war had been established. However, this person, born in 1932, did not provide any evidence in court that he lived in the family of his parents. And in the course of her judicial investigation, she actually changed her demands, saying that she wanted to become a war participant. And so, on the basis of the rules of law, I closed the case, explaining to her that a request for the status of a member of the war should be made to the committee concerned, or I apologize, to the committee concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u187	And on the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u188	With regard to the criminal case of Cicura's accusation, where I actually had a justifiable verdict, which was subsequently overturned, I want to say that now the MP of Red said that there was a call, that it was a nonsensence, that the decision I'm making is coming out of my own mind and from the rules of law. I didn't think there was any evidence on that case, and I want to say that even today, if my mistake was that the decision was made on the basis of a just judgment, it was only from the position that I might have misjudged the facts obtained. No calls, no requests for this account, and I deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u189	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Vassil Mikhailovich, I would like to say that your complaint to the committee came on June 9, 2003. And we, more than ever, very carefully approached her examination, sent to the Supreme Court, to the Council of Judges of Ukraine, to the places and we were told that there was no violation of the oath of effective law by Judge Vlasik. What's more, we didn't stop at these answers because we understood that there might be a question here, and the committee made a decision, to send the national deputy Slabenko, a committee member, to the place and figure it out essentially. He went to the scene and said, "On the committee, there is no claim to a judge. Now my vision of this question. On the first question, according to a citizen of Bagney, I think that the trial judge did the right thing, and that's what any lawyer who reads the Civil Procedure Code can say. Next. It's a criminal matter. Tell me, do we have a lot of judges today? In order to accept a justifiable sentence, I do not say how objective it is, in general, to accept a justifiable sentence, but it takes courage, even though it is prescribed by law. And even if the sentence is overturned, in accordance with the Act on the Status of Judges, the annulment of the sentence, the annulment of the decision, if there is no deliberate, gross violation of the law and the oath, does not entail disciplinary responsibility. The committee therefore recommends that the owner be elected to the judge on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u191	I'm voting for the election of the owner of Natalia Mikolayovna to the judge on an untimely basis, this is the local Sarnin district court of the Plains region. Please vote. [[12:56:30]] For 281 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Let us welcome the elected judges to their posts on an indefinite basis and wish them the honest service of the law, the rule of law. Let us thank the Chief of the Supreme Court for the work that has been done on human resources. [[Applause]] A draft Law on the Approval of the State Program for Animal Selection for the period up to 2010 is being announced for consideration. Sergey Tereshuk, head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations Let's do some repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u192	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy considered the proposed amendments and additions made by the National Deputies and, after a comprehensive analysis, supported the bill and suggested that it be adopted in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u193	Dear National Deputies! What are some warnings about this bill? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the draft Law on the Approval of the State Program of Animal Selection for the period up to 2010. [[Registration number 3447]] Please vote. [[12:58:03]] For 348 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities on Authorized Persons of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets is being announced for consideration. Malinowski Alexi Petrovich, please, is a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! This law is proposed by the committee to adopt in the second reading and in general, since the additions between the first and the second readings were virtually not available. The only thing that is proposed in this law is to be introduced from the new fiscal year on January 1, 2005. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u195	I put to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft law on the amendment of the Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement Officials, registration number 2423, second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. [[12:59:16]] For 211 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u196	Then it is suggested that the second reading be rereaded.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals are all taken into account, what should we take to the second reading again?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u198	What, then, should we do? Suggestions are all included. Well, why don't we ask some questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u199	What? Dear colleagues, I'm going to put it to a vote like this. Who's to vote on this piece of legislation right now? Please vote. [[13:00:07]] For 229 Decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Protection of Court and Law Enforcement, registration number 2423. [[concerning authorized persons of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market]] Please vote. [[13:00:42]] For 241 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u201	A draft Act on Amendments and Recognition is being announced for consideration in such cases as have become invalid, some laws and other legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u202	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable members of the Presidency, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! To implement the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 18 September 2003, the Committee has worked on and prepared for consideration in the second reading, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not the first reading of the draft Law on Change and Recognition of Ukraine, which has become invalid, some laws and other legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine in a new edition, which entered into force on 20 September 2001. This bill has been thoroughly worked out by the committee. 28 suggestions were made to him. The vast majority are included, and the observations of the Supreme Council's legal and scientific expertise are not included in this bill. Therefore, there is an offer to accept it in the second reading and in general as proposed. Please support the drafting of the bill proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any warnings? I am voting on the adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Act on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that they have lost their validity, certain laws and other legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Registration number 1115. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, please support, this is a very important document. [[13:02:56]] For 380 The law is passed. I'm asking you to note that one board doesn't work. The law is passed. Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u205	And there's our other one. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u206	Ah, next. A draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine on the Responsibility of Officials for the Legal Requirements of the People's Deputy is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Vassil Gabrieluk, First Deputy Head of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 18 September 2003, the Committee worked and prepared for a second reading of the draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy. What is it? Today, article 36 states that there is administrative responsibility only for the violations provided for in this article. It's suggested that you add someone else and write "criminal responsibility." According to article 351 of the Criminal Code. So I suggest that you accept it in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, there was an amendment, it's included. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" on the responsibility of officials for failing to comply with the legal requirements of the national MP. Registration number 1116. Please vote. [[13:04:52]] For 407 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Another reading. Dear colleagues, I want an explanation. The amendments were all taken into account. We put it to a vote, it didn't work. Then, as you insisted, we sent him to read again. Your papers were distributed to you earlier. So now we need to vote on the adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on political parties in Ukraine. Registration number 1288. Please vote. [[13:05:53]] For 215 The law is rejected. The factions, please. Now, one minute. "Our Ukraine" - 89, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, Communist faction - 58, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 0, "The People's Government" - 0, "The People's Party" - 0, "The People's Republic" - 17, "The House of July Timoshenko - 15, "Deminicatives" - 1, "The Agrarian Party - 16, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 6, "The Non-Flocked" - 8. Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, we agreed on a previous vote and the deputies, including the majority, supported the second reading to vote today. That's what we agreed on. I'm asking you, you've taken it all into account, all the notes have been taken into account. And I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again to put this question to the vote. Because not everyone was able to vote. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Law 2327 was included on the Conciliation Council on Thursday for the second reading, and our committee took everything into account. There is the insistence of several factions and the committee to consider, including the vice-premier, putting it to a second reading for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u210	I'm asking you to give me this bill 2327 from the Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, I can put Mikola Rudzikowski to the vote, but only in this way. To the vote. Who's to go back to the 1288 Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine? [[13:07:54]] For 227 Decision taken. I'm voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine, registration number 1288. [[13:08:23]] For 208 The law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is being announced for consideration. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u211	Boris Bespaly, State Building Committee and Local Self - Government Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, the authors of the People's Deputies of Desert Tenko, Tolstouchov, Shevchuk, Olujko. The committee considered December 17, 2003. Nine proposals came in, eight of them counted. One proposal, honourable deputies, is proposed for the decision of the Supreme Council, because we accepted it in the first reading, but the committee of its position did not define it. Here's the thing: in the first reading, we've adopted such an editorial comment: "The local council's deputy may be relieved of his position as owner or authorized authority, excluded from the school for prior consent given to the council. This decision shall be prepared by the relevant Board Committee and shall be taken at the Board meeting." So this is a reproduction of the former norm. At the same time, a proposal came from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and National Deputy Carmazin to remove this rule, as it contradicts the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of March 26, 2003, to resolve this issue, to vote for the Supreme Council. As the Supreme Council will decide, so will it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, have you understood the situation with this point? The committee proposes that the discharge order be left in order to release a local council member requires an appropriate decision of the council, which is being prepared by the relevant council committee. Instead, the Cabinet of Ministers and Yuri Carmazin propose to exclude this position by referring to the Constitutional Court’s decision. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, this is in line with the Constitutional Court’s decision and the legal position. I'm a lawyer, but what's going on in Ukraine, the pressure that's going on in the local council members, especially what's going on in the Lviv region, in the Odessa region, is what's going on in the city of Energodar of Zaporez, where huge amounts of money have been stolen, and even for what people have gathered, people are being put in a cell: they've put an activist of the Party of Patchiszna Martszavka. Attorney General Vasiliev is silent! I will withdraw my offer and I will ask you to vote in favour of any guarantees to the deputies of the local council. In this country, we have to do something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u214	I'll put my fellow officers to the vote. Please reverse the vote. Bronnic, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u215	I have great respect for Mr. Carmazin, but I'd like to ask him not to distort the information. By judgment of the court, Mr. Marstavka, who repeatedly insulted the well-deserved people of the city, was sentenced to 15 days and did not appear before the court. I would therefore like to use reliable sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Carmazin has withdrawn his offer. But there's still an offer from the Cabinet of Ministers. I put it to a vote, this is Amendment No. 6 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[13:12:55]] For 109 Correction not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u217	Then the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u218	I put to the vote a motion for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill amending the Ukrainian law on the legal status of members of local councils. Registration No. 2475. Please vote. [[13:13:29]] For 405 The law is passed. A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on Social Protection of War Veterans and Victims of Nazi Persecution]] Dear Vasil Ivanovich, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the purpose of this law is to establish full legislation on the victims of Nazi investigations. Therefore, after the first reading, the Committee considered all the proposals that had been made and because we had not intended to reduce the benefits or increase the benefits, and the task had been to make a full-fledged law on victims of Nazi persecution, so we had adopted all the proposals that did not deal with the benefits. All that had reduced or increased the benefits, and three had come forward, the Committee had refused to consider and had not accepted those proposals. So in the comparative table that you got, there's a major ideology that we're not reducing or increasing the benefits. And the second moment is that the committee proposes to adopt the bill on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u220	No warning, dear colleagues? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on Social Protection of War Veterans and Victims of Nazi Persecution]] Registration No. 3383. Please vote. [[13:15:15]] For 376 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Indeed, the draft of the 2327 bill was introduced by the people’s deputies: Kluviv, Francis, Rudenk, Martinenko, Alexandrovsk and Rudzkowski. But since there was no comparable table at the time, we took it off the table. A group of deputies now insists that we look at this document. It's yours. It's about making changes to the U.K. Oil and Gas Act. That's why I'm voting. No, who's to look at it now. Please cancel the vote. Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u221	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Matthew, the Communist faction, head of the Rules Committee. If we do so again, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, we will again begin to violate the Rules. For today's day, the agenda we're going on is not included in this draft law, as we're looking at some of the other bills. And by the way, today it was handed out to the national deputies at the registration table alone, which is the draft law. I ask you not to violate the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u222	Thank you. I ask the National Deputies not to insist or force me to violate the Rules so that I can receive comments from the Rules Committee. The Ukrainian Amendment Act is announced in the class. Please change. Question taken. We're looking at a different question. Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u223	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would also like to draw your attention to what has just been said to the chairman of the regulatory committee. This bill cannot be considered, since only today a comparative table has been given out. We actually want to remind you that just when it came to the question of 4,105 amendments to the Constitution, it was exactly the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" that this bill could not be considered, because it had just been given a comparative table this morning, and yet you've put this question to the vote. So I would be very happy if the head of the Standing Committee would consistently hold that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u224	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two big differences that the bill was known to all and read by all who wanted it, and we've already removed the question. It's all Mikola Rudzkowski, I won't violate the Rules. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 20.12.2003, has been announced for consideration. Yes. Deputy Minister of Finance, Yaremenko Alexander Stepanovich. Very briefly, please. Prepare Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u225	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Sharing the full concern about the need to improve the social situation of teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers who work in public and municipal institutions located in villages and villages, the proposals of the President of Ukraine are as follows: "The Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws" adopted without financial and economic justification, which is contrary to the requirements of section 2 of article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget." According to previous estimates, it needs an additional budget cost of 2.3 billion. That's right. It is known that there is today a significant imbalance in financial security in the implementation of even valid laws to which changes are made. And this does not allow the full realization of the existing social guarantees, such as the setting up of fixed average wage workers at a level that is not lower than the wages of industrial workers and some others. Thus, the adoption of a law without taking into account real financial resources is seen as premature and likely to cause a negative social resonance because its standards cannot be met. In view of what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes that the law be rejected. Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u226	Please sit down, thank you, too. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u227	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On December 22 in the Supreme Council, 334 national deputies voted in favour of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws. [[on additional social guarantees for educational, scientific and medical workers living and working in establishments located in villages and villages]] We were guided by the need to correct the crisis in the village with teaching and medical personnel. Young prospective people leave the village because of an extremely low standard of living. The social infrastructure of the village remains completely exposed. There is a corresponding loss of any perspective for development and for the future village. Of course, we can't avoid the President's attention and remarks. The existing legislation provides a number of social guarantees to employees of the categories listed, but unfortunately, the lack of funds prevented them from predicting similar costs in the 2004 State Budget. So to make the right decision, you have to weigh all the pros and cons. Statistics indicate a steady rise in gross domestic product, and the government predicts an increase of up to seven percent. The revenue part of the budget will increase accordingly. There are 285,000 people working in public health institutions in the village. Experts. 160,000 medics, 235 educators. We estimate that an additional 230 million expenses are needed to meet the legal requirements. Considering that such socially important areas of the village have a very low level of staffing. Today, schools are made up of 60 percent in the countryside, 70 percent in medical facilities. As members of the Agrarian Committee, we feel it is necessary to adopt the prescribed bill. So I ask you to support the position of the Agrarian Policy Committee, which recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. Our committee is supported by the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. According to the committee, the bill is extremely necessary and timely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to certain laws of Ukraine. Registration number 2108. Please vote. [[13:23:14]] For-126 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to defeat the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, registration number 2108. [[13:23:50]] For 206 So the decision is not made. The law is rejected. Please, Lechchenka, with a motive. By factions, point it on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u229	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and especially the distinguished voters! I want to draw your attention to the populist, deceptive nature of the parliamentary majority in terms of people. The point is that they voted in favour of the 2004 antinational budget, which was deprived of the benefits of rural education, culture, and health care. Then they, the coordinator of the majority, introduced the bill. Now they don't support him. That's what most of you are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u230	Assadchev, please. The subject has already been considered. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u231	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, in this case, I think there's been a conflict. Because we voted for rejection. And it didn't. It was a direct vote for rejection, and it didn't go either. And it didn't go through with it. Thus, a double status has been established, and we need to find out. You cannot declare it rejected, for the Supreme Council voted and it did not receive the majority either. You can either go again, or you can go back to the committee. But legal status needs to be established now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u232	The Supreme Council has not taken a decision either, so the law has lost its power. A draft decree on the agreement of the location of the objects is being announced for consideration. Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u233	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has been asked to agree on the location of the objects. Having carefully considered these proposals, the committee shall introduce a draft decision to the Supreme Council on the following content: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: 1) Agree to the location of small hydroelectric plants in the closed shareholding company "Region-invest" on the land of the Rakhiv State Forestry Company, one hectare of particularly valuable land in the Zakarpatsky region for a 50-year lease; The Kiev-Harkov-Dowzhansky road to reconstruct its area is 207 kilometers, 209 kilometers, the Poltav Region Road Service, 3.2 hectares of land, of which 2.14 are particularly valuable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u234	Vladimir Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, you all have a draft decision on your hands. You don't have to read it, let's do it another way. If it's one of the national MPs. Yes, please, the committee's proposal, and then we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u235	Then I make a proposal to the committee: All these objects in the draft decree are carefully considered by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. The materials comply fully with the requirements of land legislation, consistent with the requirements of article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code with the relevant executive authorities and local authorities, landowners or land users, land administrations, environmental and epidemiological authorities, city building and architecture and cultural heritage protection. The materials provided have been processed by the State’s Earthly Expertise. In view of the committee’s presentation, he invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the decree as a basis and, if possible, as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u236	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move forward in this way: who has a point of reference. It's a motive. Who's the motive? Sign up for your motives. Yes, please explain. Yeah, three minutes. Hare, Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u237	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I propose to postpone consideration of the draft of this decree. Why? Because this decree was registered on February 12, and the Head of the Supreme Council had scheduled this decree to be considered by five committees. She only came to our committee yesterday, and to other committees, I don't think I've come yet. But when we analyze the subject matter of this decision, we see that all of these points apply to the powers of our committee. In particular, the first paragraph refers to, let's say, removal essentially, although this lease is leased to land from the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve. And there are special procedures for dealing with this land. So I suggest we put it off, look at this committee that's been called in, and look at it. I don't understand how she got into this room so fast when she was registered only on February 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u238	Thank you. Please. Then you write it down, then. Bubbles, please. Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u239	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I support my colleague John the Rabbit. I believe that such vital issues regarding the earth, such as the value of the earth, cannot be resolved so quickly. Rather, the bill should go through all committees interested in reaching conclusions. And I propose not to look at it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u240	Please, Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, I support the Hare in that part that these lands that are proposed to be removed are within a hectare of the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve. And there is a special status for the removal of such lands. However, the documents do not allow for accuracy. Some say that this refers to the areas of the Carpathian Reserve and some that it is in the area of the DLMH. And basically the license was taken from DLMH, and somehow the main user, the Zacarpathian Biosphere Reserve, was left out of focus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u242	Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u243	If the Supreme Council decides to postpone, we will not deny it. But once again, I say that all the physical organs: both the legal entities and the physical ones involved in this project, they all gave their consent, including the biosphere reserve, including the Minecores, and other organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. Let's maybe do it this way. If we have a reference to one of the points, we can remove it from this determination. If there is a general comment on the decision. So I'm voting on the proposal of several national MPs to reject this consideration, to postpone the consideration of this decision. Who's "for," please be sure? [[13:32:02]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Then I propose a decision to delete the item concerning the Zacarpathian Reserve. Who's in favour, please? With the exception of the Zacarpathian Reserve. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u245	The committee doesn't object. [[13:32:36]] For 335
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u246	It's been decided. Once again, with the exception of the item on Zakarpatta. Please, with the motivations of the Rabbit and the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u247	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I simply don't understand this policy of double standards. This is a grave violation of the parliamentary procedure. Four committees that have a direct bearing on this decision have not been considered. How can this bill be put to the vote today? What does this talk about? This tells us that we're dealing with direct lobbyism along the line of ensuring the mafia's interests in gas and oil production. I can't classify all of these operations anymore. So I'm saying once again that this decision is adopted in an illegal way. I protest against the kind of lobbyism that develops within us in the Supreme Council. Now you're removing the first point, as if here, you see, that committee is guilty that one didn't pass, and the other one passed, is finally a decision. You're sitting there in that chair to keep an eye on the procedure, the procedure is democracy. There's no procedure. There's no democracy. There's no right decision. I don't even understand the ethics and regulation committee as they observe these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u248	Dear John Alexander, you're right, but half. Because the decision was not made by the Chief, but by the session room. 114 national deputies supported your proposal. The 355 national deputies made a different decision by backing up yours. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u249	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I would like to point out that when we discussed this decision the day we voted for it, I don't remember it either. Is it not a violation of the Rules? That's the first one. We did not discuss it today because there was no discussion of how it was not possible for any of those who had a different opinion than those who voted to express their position. That's the first one. There was no discussion today. And the second. Indeed, when the committees did not give their resolution on how they, or committees of the Supreme Council, view a bill, it has no right to enter the session hall, that is what to talk about. As voted, this is another issue, but this vote was not meant to be. Remember, if it's not lobby projects, how long are they waiting for? A month or six months to get into the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u250	Please, Pussy, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u251	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Chairman! Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you not to have sex with Zaj.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u252	Thank you. We're still doing this. There is a draft Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities. [[Registration number 408]] We need to make a decision on the outcome of the first reading, which took place on February 18. No replicas yet. We have begun to consider a matter that is uninterrupted. Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u253	The Communist faction, the Radionov. Dear National Deputies! The bill was discussed yesterday. Committee Decision: To be accepted in the first reading. I just want to contact the national deputies for more information. First. This law has no basis for any national MP to vote in principle, as Pushkin said: "To the evil of a proud neighbour.".. This law provides, as you do not find strange, for measures that are available in all developed countries, for the protection of their own technologies and for the competitiveness of their products, and for measures that are available in all underdeveloped countries to protect their market from outdated technologies. So each of the people's deputies, as he thinks today, whether it's a developed country, whether it has one, is already in that country, and as they say, the signs of the underdeveloped country, but you can vote every one, because your conscience will be clean, and we can do a useful thing if it is accepted in the first reading, then in the second reading of the flaws you can do the same. There's an offer in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u254	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill in the first reading of the Act on State regulation of technology transfer activities. Take down the vote. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u255	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we've discussed this bill with you and supported it, most of it except for the creation of an executive body. I remind you where this is about, despite the fact that today there is a Ministry of Education and Science, a new executive body is being created by vertical authority, its authority and everything. I propose these articles, which relate to the creation of an organ, to exclude, or accept, because this is a concept, the first reading. I think my colleague Rodionov would agree with me because yesterday he seemed to agree during the discussion. So I'm asking you not to do that, except for these articles, there's a third, there's a sixth, because that's a concept. If the concept is accepted, then please don't have any warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u256	Yuri Anatoliyovich, but this meant that we already have this body, the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u257	I mean, Mikhail Kuzmich, the committee agrees with Karmazin's proposal. Okay, thanks. A quarrel with the motivations of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u258	I'm not motivated, Adam Ivanovich, I'm out of procedure. These. Which is suggested by Deputy Carmazin, unfortunately, does not coincide with 83 articles of the Constitution. I draw your attention to the fact that the subject of the legislative initiative in this case is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So to change the subject of a legislative initiative, which is an essential part of the right to legislative initiative, we have no right. This is the exclusive competence of the subject of the legislative initiative, which in this case is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u259	The Honourable People's Deputy means that the Cabinet of Ministers is also this authorized body, the Ministry of Science and Education. We don't have an extra creation, he's there and let him say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u260	Dear colleagues! Have a seat. Roman Mikhailovich, you're right, but you're still halfway there. This does not imply that the Cabinet of Ministers is the sole subject of the legislative initiative under the law or subject. It's not a salary or anything. The Cabinet of Ministers is here, but you and I are also subjects and legislative initiatives. It doesn't matter, first or any of the readings, we can delete them in the first reading. Yes, dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading of the deletion of articles relating to the body empowered to solve these problems. Please vote. [[13:41:28]] For 287 The law was adopted in the first reading with the deletion of the articles we spoke about. The question is being considered. Dear colleagues, we have the next question of amending the article of Ukraine's Third Act on Concession on the List of Objects. We have three bills here. Two bills, where the authors are Bogotirov and the Cabinet of Ministers, ask for the necessary justification and economic justification for the Cabinet of Ministers. I give my word to Goodimi. Please. He also has one of the bills here. Please, it's on, you speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u261	Goodima, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. I'd like to remind you of yesterday's discussion, it was extremely constructive. It continued tonight on the Supreme Council Committee and this morning in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Clovis. Thus, the Supreme Council cannot, without economic justification, decide on strategic objects that are either an oil transport or a gas transport system. So, the Cabinet of Ministers and the authors' bills, what they're done, that's normal. But I, the first to introduce my own bill, which gives the government one chance to introduce a special law to the Supreme Council and determine the possibility of transferring legislation into the concession. So I insist that my bill be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, don't worry, the reporter helped us all, and he told us that we were doing the right thing with you, that we had listened to his recommendations, including that there was no economic justification. There is also no economic justification for the Goodima People's MP's Bill. That's why all the bills are being transposed. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on road safety]] Legislative acts, registration numbers 4281, 4281-1. He's reporting to Nechiporek. We didn't get it, we're moving it. Dear colleagues, who, in order to postpone the consideration of these bills, until economic justification is given by the Cabinet of Ministers, as provided for in the Rules, please vote. It's a regulatory rule. [[13:45:09]] For 284 Thank you for upholding the standard. Once again, all the bills that relate to one or the other expenses or additions to the state budget, and so on, and so forth, should necessarily have the Cabinet of Ministers' conclusions. 284 — The question is being asked. Please, Goodima, one minute out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u263	Dear National Deputies! I recognize the right of the Supreme Council to make decisions and to make decisions. But when I told you that there were bills that needed economic justification, you admitted that the first two needed. My bill doesn't need any justification for what's in the explanatory note. And that's why I'd just like to explain to you that my bill has defined the rules of conduct of subjects who may or may not be concessional. And I understand that you've made your decision, but I think it's necessary to make it clear that Adam Ivanovich as Head, well, did a little bit of soul-breathing that, by the way, it's not the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u264	Thank you. Sorry, the explanatory note to the bill is not the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers. The National MP can write what he wants, in an explanatory note, and the Cabinet of Ministers has to give economic justification. Questions are passed on. There is a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on road safety. Bills number 4281, 4281-1. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u265	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, thank you, distinguished colleagues! And I'm going to ask you for a moment to listen, because the question is very serious. A committee on law enforcement. Well, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u266	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u267	amending certain legislation on road safety, registration number 4281. The bill proposes to amend a number of articles of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations and the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act in order to increase the liability of drivers for certain offences in the area of road safety. I'm going to pause a little bit and say, for the crimes that are called the grossest, the drunk and the traffic. So even after the introduction of the rules that will allow for the consideration of administratives, where drivers agree, where they disagree, in the courts, and on which they agree, to decide to pay the fines directly to the bank or to the savings. In this regard, respectable colleagues, there is a great deal of talk about what such a thing is. I beg you, 64 percent of administrators have not been considered by the courts today, i.e. 64 percent of road traffic violators have not been held responsible. And you know what violates crime is its irresponsibility. The committee has decided to recommend and ask you to support this bill. In addition, the Scientific Advisory Office, our Supreme Council, has also decided to support this bill in the first reading and, in the second reading, to unify all these bills and to make it better for the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u268	Vladimir Pavlovich, who is proposing support. There's two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u269	Law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u270	I understand, I know what your committee is called. You tell me which of the two bills is supported by the committee, there are two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u271	Supports 4281.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u272	Author of who?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u273	The author is the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u274	Okay. There's a lot of people out there. Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Dry. Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u275	Thank you. I'd like to give it to my colleague, Masurenko Volodymyr Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u276	Please turn Mazurenko on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u277	Thank you. Vladimir Pavlovich Nechiporak said a little bit wrong because the committee supported two bills. These bills are not alternatives, they're two very different bills. My bill amends article 15 of the Road Movement, which prohibits DAI employees from removing a certificate, which is not in the bill proposed by the President. So since my bill was supported by the committee, I would like to have the hall also support my Bill No. 4281 with badge 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u278	Thank you. Please, Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, thank you for giving me the opportunity to express my opinion on the committee as well. The bill, submitted on behalf of the President, essentially caused a storm of deliberation on the committee in view of the fact that the position proposed to drivers who agree to pay a fine on the spot and do not refute what they have committed is contrary to article 125 of the Constitution, which specifically states that these cases should be tried by the courts. And granting permission to look at it on the spot by the police is a step backwards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u280	Thank you. Please, Omelchenko Gregory. There's no Omelchenka. Then Carmazin. Sorry, it's not Carmazin. It's Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u281	I'm asking you to turn me on, turn the timer back on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u282	Please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u283	Adam Ivanovich, thank you for seeing me. The honourable national MPs, in fact, this bill, both of these bills are absolutely reactive, are such that they demean the honour and dignity of Ukrainian citizens, they come up against their rights. And so, I propose that both of these bills be rejected, they don't suit society's interests, and they're looking at a code of road traffic laws, where they can fully predict it. And I'm addressing Vladimir Pavlovitch. You're a professional, tell me honestly, put your hand on the heart that you've been forced to report today. It's just a hoax.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u284	Thank you. Volodymyr Pavlovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues! We've already turned into a discussion. That's a little different. Have a seat, please. I remind you again, we're looking at two bills. For both bills, I confirm Mazurenko's words, there are positive conclusions from the relevant committee. I'll put it to a vote in this order. It is up to the vote to adopt the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on road safety in the first reading. [[Registration number 4281]] [[13:54:18]] For 104 Overruled. It is based on the first reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on road safety. [[Registration number 4281-1]] [[13:54:50]] For-60 Both projects were rejected. I'm announcing that we're continuing our meeting for 15 minutes in the morning. Here we go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act to remove the licenses. We have three bills: registration numbers 4507, 4507-1, 4446. In the same order, if there's no objection, let's go with you and be determined. It is up to the vote to adopt, on the basis of the first reading, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Road Traffic on the Elimination of Licenses (registration number 4507, introduced by the National MP Kravchenk. Take off the vote, please. Dear colleagues, I understand that those who are concerned about this are especially concerned right now, and this law applies to all of us, because some of us are driving and others are walking. But those who drive and those who walk walk under the same law. So please get your jobs together and let's determine the fate of these bills. I'll bet you a vote. Rudzkowski, please. And I won't say a word to anyone else. Don't raise your hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u285	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you not to use the Rules when you are comfortable and when you are not comfortable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u286	Please turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Traffic for the Removal of Licenses. Bill No. 4507, the author of the bill, National MP Kravchenko. Please vote. [[13:57:19]] For 235 The Law was adopted in the first reading. There's a bill amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, bill number 4507-1. [[concerning the deletion of the certificate]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:57:52]] For-67 The bill was rejected. The bill amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, Bill 4446, is voted on. [[concerning the deletion of the certificate]] [[13:58:21]] For-53 So this bill is rejected. Yes, Oreste Klimpush, please, what are the proposals of the First Law Committee? Can we put it all together? No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u287	There is a denial that the law was passed in the first reading. Dear colleagues, the law was passed in the first reading. Here we go to the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on liability for violations of the Road Traffic Regulations]] Bills number 2623, 2623-1, 2623-3. Dear colleagues besides Rudzikowski, there is still a denial of the reporter who reported here from the committee, Klimpush. Hence, the law in the first reading. Please vote on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, Bill No. 2623. Karnauha's bill. [[14:00:04]] For-9 The bill was rejected. The draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Road Traffic Rules is put to the vote. Registration number 2623-1. The author of the Kirill bill. Please be determined. [[14:00:48]] For 1 Well, that's interesting. Please, by the factions, who's the only one? "Regions of Ukraine." The thing is, the region was asked the most to show which one of the factions voted. The draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Road Traffic Rules is put to the vote. Bill registration number 2623-3. The author of the Kosinov bill. [[14:01:44]] For-7. This is a slightly better situation, but the law is still outlawed. From what? Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u288	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you and I have discussed six drafts that actually relate to the same problem. One rule on banning the removal of a driver’s license directly by DAI’s workers on the road. One of them was accepted. It's about the only change. I ask, let's go back and vote in the second reading and in general this document. Because it doesn't require any further discussion, thank you. 4507.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u289	Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u290	Yuri Lucenko, Socialist faction, member of the Transport Committee This law was discussed on our committee. He had no, no claims. I support my colleague that there's only one norm that doesn't need any clarification or interpretation. You can't take the DAI driver's license today, this rule is suspended today. The DAI's orders are suspended by the Henprocurator. Let's decide today, let's put it all in place once and for all. You can't take a driver's license. Let us bring this matter to an end today. Please put to the vote and vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Who wants us to go back to considering the adoption of the law in the second reading, please identify ourselves? [[14:04:14]] For 268. For the reasons of Klimpus, please, before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u292	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to focus a little bit on the subject. Our committee has considered this situation carefully and fully supports the requirement that there is no way on the road to get out of the driver’s license. At the same time, some right reasonings were expressed. For example, when an accident occurred, when there was some damage when there were casualties. Therefore, we need to approach calmly, and we are working on a second reading through. literally, for the next vote, ready to pass this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, calm down. There's actually one sentence that can't be deleted. So either we support it, or we don't support it, and we don't need a stack of papers yet, then we multiply and we waste time again. That's why I'm voting. Who's in favour of adopting, in the second reading and as a whole, as a law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act on the removal of licenses, registration number 4507, please vote. [[2:06:01]] For 304 Thank you, the law has been passed. I say thank you, you're making me a fair point. Let's move on to the question of the draft Act amending the Code of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I've announced that we're working until 14:15. There is a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the violation by drivers of taxi drivers of the rules on the use of means of transport. We were looking at it yesterday, this bill, registration number 3497. Please vote. [[14:07:02]] For 210 Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues. Now, now the Master. Dear colleagues, I understand that we are all pleased that we have passed a fair law not to delete the certificates. But now there is no less important law that stipulates that the number of people in taxis is being transported, which is allowed by the rules and technical capabilities of the car, so that there is not only sitting there but also sitting on the roof. So let's please support this project. The Law on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences for Violations by Drivers of Road Taxi Operators of the Regulations on the Exploitation of Vehicles, registration number 3497, is on the vote. Author of National Deputy Masters. Please vote. [[2:08:21]] For 284 Thank you, 284, decision taken. The committee proposes to support it as a matter of law as a whole. Who's in favour, please vote. There is a denial in the first reading. There is a draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences. Registration number 3736. Please, please. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:09:17]] Z-85 Overruled. There's a project called "The Approval of the State Innovation Programme for the Fashion Industry by 2010", registration number 3107-d. Please be kind. [[14:09:56]] For - 246 Will there be any changes to the decision? Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of the ruling in general. Vote. [[14:10:20]] For 260 It's been decided. There is a draft decree on parliamentary hearing recommendations, Ukraine's foreign policy as a tool to ensure the national interests of the state: gains, realities and prospects. There are two projects here, 4601 and 4601-1. In that order, I'm going to lay the groundwork. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u294	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, may I have your attention, regardless of how everyone prepares for recess. A very important draft decision, all of you have taken an active part in the parliamentary hearings that contribute to our country's foreign policy. All the factions have, in fact, spoken. Two bills for Decrees 4601 and 4601-1 have been drafted. The first 4601 heard twice on a committee in foreign affairs, with a positive conclusion from the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. They also supported Bill 4601. There was also 4601-1, which was twice considered by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but was supported by the first draft of Decree 4601, which most fully, according to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, reflects the direction of Ukraine's foreign policy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u295	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. That's the order we're going to be voting on. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Ukrainian Foreign Policy as a tool to ensure the national interests of the State, to gain realities and perspectives" is put to the vote on the basis of draft Bill No. 4601. [[14:12:49]] For 316 It's been decided. A draft regulation on the establishment of a Special Parliamentary-Governmental Commission on the coordination of the activities of the authorities and the public with regard to the integration of Ukraine into the World Trade Organization is under consideration. [[pre-worked version]] We've seen this before. 4129. Please, Bezpali. I will give my word to those who have suggestions for this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u296	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! We looked at it a week ago and accepted it as a basis. After that, some suggestions were made, and I am very grateful to the committee that the proposals I made were practically all taken into account. Politically, she needs to be supported, a good decision. But one economic aspect and, in my opinion, the deputies should take that into account. I'm asking for your attention. It's written like that. To entrust the Office and the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide a joint parliamentary commission with premises, means of transport, communications, or technical equipment and so on. Once again, the rich Supreme Council is relying on the maintenance of the government. I propose to replace it with the words, "Proposing the Cabinet of Ministers that initiated it, putting material security on it," it's much more resourceful. We don't have any security on our boards. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-19-m0.u297	Dear colleagues! I think Boris Yakovic is 200 percent right. This is the first joint government-parliamentary commission. Our committees, we have recently heard, Matthew has reported so much that there is nowhere to put them. I think the Cabinet of Ministers will provide good conditions for this commission to work productively. Please support this proposal. [[14:15:07]] For 350. Thank you. Then, with the Bespalog proposal that we supported, I'm voting on the whole to adopt the Order "On the Establishment of a Special Parliamentary Governmental Commission on SOTA", registration number 4129. Vote. A joint, joint commission. [[14:15:38]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two questions short. One minute, shall we vote? Especially hunting, there's a Pigeon and a Hare. A pigeon and a hare about hunting. Then there are two regulations, the draft Decree on Kabmin's Information on the Conservation and Purpose of Societies. assignment", registration number - 4599. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[14:16:20]] For 211 Dear colleagues, then after the break we consider. A break of 16 hours is announced.
