ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:55]] Registered -419 There were 419 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the People's People's People's People's People's People's People's National Deputy Group "Democratic Initiatives". Dear colleagues, the list of issues to be considered today, you have. Let us go to their consideration. A draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, a previously approved draft of a group of Ukrainian national deputies with the conclusions of the Constitutional Court, is being announced for consideration. What? What?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in view of the attempted seizure of the premises by a group of unknown persons, I ask that you give me one minute to do so. Thirty with an extra man is the colossal, you know, colossal, that you went to in the state. You haven't been told. We've rewrote them now. They didn't report it. Razorheads with spikes, with everything, do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u3	Honorable National MPs. Please take your seats. I haven't given you my word yet. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A group of national deputies suspected that they would be in position, please. Sit down, please. A group of national deputies suspected that an unknown group had been set up in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I took care of it and gave the task of handling the matter. I have a report that I have been conducting training, instructional training. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to me. Representatives of the Department of State Security who work here. Since there's no room to gather people, they're going to either be in the conference room when he's free or on the third floor. In this case, they presented the necessary certificates. In order not to aggravate the situation, I now ask the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Zinchenko, to ask the head of the Committee on the Rules of Valentin Matthew to find out the matter and to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on to the question. Dear colleagues, such a procedure is proposed. Calm down, sit down, please. I'm asking you, Your Honor, if you want to upset the Supreme Council, get the system out of order, I'll put it to a vote with a raise of hands, and then there'll be 400 votes. Is that what you want to do? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Please. I won't give you my word, calm down. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We agreed, let's do our job properly. And we'll give everyone the opportunity to express their position. We'll allow everyone to demonstrate their position freely on the bill. Let's create all the prerequisites for that. I beg of you, fellows of honor! The following procedure is proposed: For a report from the Temporary Special Commission up to 15 minutes, an answer to a question of up to 10 minutes, with a separate thought to speak to Alexander the Frost and John the Rabbit in 10 minutes, statements from factions to five minutes, to five minutes. [[Calm down!]] [[Calm down, I'm asking you, if you don't mind.]] The rest of the time, all of us are scheduled to spend five hours talking to Ukrainian national deputies. I'm asking the temporary special commission of Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today, in this session room, we are concluding a nearly five - year discussion on reform of the Ukrainian system of government. It was launched in 99th year by a well-known bill introduced by the opposition led by Alexander Alexander Moroz, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and others. We have passed a complex historical path of mutual conflicts, compromises at the same time, by holding a April referendum aimed at strengthening the Presidential vertical of power itself, and we have concluded that Ukraine, in modern conditions of national development, requires a new modern European model that would allow not only the creation of power as an effective tool of progress, but also the achievement that all authorities could serve the interests of each Ukrainian. A temporary special commission that has worked for a long time to find not only a perfect legal text but also a compromise in this bill has done everything possible to reach you with the perfect document. But at the same time, we report that when we've finished working on it, we've discovered a whole range of different problems that will require further legislative changes to the Constitution in the current legal field of Ukraine. And Bill 4105, which is the main topic for discussion today, went through a difficult path of discussion in the session hall through the vote of his 24 December and the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, which recognized him in accordance with the requirements of Article 158 of the Constitution through an extraordinary session that took place at the very request of the opposition forces of Parliament. We have come out of the need to sign the widest possible compromise that has led to a broad coalition in support of political reform. He allowed this bill to be removed, not only from the position of national politicians, but also from the position of the European world public, from the rules governing the election of the President in Parliament, to leave a valid editorial on the indefinite election of judges. We came out of the fact that this not only has a perfect impact on the formation of the system of power, but it also builds enough serious bridges between those who are trying to reform Ukrainian power in the name of Ukraine, by defining its way through changes to the Constitution, had every chance of becoming a prosperous Ukrainian European state. Dear colleagues, the problem with this law is that the current current current constitution, by creating an appropriate presidential-parliamentary form of government, has incorporated better gains into it, especially the entire presidential system of government, rather than balancing the relationship between the branches of government. In the current constitution of the construction of a model of power, there is a fundamental historical conflict, which under any circumstances will always turn Ukraine into a whole field of competition, where first the highest nomenclature of authority will use power to allow those who are the ones who are the ones who are the most corrupt of its development today. So of course, a challenge that is actually being made today for the entire world community means that Ukraine is demonstrating this path publicly and openly, showing that the test of finding a perfect system of power is not just a Ukrainian mission -- it is a mission of any nation, any state of the world, because power depends on the most efficient way of development. Bill 4105 actually foresees 85 amendments and amendments to the 29th articles of the current Constitution. You could say that 40 percent of these changes are built on what's being proposed either in the Constitution to include new articles or parts of them that are essential to creating new balances of restraint systems that would allow for any usurpation at this time, any increase in the individual branch of power becomes impossible. The task of this model, which is proposed for your consideration, is to create authority in which the system of internal compromises required internal balance to take responsible decisions in the name of national interest. This means only one thing: That each branch of authority must first care for the social interests. We believe that the task of these changes is that the authority that, as a result of the changes to the Constitution, can perform its functions is built on the principle of internal compromise, not conflict. And the shift of responsibility for social development to the Cabinet of Ministers allows us to say that any decision that will be taken within the system of government is built in search of a common position to determine the main thrust of the reformist development of Ukraine and the main strategic pathways of Ukraine's existence in the global world. From the point of view of the model, it's pretty straightforward, but at the same time it's not a ring from any of the world's famous government models that could give us an answer to the question, what's the government practice going to be like in the next. The president of Ukraine, losing some of his authority, never ceases to be a strong figure. From its own institution, which is now practically making major decisions in the state, it becomes a political arbitrator in power and for the nation. He receives additional parliamentary discharge powers in case a political parliamentary coalition is not established in Parliament and he is given additional opportunity to dissolve parliament when Parliament fails to agree on the Prime Minister's candidacy and create the Cabinet of Ministers. And finally, it has a major impact on the actual organization of power relations, having the right to a minister's own appointment through Parliament. [[Applause]] Thank you. On Thursday, the gift of "our Ukraine" means water. It's very symbolic. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, therefore, the President, in influencing the administration of the system of power, has the opportunity to present his own candidatures related to the functions he performs as a guarantor of national security, a constitutional grant in Ukraine. These are the candidates of the defence minister, the candidates of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and this is the candidate of the foreign minister, or foreign political authority. Thus, leaving the President with virtually all external political activity means that the President remains the most influential figure on the outside. equal relations between Ukraine and the outside world. It is he who forms foreign policy and thus obliges other branches of authority to work effectively with him. The Cabinet of Ministers is given new powers in principle. This is a mandate that is traditionally known in Europe today, but, unfortunately, in Ukraine so far, the main problem is that the Cabinet of Ministers cannot really perform its functions because it is a hostage to the relationship between the President and the Ukrainian Parliament. And so every year, we see a change in the Cabinet itself. In fact, before the drafters of this bill there were two directions: either to make the President the head of executive power, or to make the President an extremely important position as political arbitrator and to pass on all possibilities for shaping a socio-economic development strategy to the Cabinet of Ministers. Moreover, the strengthening of the political thrust of the changes to the Constitution provided for in Law 4105 leads to the Government being given a political mandate from the political coalition, which is actually the main institution for the formation of political and responsible power. Thus, if you take a risk under this brief analysis of the model provided for in Bill 4105, you can understand that there is a chance in Ukraine that changes will be made to the Constitution and that you can actually go to a politically responsible, public, open, national-interested authority. Moreover, if this law were to put at risk today a very important debate on the transition to a new type of society, when the political component involved in expanding the function of political parties would play a key role. What's the matter? You and I have adopted two important strategic laws on election to all the organs of the representative system of government. And they predict a proportional element. It might be noted that this is not a better model that exists in Europe, but a very powerful step that allows today to actually create a whole system of power that builds on the position of the electorate. And given this situation, it's logical that Bill 4105 states that it is necessary to create a political parliamentary coalition that is either built in accordance with the political agreement of the winning parties in the elections or that one party in the election has won such a victory. So, dear colleagues, we have before us, from our point of view, a fairly perfect legal and simultaneously political model that can provide stable Ukrainian development. Is there a flaw in this law? No doubt. We had a very long discussion as to what might be in the interests of the electorate and, A society with an imperative mandate, when it is the highest governing body of the party that is given the right to deprive a deputy of the mandate that he receives from the electorate is not the best democratic step against which the Venice Commission and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe object. But we understand that this is the price of compromise, and that's why and the Temporary Special Commission, as a minimum of two thirds of its composition, supported unanimously that this political compromise should be realized by the way we vote today in the session room. We also didn't see the need to write in the Transitional Regulations a rule that the Constitution should formulate a position on the type of electoral model, but we understand perfectly that without it we can't talk about any progress in the development of Ukrainian power. There must be other flaws. I think my colleagues will talk about them. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the Temporary Special Commission finally approved the text of Bill 4105 for your vote yesterday at its meeting. You're going through it. Time has been studied, analyzed and debated, and today in your will, whether we will conclude a positive discussion about the 5-year-old, our conversation with you regarding changes to the Constitution positively, and thus give Ukraine a new impetus to the modernization process, or whether we will leave the system of power in the kind in which it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Report completed. Please sign up for the question. Razwadowski, Victor Razwadowski, People's Rule Group. 10 minutes according to the Rules, we ask questions. On the board, please, your name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, I have two questions for you. The first question is, are you prepared to consider the proposal to exclude a proportional system from the bill? And secondly, I want to hear and to hear from all the people of our country what is your personal attitude toward closed lists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the subject of the discussion of the temporary special commission was the possibility of amending Bill 4105 after returning from the Constitutional Court. On the basis of articles 150, 152 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court's decision of 9 June 1998, which states that any amendment to the Constitution can lead to the fact that the Constitutional Court is forced to conclude. At the stage of our prior approval, we have come to the conclusion that we are proposing to the Supreme Council to make a decision without making any changes to Bill 4105. At the same time, we offer to vote, not in an articleistic manner, but once. For this there is an appropriate position in the Constitution itself, which states in article 155 that it is a bill previously approved in one session that is finally approved in another as a bill. And that's why we think that this bill, which is submitted to the session room, is the only concept and any deletion from it could lead to it losing its legal essence and status as one that is approved by the Constitutional Court and allowing us to accept it in 300 votes as a final document. As for the second question, I am negative about closed lists, and you know that, because I was the author of a law that offered exactly open lists, where voters, not parties, determine the seat of a deputy after his election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u8	Please explain the names of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u9	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear reporter! I have four questions. First. Elections during local self - government and the Supreme Council will cost up to 360 million to 400 million additional government budgets. Was the commission aware of this when it agreed to this position? One second. Where the Council of the National Bank will go, which is now appointed by the President in changing powers, when the new text of the Constitution will refer to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Question three. Today, at the time of the adoption of the international treaties, the signing of the mandatory Prime Minister's signature. That is to say, the President's decision is being consolidated by the Prime Minister's signature. Sadly, this position fell out in the new text. And it's essential. And the last. On condition, if.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u10	As far as the timing of the elections is concerned. We had a discussion on this and yesterday at the President's meeting, and we agreed that there would be changes to the Constitution, which would be organized literally in this session in order to align the elections of the local authorities, where the four-year term of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is really in line with the current Constitution. And so we're going to unify this election term in five years for all of Ukraine's institutions. With regard to the National Bank, nothing changes. This position didn't fall out. And it's regulated by the Banking and Banking Act. As for the third question, I think we have strengthened the function of the government today, because we have introduced a so-called consigature of an act where making any decision requires strengthening not only the Prime Minister's signature, but also the identity minister responsible for it. Thus, neither the signing of an international agreement nor the issuance of a Presidential Decree is possible until this decree is signed, including the corresponding Minister of Profiles, who will be responsible for the implementation of this decree, if it relates to the actions of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u11	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u12	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u13	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I first have a request to include a sound in the courtyard in front of the Supreme Council so that all those gathered near the Supreme Council may hear what is happening in the hall. This is the first request. And the second question I have is to both the rapporteur and the Head of the Supreme Council: do you know that there is a letter at the address of the Supreme Council from the Head of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. Schider, who makes a clear statement to PARJA about what you call constitutional reform. And why wasn't Mr. Scheder's request to familiarize himself with this letter from the National Deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u15	Since this question is practically not addressed to me, I can only tell you that the question of change in the Constitution is a national question, it's a question of our legislative body, a question of our national interest. And we have a lot of respect for the Paris recommendations, for the world's expert institutions, we've taken part in the discussions of the Venice Commission on a number of occasions. We have received broad support from the model itself for making changes to the Constitution, for the transition to the parliamentary-presidential form of government. Moreover, the Venice Commission, on which I personally attended with Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, expressed satisfaction that it was Parliament that became a more important political institution in Ukraine. Of course, there were critical remarks. And so did we. Two of them, these critical remarks, we've been implementing an extracurricular session that has shown that we're basically ready for these compromises. Along with this, the document that you are proposing is the result of the internal political compromise itself and, of course, we have come out of the potential of all the political forces that have taken part in supporting political reform to support this bill. That's why it's one that can be at this time, actually, based on that model of parliament that we have with you to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u16	With regard to broadcasts, dear colleagues, there will be no denying that we would be good enough to turn the broadcast on on the street? You don't? So we're making a decision. As for Mr. Schider's letter, we are now actively looking for such a letter, which is not yet in Parliament. If he does, we will certainly get to know the national MPs. Now we're looking for a document like this, and when it comes out, we're going to contact Strasbourg. Please, it's the "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u17	Your Honor, I'm sorry you couldn't make the report with a voice. So it certainly also symbolically describes the quality of what you're proposing to this room. Now, from the question essentially. Please tell us how you feel about the proposal, such as Alexander Moroz and the law under number 4105-1 in the section on the authorization of the Cabinet of Ministers and the subordination of governors. I think if you didn't go through a way that's not going to go through today, but through really compromise, you could get 400 votes in this room exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u18	Thank you. Thank you for your sympathy for my voice. I think on this day when the secret Communion was discovered, we all have to be patient with each other and perhaps not notice any particular problem, paying attention to the voice, to everything else. With regard to Alexander Alexandrovich’s proposal, we discussed it more than once. On Saturday, Saturday at the working group, we discussed exactly eight compromise proposals, including the fact that the 2006 governors, or heads of the district government, were appointed by the President. [[You see, my voice gets better after your question.]] At the same time, this requires not going back to the old text, but making changes to the existing text. And we think that this kind of risk could only be justified if, for example, the initiators of this proposal, as we understand it, is the faction of "Our Ukraine," would agree that they support the vote of 400 votes in favour of the change to the Constitution. At the same time, unfortunately, we were unable to sign such a political agreement during this time. I personally believe that the dichotomy that is now in power, when the Cabinet of Ministers does not have its own vertical, is very dangerous for further effective development in Ukraine as a whole and the executive branch of its functions. This will not balance the system -- it will lead to a permanent conflict, especially at the level of action of the Cabinet of Ministers, the local authorities of self-government and the Presidential branch of government. In addition, in the new model, the concept of the President's institution is slightly different from that of today. And so it may be simplified to approach the fact that the President must be given this particular function, it may seem necessary to transfer the President simply to an administrative resource.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u19	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. Time's up. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, regarding a letter from Mr. Schieder. The fact is that yesterday our delegation, which returned from the Parliamentary Assembly, brought a copy of this letter, which was delivered this morning. And there's no official letter. If you don't mind, we'll distribute a copy of this letter to the national deputies. Boris Ilchi, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I can just announce this letter. There's nothing complicated here. We just went to Istanbul, where it happened. The office that set out the work plan for the next April session. Dear Head, I refer to your letter with information on recent constitutional reforms in Ukraine and the assurance of the efforts of the executive and legislative branches of power to carry out democratic reforms, in accordance with the Council of Europe standards, in the context of Assembly resolution 1364. Copies of your letter were handed to the members of the Bureau of the Assembly at its March 1st meeting. They were also distributed to Mr. Rahanski among the members of the Monitoring Committee. In this connection, I am adding a copy sent to my address on March 12th, which is a letter sent by his co - reporter in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u21	Microphone, please, Boris Olinick, to finish my opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u22	Yeah, thanks. I'm done. Although Mrs. Severinsen confirms that the recent changes taken separately can be recognized as progressive steps taken in accordance with the resolution, I must inform you that I fully share the deep concern of the two co-reporters about the future process of reform and the situation of the media in your country. I would be very grateful if you would bring the contents of this letter and Mrs Severinsen's letter to the Supreme Council and to the Government of Ukraine in the context of a valid monitoring procedure. That's what I'm doing, because we only got back from the Assembly Bureau yesterday, where we got this letter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u23	Yes, thank you, Boris Illy. Matvienka, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u24	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, then multiply the letter Severinsen, then it will be clear what it is. But I took it upon myself to point out that Mr. Havrish, who from the rostrum, lyingly, used my name regarding the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission did not support the fact that Bill 4105 made many critical remarks. Including, in addition to withdrawing the election of the President in Parliament, the imperative mandate, the increased powers of the Prosecutor's Office, the non-compliance with the Constitution, all of this has been ignored. And Mr. Havrish goes out to this rostrum and tells lies to the entire Ukrainian people. Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's time to put an end to this. High institutions cannot be covered in order to make an anticonstitutional coup in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! In line with the decision we made yesterday, a separate opinion from the Temporary Special Commission in the event of its presence is announced at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine within 5 minutes by its author and discussed at the same time as the Commission's main report. Then we have the word to speak with a separate opinion by Alexander Alexander Moroz. To prepare the Rabbit and, in addition, Michaela Catherinechuk. We'll have three separate thoughts. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u26	Dear Head! Dear national MPs, radio listeners! What's the whole point of this? It goes on to say that a society that is not very concerned about political reform today should be convinced by the reform of the power system that the Supreme Council is making a really important, I would say, decision-making decision. And in order to convince society, there is one mechanism -- not just by more than 300 votes, but by a large majority vote. The faction of "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Timoshenko" can provide such a vote. Therefore, my first concern is that of them. I would like you to confirm in the course of the discussion the willingness to vote in favour of my version of the bill, which includes everyone, I stress, all the conditions that you have proposed to avoid the known risks. Those proposals that we signed together in Memorandum Four a year ago. I quote some of them that are both reflected in this document and in a general document from the Constitutional Court. It says that we are in favour of preserving the existing terms of the President, the Supreme Council, the authorities of local self-government. It provides, in a memorandum, that the elections on a proportional basis, I emphasize, the national deputies of Ukraine and the local self-government bodies except the village councils, the village councils, I'm in discussion with what yesterday sounded like the breakdown of self-government on the basis of a law adopted yesterday. It stipulates that a coalition is being formed in Parliament, that the appointment and release of the Prime Minister's Parliament is being carried out with the appointment of the President, the strengthening of Parliament's responsibility or the application of the mechanisms for his discharge by the President in cases of thirty days of non-formation of the coalition, 60 days of non-forming of the Cabinet of Ministers, and that the President's supervisory and supervisory functions for the observance of the rule of law and so on are envisaged. I repeat, I quote a memorandum that we all co-signed a year ago from four then joint opposition factions. Once again signed by Yushchenko, Simonenko, Frost and Timoshenko. Next. My bill does not violate the procedure laid down in chapter 14 of the Constitution. It contains not even the deletion mentioned in the decree, it contains a technical separation of what poses certain threats and is unnecessary in this bill. In particular, inserting it in four months, and other things. The project envisions changes not earlier than the 2004 presidential election. It preserves the singleness of the elections to the Supreme Council and the local authorities without the additional conditions discussed in the session hall yesterday. I don't touch others, I emphasize once again, isolation. The text of the bill is given to you, it can be analyzed by you, it's shorter, so less amendments to the current Constitution. He's in line with the Constitutional Court's conclusions, and that's very important. He is, I emphasize, beneficial to all political entities in the following political companies. It's convenient because it's the same for all the candidates for the President's election this year. It meets the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And basically, it's good for society because it guarantees the democratization of all power relations and it won't allow anyone to take one-on-one adventures like Iraq's, the price of bread, privatization and everything that makes our people's lives intolerable. I suggest you take a close look at this document. Before the vote, I ask the chairman to announce a meeting of the temporary conciliator, if you will excuse me, so that we can see what we have, how many votes we have, how many votes we have in the session room, so that people can understand, take the step that society has been waiting for, which we have been striving for for for many years in an uneasy, complex political struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u27	No questions asked. Dear colleagues, there are no questions to be asked. Assadchev is a replica. Please have your last name mentioned. All right, I insist you mention it. Well, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u28	I hope so. Valerius Assadchev. I hope that we have taken time to have a thorough discussion on all subjects and to find out what is going on. Let's be correct. When this memorandum was signed, Alexander Alexanderovich, there was only one law, 3207, which was made by opposition. And we were all four factions on this bill at the time. And it was in his view that this memorandum was signed, where we, by the way, demanded the abolition of state administrations and the restoration of local self-government. After that, you and the Communists rejected this bill and switched to Bill 4105. So now we don't have to put that memo in the Bush Bill. Today we are ready to consider Bill 3207 and are ready to support it. But you don't support him anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u29	John the Rabbit. Please. One minute, Ivan Alexanderovich. I'm sorry. Alexander Frost, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u30	I have great respect for the arguments of Valery Assadchev. But he's wrong. I'll say so. This document was signed on September 14, 2003. And the 3207 bill and other bills were already under consideration in November, and the procedure began. So I strongly ask, this document is general, it describes the attitude of all the opposition forces towards the essence of political reform, the reform of the system of power. So be careful when you use one or the other arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u31	Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u32	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! My individual opinion as a member of the Temporary Special Commission on the proposed blocks of oligarchs and Communists under the patronage of President Leonid Kuchma, constitutional changes I have on page 21 and distributed in the Hall. In the absence of time, I will not be able to publish the entire text. Therefore, according to the Rules, I request that this material be added to the full scope of the transcript of this meeting. And now, in fact, it's a matter of fact. This morning, when I went to Parliament, people came up to me and said, "What's going to happen today in the Supreme Council?" I told them that.. and the coup d'état would continue, which was called to preserve and strengthen the power of oligarchs and mafias, to weaken Ukrainian statehood. What is the essence of the ideas of constitutional reform proposed by the oligarchs? The point was to continue the mandate of the President-in-Office. But with the efforts of our Ukraine and with the support of Ukrainian citizens, we have reflected these anti-national proposals. Then they went to another scheme -- to take the right of the people to elect a president and change their lives for the better. Similarly, because of our performances, because of the performances of the citizens, we have reflected this scheme. So they went on to circumcise the President's mandate. Instead of putting a doll in place of a full-fledged Presidential institution, this President will not be able to exercise his powers properly. So everything is being done today to hand power over to the Mafia without waiting for elections in 2004. That's the point. How can I call these actions that take place in the hall not a constitutional coup when the bill has not passed a previous summons? The so - called preliminary draft is made up of two decisions of the Supreme Council on December 24 last year and February 3, this year. You know that no one in the world admitted to the vote on February 24. The people called this vote even - hoofing, because no one has been up for years, so some signatures have been made, no one has counted these hands, no one has published to this day the signatures by which the vote has been sealed? The other one. The Supreme Council of the third of February similarly adopted a decision that was not included in the constitutional procedure, since the third of February was not another session. Third. Today we are asked to adopt a bill, but no one is saying that the Constitutional Court has a constitutional submission of the National Deputies on the unconstitutionality of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since the third of February. And the two constitutional judges, that's Savannah and Shapoval, in their individual opinion, are just confirming the requirements of this constitutional court. What are you doing, dear friends? Where is compliance with the Constitution? Where is compliance today? When it comes to the quality of these changes, do they endure any criticism? We are invited to extend the mandate of deputies to five years. This means that the people will not be able to influence this authority today, for they will have to wait five years for the people to be roasted. We're being asked today to remove the mandate from August of the current president's month and the Cabinet of Ministers -- anarchy that will end in giving power to neighbors who will sell national sovereignty. By the way, think about the President's gift. Today is March 8th, if the amendments take effect four months later, it is August 9th that Leonid Danilovich receives a gift where his mandate will be crossed out and rebaptized with the Cabinet of Ministers and we will not have a full President. [[April]] I can also talk about the shortcomings of these changes. It's a combination of a government officer's office with a deputy's mandate. The Constitution states that deputies exercise their powers on a permanent basis. On what basis, then, will our ministers exercise authority? Likewise, on a permanent basis, who will then work in this room, who will vote? Some ministers will have a parliamentary mandate and are protected from theft, while others will not have and will sit "silence of the water and below the grass". Can such an organization of authority do us good today? There are moral aspects. This is the lie that is pouring out of this room today and the media about the need for this change. We've just heard about it. Tomorrow the heavenly manna will probably be on our citizens’ heads. In fact, one thing here is to raise the constitutional basis for the continuation of the mafia's rule. There is nothing else in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u33	This is Valery Mishur's line. Valérie Mishur Replica You've been on the phone, Assadchev's been talking, so calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u34	Valery Mishura faction of the Communists. I'm referring to the patronage of the Presidential over the communists. The replica will be very short. Perhaps "Our Ukraine" is the only faction of which the largest number of vice-premiers, ministers, committee heads during Leonid Danilovich's presidency was from the faction of "Our Ukraine." So who's under the patronage should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u35	Mikola Catherinechuk, please. The faction of our Ukraine. It's a separate thought. Dear colleagues, there is no motive. When there's a vote, then you'll have a motive. Calm down! There was a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have deliberately submitted my own opinion as a member of the Temporary Special Commission, so that you can get to know the professional analysis of the changes that are being proposed. This is, I emphasize, a professional, not a political analysis to see the risks and the consequences of the changes that are being proposed. I want you to pay particular attention to the extension of the prosecutor's office. Because the new president is the Attorney General. And the entire center of influence will move there. And you know it. I want you to pay particular attention to the imperative mandate and the conclusions of the Venice Commission that deny it. It's not a movement towards democracy, it's the creation of a party oligarchy. But today my speech does not only touch you, distinguished national MPs. I want to address the people of Ukraine. Today can be both a political catastrophe and the beginning of the search for compromise. It is today that the people of Ukraine will see who is responsible and concerned about stability, which is based solely on their own interests, and for that they are willing to break through the Constitution, their own principles, and give in to the future of the country. I would like to tell our voters who for two years have been brainwashed with regard to political reform as a way to democracy. There will be no democracy. What is proposed in political reform is not reform, not a democratic perspective. It is only a dangerous game for how to leave everything as it is: the poor - the poor - the rich - the rich - the rich and the power of those who are. So not only does this reform not only contribute to democracy and the European future of the country, but it narrows down this democracy, it narrows down the ability of citizens to influence politicians and power. This reform, which was supported by the power and resources of the State, requires only a small circle of ruling people who are afraid to choose citizens in 2004. And in order to prevent that, they run away from honest, open elections, they seek to privatize not only economic resources but also the state itself through constitutional changes. That's what this is all about. That's why the authorities are playing this game with the PSO and IPU passengers, forcing the adoption of all the laws that open the way for changes to the Constitution. Reform is carried out as pressure. It goes not as a gradual change, but as a real war of power against the will of citizens, against opposition, against those who have their own position and viewpoint. Their approach is "Whoever is not with us is against us." Yet reform is not a single act, it is not a procedure to trim one branch of power for another, as reformers want to do today. Such changes to the Constitution cannot change the quality of power and the quality of politics. But the worst can happen. We will violate the fundamental system of the constitutional system, the conditions of political balance and the unity of the political nation. Ukrainian democratic forces have long struggled to have their own Constitution in Ukraine to be the law for all. In 1996, politicians and political forces were able to compromise, and now you want to break this compromise. You want to change the Constitution and finally divide Ukraine and the political powers into yours and strangers. Reformers say that political reform will improve power, make it effective, but these are just words. Has anyone prevented this authority from working better before? Did these people have too little authority to make civilized politics? Will this reform feed people? Will it increase pensions? Will it raise the minimum wage? No, it's not. She won't do it. The problem is not in the Constitution, the problem is who exercises this power, who has it in their hands. It's a matter of time. In order to change politics, there is only one thing to do -- to trust people to change their leadership, to go through presidential elections, not to listen. We are urged to follow the confusing path of constitutional change. The real political reforms are necessary, and the faction "Our Ukraine" understands that well. We have our position, our draft changes. We have a real strategy for developing a political system that meets the requirements of our constituents. We have the political will to do it. Reforms, but first to do so must have the moral right and trust of the people. I appeal to all democratic forces, to all clear and orderly politicians in Parliament. Today you will be the same choice with whom you will be accountable to your electorate, today the same day that determines your political future for many years. Today is the same time that requires maturity and wisdom. Remember, if MPs adopt laws that contradict the desire of the people, they become in the same line as those of the tyrants.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the factions from the faction. Please apply for factions. The word is from Bogdan Hubski of the MP group "The People's Authority." Get ready for Onischuku. Please make your application for factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The logic of developments in Ukraine has recently demonstrated the intention of the deputy corps to continue to work constructively and truly realistically towards the integration of Ukraine into the European and world communities. This is important for the development of our nation when all the standards of our lives are close to European, and I personally believe that the need for integration into the European Union is exactly the goal that we should seek. From this point of view, we can say that this is also an important prerequisite for the development of democracy in our state. Also the main focus and filling of socio-economic and political transformations is conservation, and what is very important is the further expansion of the economic growth achieved and the foundation for raising the standard of living of the Ukrainian people. We are deeply convinced that the basic criterion for assessing the acceptability of any transformations, especially with regard to social policy and, very important, integration policy, should be precisely, I stress this, the approximation of the European and world standards of living for the people of Ukraine. Recently, on the Supreme Council, the government reported on its activities. Practically parallel to the MPs, we've been looking at the Government's Action Programme for the next year. Obviously, and this is what we have seen with you, listening to reports from the executive structure that the government has not used all available reserves created at high rates of GDP growth and government budget revenues to solve painful social problems. But no adjustments, we see with you, substantial adjustments, social ones. Economic programmes have not been implemented. The organizational conclusions were not reached either. They listened, criticized, and practically separated. This should not be the case in the future. Because the dominant factor in determining our positions is, and we are confident of this, the needs and interests of our voters, the people who voted for us and to whom we should report. The formation of a strategy, content and orientation towards providing people with a job worthy of pay and a decent life should be the "alpha and omega" of our work here and the integration processes of Ukraine into the European Union. There's not supposed to be passiveness here, there's a kind of visual position here -- my house from the country, and I don't want to see anything or I don't know anything, or we're the only ones, or we need to break up with those who don't want to go on with us, really, to democracy, to raise the standard of living of people. If we're going to a European model, a political model, an economic, social model, then we should take European, and more simply, the world's accepted responsibility for the consequences of its activities and the work of the government, and the Supreme Council. In general, in recent times in the constituencies, in particular the deputies of our group, it is clear that their opinions, in many things, agree in the following, that the assessment of the activities of the parliamentary corps and the government, that is, the executive power that should work for people and for people, should depend solely on the shifts in the quality of life and the effectiveness of State social policy in our country, is very important, and this is the cornerstone on which we should stand. That is why we need to act decisively, consistently, and effectively today, for we will be denied halfway to a permanent place on the side of the world’s civilization. I absolutely believe that all the changes that go into the Constitution, in the laws of Ukraine that contribute to democratization, to Ukraine's approach to the world's standards of life, must be supported. And most important today is when the government meets its actions, its appointments to the Supreme Council, before the deputies elected by the people. And then we will really achieve what the people choose the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council chooses a government that reports to the Supreme Council and reports directly to the electorate, that is, to the people of Ukraine. And so from this point of view, I am absolutely confident that the changes that are being considered today, which will lead to the real responsibility of the executive structures to the people who voted for us, are necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u39	The word from the Trudov Ukraine faction is by Mikola Onischuk, Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk, and John Kuras will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u40	I think a lot of them, because today is an unforgivable and perhaps decisive day for the work of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, the evolution of the attitude of the political power community, as a whole, to the changes to the Constitution, has gone from completely denying any change to the fairly real and fundamental proposals that will be voted on today, obviously. At least that's how they're proposed by the Constitutional Commission as amendments to the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution. And obviously, to explain or consider the relevance of these changes, we need to look at Ukraine in 1996 and Ukraine today, model 2004. In 1996, 20 percent of the country’s property was privately owned and 80 percent owned by the state. Today, the figures are the opposite: 80 percent is private property, 20 percent is state property. The sphere of social relations and civil society. The parties were practically gone, there were only parties that were created on the ridge of the national liberation, let's say, ideas -- Movement and the Communist Party, socialists. Other subjects of the political process of civil society were only in the process of conception. Today, this is a very different situation. It's already in the political field. Ukraine has many public institutions, political organizations that can participate and are ready to take responsibility for the rule of the country. People, I think you understand that in 1996 and today they are different citizens, with different political cultures and with different visions of who we are and who we can be. Even the 2002 elections to Parliament showed that the Ukrainian electorate, the Ukrainian citizen, is more of a politically educated person than just one who can't figure out the origins of political events. Other comparisons can also be mentioned. They all talk about what they say in favor of the fact that society today's constitutional model, the constitutional vision at all, which was in 1996, is no longer clearly the answer. And of course, in this case, the comparison of what countries have constitutions that haven't changed for decades or maybe hundreds of years would probably not be entirely correct given that there is a social, political and civil institution. In fact, we, Ukraine, are all the time, at least until this time, in the transition phase, looking for ourselves as a country that wants to be in the European community. Is the Bill Ideal? I don't think so. And today many of those who have already spoken and those who will speak will rightly point to some discussion, at least I will put it so softly, either way. This refers to an imperative mandate. I am absolutely convinced that if the political relationship in Parliament is different, we will transfer all the standards that apply to it to the Rules and apply a slightly milder penalty to those who do not adhere to a party culture. In particular, the instruments here are known to be related to the fact that, for example, a deputy who comes out of the faction of the political party cannot then join another faction. And it remains essentially beyond the political process. But it's obvious that today, when we stand at the beginning of this political process, at the very beginning of when political parties say: we are ready to take responsibility for our governance, for Ukraine's fate. And if so, the measure of responsibility of those on the political party list should be somewhat higher. The issue of prosecutorial supervision is also a matter for discussion. I am absolutely convinced that in due course we will narrow down the scope of prosecutorial supervision, perhaps this should have been done and now, to control only the actions of the state apparatus and the authorities of local self-government, i.e. control over the actions of the public official when he opposes the citizen. And last but not least, your honor, your model. Obviously, today Parliament is voting for what model of state form of government we are choosing -- with the Eastern European tradition, what is called -- the European-Asian tradition, or the Western European tradition, where parliaments are not just the centre of legislation, but they are the hubs of state institutions. That's what we're proposing when it comes to Parliament forming a government. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u41	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich, for you. Ivan Fedorovich Kuras from the faction of Ukraine, to prepare Michael Gladys from the agrarian faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u42	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, great colleagues! The question that is being debated so fiercely in this room for a long time, more than a year and a half, without exaggeration, is in the very epicenter of social and political life and, without exaggeration, the social and political struggle of inter-party relations and so forth. And, no doubt, during this time, all possible and impossible, all pro and all counters, all arguments in favor and against the changes proposed to the Constitution have already been made. This is what convinces us of this problem among the politicians, among the scientists, and here we have in Parliament, in international organizations, I don't know where else we can test all these issues and what new we can expect from the point of view of argument. As they say, everything is known. I just wanted to get your attention for two moments. In a historically short period of time, since August 24, 1991, our nation has tried various forms of the political system of our nation. Remember, by December 1, that year, we had a pure parliamentary republic. And then after the presidential election, we had a parliamentary presidential election, and then from 1994 to 1996, we had this kind of, I'd say, kind of a transitional difficult period. Then the President-Parliamentary. We had every reason to weigh all the advantages again. Today, we come to the conclusion that there is a need for changes in the Constitution. And one more thing. This time has not passed in vain. In the struggle, our lives were reformed. And most of the time, to be objective absolutely, it touched and it touched the economic sphere, the social sphere, the international relations, the military, the foreign political doctrine of our state. We passed laws, we accepted doctrines, we accepted concepts and so forth. And the only sphere that has not undergone these changes in this time has proved to be political. There's been an imbalance and it's pretty serious, and it's pretty deep in our social life. And then, if we don't make these changes and bring them all together, we risk continuing to deepen these social contradictions and contradictions. We're about to make a choice. And our faction of "Ukraine," where you know, there are a lot of majors who are affected by these problems. But in the sharp discussions in the faction itself, we have come to the conclusion that we need to support these changes, because we are aware that this is the path to real democratisation of social life, to real political pluralism, to real multipartyism. This is the way to a social treaty, this is the way to political stability in the state, to harmonize the interests of different social groups, political entities. This is the way, finally, to harmonising the interests of the center and the regions. On the last one, I wanted to emphasize in particular by speaking out from the faction of "Regions." There may be different readings of this term. But I think that's the way to harmonize this sphere. And this is the way, finally, to European and world legal and, most importantly, parliamentary standards. And the last. It is unlikely that anyone in this room will take the courage to claim that everything in the Constitution is valid, that everything is perfect there, as it were. I'm the only one who wants to say that there are flaws in these proposals as well. They were talked about by colleagues both from opposition and our colleagues. But we need to make a clear assessment of the situation and, if you want, the special role of the moment and your responsibility. Because it is not often that one branch of power, in this case the Presidential branch, is deliberately limited to its own powers, to its limitations for better present and future. I call for the support of the proposed project on behalf of our faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u43	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. The Agrarian Party faction has its leader, Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys. Prepare Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u44	Your Honor, your colleagues, your respectable friends. I'm sure there's no national MP in this room who would claim that our political system is so perfect that it doesn't need any change, clarifications, additions and so on. Even in countries of so - called old democracy, the Basic Law is amended from time to time, making adjustments to the Constitution. Therefore, for our young nation, which only gives the first exams the right to be called a democratic, legal, and market-oriented country, the adjustment of certain constitutional rules is entirely justified, both politically and on a time scale, because 8 years of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine is a sufficient time for the basic subjects of state-building to prove themselves in practice, or as we say, all branches of government. Because each of them acted within the framework laid down in the Constitution. If we all talk today without exception about the necessary political adjustments, first of all the change in the system of power, which means the improvement of each of them branches, and Parliament, that is to say we are with you, is one of them, we all felt that there was no harm in both of these branches and between them, and so there is no joint effective work, especially in the end at all. I mean, the President-Parliament-Government triangle. Hence, it was necessary to establish such a political system of amendments to the Constitution, so that, at the same time as the distribution of power between the highest leaders of state structures, their responsibility was clearly laid down. That is what our faction saw and saw as the main objective of political reform. About this a year ago, i.e. April 9th, we spoke from this rostrum at parliamentary hearings and our position on the main issues has not changed our faction. You can pick up the transcript and follow up on the points of what we supported and what we objected to. I mean, we're consistent in our actions. In particular, our faction has made a clear statement about the President's national election, about the election system to the Supreme Council only on a proportional basis, about the need to strengthen the political responsibility of the government and parliament, about the transfer of some of the powers of the President to the Supreme Council and the government. By the way. As far as the government is concerned, a year ago we were paying attention to the immediate adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers law. So all the positions that we said about a year ago are also crucial in the law. which we are discussing today, that is, all the proposals of our faction are taken into account. This is the first time. Secondly, we have examined in detail the powers that the President and the Prime Minister will be given in accordance with the proposed changes to the Constitution, as well as the functions assigned by the new law to the Supreme Council and the Government. And we feel that neither political nor moral nor more constitutional rights nor obligations of any subject of authority have been violated. Something is taken away from the President and added to the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, or the government. In our opinion, the law also clearly defines the mechanisms of balance and the opposites of branches of power, removing all kinds of contradictions that existed. I don't go into the details, because there's no time, they're known to everyone and, frankly, they don't have a screwdriver. Today all that is needed is the political will of Parliament, a clear position of the Supreme Council, and more precisely of every faction and of every national MP. In terms of our faction, we have no reason to deny, in fact, ourselves, those requirements of political reform that were declared a year ago and that were implemented in the law. So I propose to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u45	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. The Social Democratic Party faction has the leader of the Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk faction. [[united]] Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! I'll try to answer at least two questions. First. Should Political Reform Be Needed? And second. When is it needed, if necessary? I want to turn to our own experience. I'm not going to do a long-distance tour of history, starting in the '90s. Since the 1990s, Ukraine has been reforming every year. I emphasize, every year. In doing so, the essence of the reform was usually to extend powers between the President and the Supreme Council. And the government stayed in the area. Since the 1990s, we have made many changes to the Constitution. In 1992, the institution of a representative of the Presidency was introduced, and in 1993 the Law on the Election of Local Authorities was passed. In 1994, the system was cancelled, and in 1995 the Constitutional Treaty was adopted, according to which the government exercised the mandate of the coordinator, at least there was written down, the Prime Minister being the coordinator of the government. In 1996, they adopted the Constitution under which the President became Head of State, and the government could not even appoint a minister or deputy minister, starting in 2000 with discussions on political reform. Now we have a unique time when most of the Supreme Council and society and the President have come to the conclusion that such power is neither effective nor responsible. We need to create such an authority, a system of power that is in the interests of society, not in the interests of individuals or individual groups. This will be the first to start when in Ukraine power is formed or changes made to the Constitution, which the authorities will form through elections transparently and, the government becomes a responsible chain of power, I repeat, the government becomes a responsible chain of power. In the past, who will be the first to resign the government? Is it the President? Or the Supreme Council? In that case, when reform takes place, the government resigns with the Supreme Council. It assumes the full responsibility of the coalition for exercising executive power. For the first time in history, we are approaching the normal process of power-building. Now it's about when to do it. I emphasize, if we don't do this right now, if the President is elected to a valid constitution and when he puts his program on the table, and this program is going to be approved by the people, I don't know in Ukraine of a person who would give up those powers. That would have to be a dot, or today, or at least 10 years later. I want to address you as a person who has been reformed since 1965. Every time, this reform began and ended with nothing. For the first time, we can take the path of real political reform, make changes to the Constitution and start a democratic process of shaping the system of power. This thought has long existed in this room. It was published by Alexander Frost in 2000. In 2000, I wrote the book "Government," where I clearly and clearly formed a position: the power must be formed in elections, the authority must act under the control of the people. Now we have a real chance. All the suggestions that are made make sense, but that's the point, that's why there's some people's interests. I propose not to be guided by the interests of individuals but by the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u47	Basil Nadrag of the National Choice MP group. One minute, a line, John Plush, please. I'm sorry, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I took the floor to say to Leonid Makarovich that I had also experienced reforms since 1965 specifically. But I have a question: that's why Leonid Makarovich sees that all the reforms that have been made since 1965 until now are ineffective and have failed. And this reform will be exactly what it needs to be done. Isn't that because this reform is being carried out by a party that has received 4.5 percent of the vote. After all, the CAPRS has had much broader support, and none of its reforms have succeeded. And SDPU has 5 percent, and this is going to be a reform that will satisfy not only Ukraine, but the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u49	Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag of the National Choice MP group. Prepare Valery Desert.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u50	Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk, People's Choice. I think today we are witnessing another political action. As any policy and today's action, and today's event can be divided into two components: tactics and strategy. In terms of tactics, we should speak of tactics from the point of view that in just the last two years, which the Supreme Council is in place today, we have an example with you and, if we wish, we can find this in television, radio, rallying and all other events, public statements by all, without exception, of the political forces represented in Parliament, that we need constitutional reform. There is a need to change the system of power and everything that is on the agenda today. This raises a second question. To whom does it benefit, to whom does it not benefit? I'm in. Today, like two years ago, talking about constitutional reform still raises the question of how much interest is respected, how much is there in the interest of a political force? And I think that it is fair and just that we must tell our constituents: some propose this constitutional reform because it is consistent with their interests and sentiments and desires, others do not offer it because it is not in accordance with their interests and wishes or their expected interests and desires. That is why what is being carried behind each other here today is deeply convinced that there is a political struggle because some authorities want to fight for this power, and others do not differ in a large way, respectively, because the bad one is a politician who does not want to be in power and to come to that power. In terms of strategy, strategy is slightly different. The strategy is as follows: to the extent that a State is able to transform itself in order to meet the interests of its people. And speaking of the need for a transformation of power, the discussion that before the parliamentary-presidential administration to the parliamentary-presidential system, we will be able to give the executive first opportunity, the Cabinet of Ministers to become the responsible authority, what we have spoken to you today, because even today's formal Prime Minister, independent of personnel, does not even have the formal right to appoint a minister. It has nothing to do with the appearance of these people. From this point on, from what we want the executive power to be responsible, to be formed on the basis of a consolidated decision of the representative authority, to which the Supreme Council is the Supreme Council, and, accordingly, to be able to respond, we must not only create this power, but we must create the authority that will be responsible for what it does. In this case, it must also have authority, because it is still the desire to find those responsible who do not have authority to respond, and if we want to create real mechanisms for the executive to be responsible, it must have authority accordingly. And the final thesis, I'm done. Deeply convinced that if today, in this session, we do not approve the change in the Constitution, then, at best for eight years, this will continue. And since we have had a permanent social disaster for two years, a constant drive for politicians' money, which is ultimately in the interest of or vice versa in non-compliance with the interests of the population, we will, in fact, leave this mark for eight more years. We will fight, or other policies will fight between us, but the lack of a system of authority capable of carrying out its duties responsibly will lead to the fact that in that State, unfortunately, the interests of the population will go awry, but not on the first agenda. Therefore, on behalf of the People's Choice, we propose today to consider this issue, with a clear understanding of responsibility. If we do not do so, from 8 to 10 years we have yet to live in a State in which all will look for one answer: one question. So it must be done that the authorities take responsibility for their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u51	Yes, Valery Pavlovich Pavlovytenko from the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, prepare for the faction of Democratic Initiatives. Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Today, in our society and in the Supreme Council, there is a difference between political reform and constitutional change. And unfortunately, this process of drafting changes to the Constitution came not later than the path proposed by the People's Democratic Party and there was tension. Our main task after a decision has been made, and I hope that it will be adopted, is to make the Constitution truly a Constitution for all of our Ukrainian people. I want to go back to the words that I said before and to repeat and show you two questions, because we are accused of carrying out political reform under some pressure, and I am showing all the people's deputies, and I think in our society that I, on June 2, 2002, at a meeting of the People's Democratic Party, have decided to carry out a political reform on changing the system of power that is now working for all 12 years in effect in our state and that it does not have full responsibility to the Ukrainian people. So first of all, I want to say that, really, reform should be, and I want to say that if we vote today, and I hope for that, I want to say that the job will just start. So we need to create again a coherent council, a special commission of the Supreme Council, which will work on a series of legislative acts that will create normal work for the work of the entire system of power in our state, so that it will be transparent, democratic and move forward, including forward. Now for the next one, dear friends. This stage, I think it will pass. I want to show you another, another edition, called "The Platform for People's Democracy." As a political party, we approved a new programme of national democracy at the convention. I'm presenting it today so that we don't think we should move forward again, that there is already a document of the development of national democracy in our country. I'll tell you a little bit about the future within the time I've been taken away. This will be the political slogan of the People's Democratic Party. It determines that man must become the master of his own land and in his own country, which we have not yet carried out; the family is a happy childhood, perspective, youth, rich maturity and secure old age, well-being provided by our own forces, and Ukraine in the family of European peoples. What are the political priorities for national democracy? 2004-2006: the adoption of political and economic democracy, the beginning of a new modernization of Ukraine's development strategy. And we voted with you in favour of the Elections Act, both in Parliament on political party lists and in local councils. And I'm happy. There will be a very strong competition between political parties. And we would very much like the future parliament, the local councils, to be politically formed. And it doesn't matter who comes to power now, but the main thing is that political society, our society should become politically developed and, above all, accountable to our people, to our people. What are the next steps? 2006-2008: participation in the formation of a single democratic space in a large Europe, the beginning of Ukraine's accession to the structures of the European Union, the formation of permanent relations with Russia and the SND countries based on the free trade zone. 2008-2011: full participation in European integration processes, synchronization of internal and external transformations. So I've briefly outlined the events that need to be done. And I want to address the National MPs. Let us unite in the realms of the adoption of the Constitution and make every effort to consolidate our society and to direct further our efforts to consolidate the legislative work in our parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Since the faction "Democratic Initiatives" is a performer? None. Then from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please. Who will act? Tymoshenko? Yes, please. Get ready from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u54	Dear friends! Today, there is certainly a day of accession in Ukraine, and it is not about the change in the Constitution, or just about the changes to the Constitution. This is about whether Ukraine will remain the way we all see it today: the people on the other hand, the politicians on the other hand -- or whether we have a chance to do something better in October 2004. And it's constitutional reform that solves this issue today. What is this constitutional reform anyway? Clearly, this is a banal choice of authority among the people and the handing over of this authority to the people’s deputies. If, today, we have two powers with this Constitution: choosing national deputies is the first, and creating laws through MPs, then the second authority is to elect the President of Ukraine, who de jure is the guarantor of the Constitution, and de facto is the director of the executive branch of power. Today, if these changes go through, we deprive the people of one right -- to elect a full-fledged president and leave a completely empty decorative person who will go on diplomatic visits and give orders. And then you don't have to give people the right to choose this president at all, because that's not fair, they're going to believe in choosing, and they're going to get empty in their hands. So if someone says that they give people their right, that is certainly not true. I'd like you and I to understand from a programmatic point of view what will happen in Parliament? Imagine our Parliament is completely unstructured. Up to 30 parties are now working in our parliament. And if a new coalition is formed every day, if we have Parliament elected instead of the people of the real leader of Ukraine, we will make a new coalition every day and from below the fields pull out the new prime minister. And the Prime Minister will have his problem, he won't serve the people, and he'll think every day about how to satisfy the 226 deputies who hold him in this position, and he'll hand out bribes every day. Moreover, the Prime Minister's cabinet minister will not be subordinated to the Prime Minister, because the centre of their influence will be in the parties that gave them this position. And that's why this government is going to be completely ineffective. And when someone says that a change of power is needed, I apologize, sometimes surgery is needed, but it can both give life and end the life of this person. And then there's surgery like castration. It is impossible to say that all of these surgical operations are, of course, positive. So changing the power system is a very thin thing, and we have to get to it very and very balanced. In addition, I understand the left parties, they want to return to the tradition of politics when the people choose not to choose the leader of the country, but rather to choose the politician in their own composition. But today is not the kind of Politburo that was during the Soviet Union, and today there is going to be a completely different political office in Parliament, where there will be three baptized clan parent leaders, and really left leaders can sit in this political office to elect the leader of the country? There are other schedules in the country and in Parliament. And that's why we need to think today about what, in addition to the developments that I said, we already have a different concept, that is, the President-in-Office after the reform plans to become Prime Minister of Ukraine through the elections in parliament. Medvedchuk plans to become a speaker in this parliament after the reform, and Viktor Yanukovich is prepared for an absolute void, the president of the country, who will have less authority than the governor of the Donetsk region. Dear friends! We must be sound in mind to do so. And that's why I want to go to those people right now who are majors who can solve the issue of today's reform -- the voice there, the voice here, the question of reform will be resolved. And so one person’s courage at times depended on the fate of the whole country. And I want to remind you that today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues! From the faction of "Our Ukraine" Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko. Prepare for the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! First of all, my sympathy today is for the Ukrainian Constitution, which in the last five months the President has been trying to overthrow and is calling it into the session room today as a nocturnal girl for this. What I'd like to say is essentially. Dear friends. Of course, today's session room is not a political reform. We all understand that very well. This is about a coup d'état. And here, the vast majority of people understand this terminology. The main thing to understand is that the initiators of this coup in this country are so far three men are Kuchma, Medvedczuk and Simonenko. The motive and purpose of these authors, respected friends, is one way to prevent the democratization of political life from saving the present power. That's the only goal. How can a government that no one respects, that no one appreciates, that has 6 percent of people's trust, be preserved by the authorities? Only one way, dear friends, is to complete the revision of the Constitution. But it takes partners to get 300 votes. That is why we are now witnessing the so - called Constitutional Reform and the partners. Two years ago, an offer was made, realizing that the power of fair elections would never win, and an offer was made, how did the elections of the President and the Supreme Council fit together? With one goal: to add two years of power to the President without an election. This goes through, thanks to all of you, to the left and to the right. It's been nine months, and there's a new initiative to reverse direct presidential elections. Again, thanks to the House, thanks to the efforts of the democratic forces, this has not happened. Today we are witnessing the third farce. Listen, first of all, let's transfer the President's authority to the Cabinet of Ministers. Friends, don't you understand that this is about how to move the regime from one address to another, to another, where 238 oppressed people are controlled today, perhaps wise and honest, but now depressed. And so, dear friends, we are testifying to you today, Leonid Makarovich, the great Ukrainian Democrats, to separate the flies from the chops, to separate the elections from constitutional reform. Then you will have an honest view of the rhetoric that you are here today to confess from this rostrum. The other one. Changes to the Constitution, honorable friends, must take place only in a legitimate way. When we witnessed the first vote on December 24 in this room, I want to say on behalf of the faction of Ukraine: for us it's not a fact, for us it's not a legal fact that was adopted on December 24. I am addressing you, Stephen Bogdanovich, a great Ukrainian lawyer! Five months after the vote, where are the 276 people’s deputies’ voting records today? Why aren't they at the Supreme Council Secretariat today? On February 3, there was another vote, where blacks in the White Constitutional Court said that no amendments to the Constitution could be introduced, considered and adopted at the next session. Legalists, where's your word today? Why is it that for five minutes on the day of the organization of the next session, an emergency session is arranged for five minutes to manipulate the law? Guys, I want to invite you to one. The Constitution and reform must be done with honest hands. [[B in m in s a l in]] Doing it publicly, doing it honestly. It's not like I'm being aloof in this power. And the last. Please, I've been paying attention to your line. I'd like to say. Participation in a coup attempt is a political crime. His fellow countrymen fully share responsibility. Once again, the organizers of this crime are Kuchma, Medvedchuk, Simonenko. I'm hoping, Alexander Alexanderovich, for you, I hope you have enough virtue not to stand up to this line. Please, do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u57	The word comes from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz. Replica, Gmira, please. The bush, the microphone, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u58	Here Mr. Yushchenko has just spoken of the need for reforms with honest hands. I don't think he meant his own hands that signed a disgraceful document that declared the whole opposition fascists along with Bitch and the representative of the faction "Our Ukraine" Plush. I don't think he meant his hands that he used very actively when he was Prime Minister and held a shameful referendum, which, according to the faction of our Ukraine, was also the most gross forgery. It was Victor Andreevich Yushchenko who was responsible as Prime Minister for ensuring freedoms in our country. And with clean hands, reform has been sought since the year 96 by communists. And we'll run them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u59	Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, director of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u60	Deputies! I'm asking you to calm down! Victor Andryovich, you forgot your pen here, so take it. Next. I want to take another chance to explain the point of my proposals. Before that, a few pens. We have heard in the discussion that many of the speakers or some of the speakers fear that as a result of changes, the authorities will be in the hands of the oligarchs. And I have a question for them: Whose hands is it in today? There's an oligarch in here. So we're against having another Kuchma under any last name. [[Applause]] Next. I am also addressing some of the speakers who today are trying and reaching out for what we are reaching out for today. What did we tell people at thousands of rallies a year ago? Why do you now give up what you said together? Now it's essentially a question. There are a few more arguments in favour of that bill that I proposed to you. There is a very important replication or a provision of the Constitutional Court, he speaks of the final clauses, and there is still some disagreement between the provisions of Chapter 16 concerning the time of obtaining powers by the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine under the Act amending the Constitution. And you all see these risks that apply to both the Party of Regions and most, and our Ukraine, and other deputies. They are linked to the four-month implementation of the Constitution. My project is due only after the President's election. And that can be done, and again, I repeat, in these positions, and once again I confirm that they were, by the way, signed jointly with us with our Ukraine and Julia Timoshenko in January in the 4180 project. They were to be carried out at that time. If we didn't then, let's do it now and correct this flaw. Let's move on. The Constitutional Court will then have no reason to doubt and there will be no reason to question the legitimacy of the decisions taken. Next. You see the inadequacies in the project that have arisen because of not discussing it before prior approval. For example, the 5 year and 4 year term for the formation of representative bodies in the central legislative body and in places. The gaps in law, in the relations between the President, the Parliament and the government that are foreseen in this project, which raises concerns in the Constitutional Court. You can fix all of this. It's suggested in my project. So once again, I strongly ask what is involved in the relationship between the President and the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, I repeat, all of them to one point, which was insisted upon by the leadership of our Ukraine, here are taken into account. Confirm by voting your consent to support such proposals and, I think, we can find consensus in this room. Once again, I urge you to gather the Conciliation Council at 2 p.m. At 2.30 p.m., the Conciliation Board will hold factions and determine whether to vote. And vote only if there is a guarantee that the document will be pure, that it will be followed by all constitutional norms, that it will be legitimate, that it will be convincing to society, and then all these arguments that are dictated by political emotions today will be removed because society will be convinced that the document accepted comes out of society's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u61	I see: Timishenko calls for a replica, since its name was mentioned. Please give the floor to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Please be prepared. Now let's hear it, Peter Mikolaiovich, more. Microphone, please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u62	Dear Alexander Alexander, you have addressed me. I'm talking to you. You have always been a moral politician and a pattern in society. Today, it is up to you to preserve the authority of Kuchmi and Medvedchuk or not. And so don't call me, and we're calling you not to vote for this constitutional rebellion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u63	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, director of the Communist faction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I'd like to start with another one. But the last information that came to me from the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the region of Dolin, the village of Shevchenkova, where in the year 60, the liberation of Ukraine was lifted by a barbaric obelisk built in honor of the dead villagers in the years of the Great Nativity War. And who did? A council that is completely under the control of "Our Ukraine" today. So I want to ask, what kind of Ukraine wants our Ukraine, which destroys the monuments by the heroes of the Great Homeland War?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u65	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. The political forces represented today in the Supreme Council have already decided on the vote on support or non-support for changes to the Constitution. We Communists openly and sincerely claim that we want to change for the better for the people of Ukraine. Opponents today are not hindering us, not the Supreme Council -- they are hindering the people of Ukraine. The state’s one - sided government in the face of systemic, artificial chaos is causing tremendous damage to Ukraine, the people of Ukraine, and every family. The long - term struggle that was before today’s meeting is largely characterized by the process of adopting changes to the Constitution is practically over. And in many ways the future of Ukraine depends on how this fight ends. Whether we will really find courage and make changes to the Constitution, or whether Ukraine will continue again and again in the chaos of criminal dictatorship, which has mastered all the vertical power. The story of the question. I am addressing you once again, honourable voters, because it is we Communists in 1999 after the election of the President, when all of Ukraine was openly told that an official state system of forging elections had been established in Ukraine, that society was invited to consider our proposals for changes to the Constitution and, above all, to restrict the authority of the President and the oligarchs surrounding him. This is what is most important in our future today. The reasons why different political forces have joined our idea -- the different ones, I won't touch them, but I hope that today most in the Supreme Council will be governed by most of the results of 12 years of independence -- are, first of all, recognition of the threat to Ukraine of power corruption and the crime of power. This is primarily the lack of confidence of our people in the whole system of power and in the individual components of it, both in the executive branch of power and in the legislative branch, and in particular in the judiciary, which serves the criminality and the oligarches, protecting their interests. We must take into account today that Europe and abroad recognize Ukraine as the most corrupt state and thus translate all responsibility for the future, primarily to the people of Ukraine, not to those responsible. What real threats have Ukraine faced? This is, first of all, the threat that the criminal capital, by taking power, will finally establish the dictatorship of this criminal capital. And here our opponents are preventing us, the communists and those who support us, from solving the problem, from allowing criminal capital to finally establish the dictatorship of this capital. Next. You and I are witnessing that today the economic base of our state's independence and sovereignty has been destroyed, and it is thanks to the efforts of the 12 years of our opponents of our Ukraine. Again, I want to talk about clean hands. So this is where I want to ask. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see why the 500 million dollars that have been counted and, to whom we know, abroad have not yet returned. Where did they go? Who counted do we know? National Bank of Ukraine. Let's find out who destroyed the Bank of Ukraine and for what purpose it destroyed. And we know who destroyed it and who stood before it. That's why we want to prevent the threat of genocide, epidemics, and the export of intelligence today. What do we want to do? First. It is today to limit the president’s authority and to exclude other oligarchs from coming in instead of one of the oligarchs. We are outraged today by the fact that the United States, and they are sitting on the balcony today, political governance, and controlling how our Ukraine is doing today, carrying out political reform. This is how they really threaten us, threatening that the people of Ukraine cannot change the Constitution. We're also proposing to our opponents today that they finally understand, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u67	Thank you. Assadchev, a replica. Please calm down. F faction statement complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u68	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like Mr. Simonenko to provide official evidence that it was our Ukraine that destroyed the monument in Ivano-Frankivsk. If there is no such evidence, we will view it as slander and provocation. And which our Ukraine wants to see, you know, without the Couch and without the Companion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! Simonov. And I ask you not to mention your last name, not to mention each other, and not to mention the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! I want to answer "Our Ukraine" and remind them. More recently, it's a street. in the city of Ternopolis, renamed the street of the Galicina Division Soldiers. There is no street dedicated to the military anymore. There is no Konev, no Vatutina, and the monuments fell in 1999. That's what I'm telling you, the native ternopolitan. Shame on "Our Ukraine"
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Well, if you'll excuse me! Well, calm down, please! Well, they've already exchanged lines. You can't say a line on a line. Calm down, please. Let's go to. Huh? Let's move on to the discussion. Calm down, please. Bondarenko minute, that's it. There'll be no more replicas. Calm down, please. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u72	Dear friends! Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". I think that some speakers today are extremely eager to use unauthorized methods, giving examples that are obviously invented or taken from the ceiling. So let them answer for those words. I would like to remind you of clear historical facts. After signing the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, the political power they represent here today went to unify the systems -- you created concentration camps with them, you evicted entire nations, you destroyed political opponents, so take responsibility, don't stick your fingers in the past, you lost it under the tanks on. At the heights and at the Cherkas, at Corsun, millions of people, Ukrainians, 22 million people are on the conscience of those who have fought so much, so organized, this struggle against fascism that has lost half the population of the country. I want to say that this was your joint activity in Europe. Afghanistan is also on your conscience, so wash up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u73	Let's move on to the national MPs. Please state on board the names of the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, has the word to prepare Yuri Karmazin. A total of 76 national deputies were enrolled, 76 national deputies enrolled.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The idea of improving the efficiency of the state and real reconstruction of life for the benefit of man and society was expressed by the Communists back in 1996. And all these years, they have fought hard and consistently for it. Let no one be a secret that if we fail to reform the political system now, in the next 10 years it will be virtually impossible to do so, which will lead to a total crisis and even a catastrophe of the state. I am deeply aware of what can be done to improve the lives of the people of Ukraine in specific circumstances. And with all responsibility, I firmly declare that we Communists are going to do everything possible and impossible in any political weather, where the only criterion for assessing our activities is the fundamental interests of the common people. Because when corrupt authorities sell everything without exception from parliamentary mandates to ministerial portfolios, it's the only way through fair and transparent elections to choose the right and responsible representative power of the people. Political reform does not provide for U.S. patrons who are desperate and devious about power and property. It was with the aim of breaking political reform that a historic clown show was organized, blocking legislative work in parliament's walls in order to break political reform. This aggressive, destructive position, the tactic of firm and firm opposition to the so-called national-democratic opposition is caused by the fact that, first, the United States and its satellites at a time of globalization of fierce competition need a president who has unlimited authority and would be their obedient puppeteer and would provide strategic NATO interests. It's different. The Oligarchs of Our Ukraine and their business and political partners need a President of Ukraine who, with his unlimited authority, could be fully manipulated in his beneficial anti-national interests. As we can see, all their talk about democracy and the rule of law is nothing more than a smoke screen, an effort for high-level, but empty words to hide their evil goals from the people of Ukraine and the world society. Just for what? And because the changes in the power system in Ukraine are not part of the U.S. plans that want to put Yashchenk in the presidential chair and preserve the power of capital. The people of Ukraine, I believe, will have enough wisdom to figure out what is worth, and the Yushchenka, together with the National Government, will have to be held accountable for all that they have done with Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, since 12 o'clock, let's take a 30-hour break. And after the break, George Carmazin will be the first to speak. Sorry, I'm here. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours 30 minutes. The first will take place after the break of Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. I invite the national deputies to the session room. The word is given by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. And then Gabrieluk will perform on behalf of the 12 non-fractionals, so we'll make that exception. I can't hear you. Philenko, out of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Unfortunately, during such a hot discussion, which is in the Supreme Council, a disabled mobile connection, closed sites of our Ukraine, the Reforms and Order Party. Would we like to get official information about what's going on? Maybe the insurrection is being prepared while we're working on the Constitution here? Maybe the commands are appropriate. Would we like the Security Service to have an official explanation of what is happening in the state on this day and at this point?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u78	I'm assigning, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to the Chief of Staff right now to investigate all the issues that you've violated and to provide written information to inform the National Deputies. The word has been given to Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", to prepare Vasil Gabrieluk on behalf of 12 non-fractionals. The corresponding signature application is for this purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u79	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the noble Ukrainian people! What's going on in the hall today? There is an attempt to rape the Constitution! The attempt began with an eight - year - old group of 37 guards in civilian clothing, two of whom entered without a license. It is in this area that we also need to consider the fact that websites are now being shut down and the mobile phone is being stopped. Who is in the way of a valid Constitution?Oh, my God! The same is true of those who did not. It is you, Mr. Kuchma, Medvedchuk, Simonenko, you do not want to listen to the people, otherwise the reform would be from below, you would be removed from the inefficient chains of reservatories, over-reservations, and you would be stripped of unnecessary duplication with the Paradises, with the paradisaics. That's what they're waiting for today. Instead, you began to maintain your authority. It was only today that the MPs were given the project, only today, I emphasize, in the morning. The project was not distributed, and society knows nothing about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the ruling of Judge Savenka has stated that the bill amending the Constitution has concluded that the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution are not identical to the text of a bill previously approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is thus illegal. That's what we're looking at today. Now, from the point of view of what you're suggesting. You foresee a new basis for the suspension of the authority of the National Deputy. This is article 81. This means that the national MP will be deprived of authority by expelling him from the faction. Such a rule transforms a national MP into an instrument in the hands of the party’s leadership, and to whom will he serve as a deputy? The Leader or the Ukrainian People? After all, the mandate of the deputy is suspended on the basis of the decision of the higher governing body of the political party. Honorable National Deputies and Honorable Citizens of Ukraine This law narrows down article 85, paragraph 26, to the formation of the Constitutional Court on behalf of the President and the majority of Parliament. The concentration of powers to form the Constitutional Court in the hands of two authorities will create an obstacle to the exercise of Ukrainian rights by the Ukrainian people. I call on all national deputies to stand up today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u80	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please prepare the School for the non-fractional national deputy Gabrieluk. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, today there is a spirit of prejudice in our Parliamentary Hall. Look, whoever's talking is not going to hear anything. After all, it has already been stated that 340 votes in pocket. In addition, it is impossible to say, but it is not possible to add. This reminds me of the nightmare of anyone saying at a trial: the accused, his lawyer, or the judge, in fact, the sentence is prejudiced when the requirements are met only by the prosecutor. And as we know, the D.A. insists on a full-blown couch. Everything has been done to turn the legislative process into an empty speech room, and the people's deputies into chorus of renegade statisticians. This is a formal mockery of democracy, of parliamentaryism in our country. Leonid Makarovich said that if you treat him with tolerance, he will listen, and so, please, everyone. So, Leonid Makarović, I am addressing you and other fellow national MPs, and I am very tolerant. And I hope to be heard. Mainly, I, like many people's deputies in this room, am in favour of political reform. But the question is, what is the price, and to what extent? And whether this bill is in line today, whether it meets today's requirements and whether it can be voted for today. I'm sure it's premature, and that's why. First, the political price paid for the bill is too high for our country. See: the electoral system has only begun to be formed, the structure of our State has just begun - and in fact, the majority's consent to the requirements of the left-hand party has adopted a proportional electoral system throughout the power line. I find that unacceptable. Second. It's such a wild-goose chase. Let us see: the deputies today are not only able to improve, amend, finalize the bill, and they cannot understand what we are voting for. And most importantly, do we not remember with you the experience of hasty decisions of the past years? In the early 1990s, I served in the Soviet Army as a rocket launcher, and I remember being assured by our commanding fathers that it was necessary to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Preformed before the fact that our country's defences were actually destroyed during those periods. And those enterprises that produced high-efficiency space equipment and others were transferred to the manufacture of trolleybus, pans and so on. We are. All of us understand that when we talk about the harm of drinking, we remember very well when vineyards were cut down, wine was destroyed, and I remember very well the times when, thanks to such efforts, there was a push of narcotics, drug addiction, which the country is struggling with today and cannot overcome this evil. And there were people back then who proved, defended, tried to disobey those stupid orders, and they fought. But at the same time, there have been people who, in agreement with their heads of foreheads, have broken down everything that's possible and impossible, put on grapevines, and I want to tell you that today we're great with you, we understand where these initiators are, where these activists, like descendants today, are. We know with you that they are despised by their descendants. Some of those present in the room wish to be like them and remain like them in history. The idea of any reform, respected by colleagues, should be to enhance effective, constructive work, full and probably the most responsible. The establishment of a responsible system of power in Ukraine. But the adoption of Bill 4105 will not only push us away from this idea, but I also want to say that there is likely to be serious damage and damage. And there are many examples of why this will be done. I want to say it in the end. Leonid Makarović, you said yesterday in your interview with "Ukrainian Truth" that today there is no pressure on the people's deputies, that is to say, Leonid Makarović, it was only worth Gavriluk to state his position, to propose an alternative to the electoral system, just as the team had just given to discredit the most complete one. Today, press is being carried out in all directions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u82	Please, School, get ready for Bespalloma. Boris Jakovitch is next. School, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u83	Thank you. Before I say the word, I'd like to say a few shades. I want to turn to the left factions: "Don't be pullers of pants sliding through the existing regime. Don't hold them with your fingers and your legs, think about it." Today. A year ago, Jesus received a kiss from Judas, who had already planned to betray him. Don't be a Jew. Now, I'd like to give the floor to the national deputy, Sergey the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u84	Please. Just two minutes for 30 seconds to the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u85	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! I'm as worried today as I am on that constitutional night when the father of the Ukrainian Constitution Alexander Moroz, I call him people and people and they respect him for it, gave us the sacred writing of the Ukrainian being, the Constitution. Why am I worried? A portrait of a new Ukraine is being drawn. But the frame of this portrait, I see it in two time dimensions. Alexandre Alexandrovich, September 16, 2001 What does this date and today tell you about? Looking at you, Alexander Alexandrovich, I believe deeply and see you, really. the true artist of Ukraine’s new reformed future. But the more I look at your powers, the more I see that from the brush you're drawing on, the more stubborn the face of another person -- the chief lawyer of Medvedchuk. And Gabriels did not accidentally tell us about the Pure Thursday. But it is you, Alexander Alexandrovich, who know very well that the hand of the bereaved, not of the blessing of Jesus, has been wiped out over what has been done in Ukraine in recent years. And so, Alexandre Alexandrovich, it is up to you whether the action is bloody, “the work they went on”, which began on September 16, 2001 that will end with what they cut their heads off for. Whether it is, or whether it is a demolished thief will drown from defeat, the thief who ordered this portrait. I think it would be better today for that thief to drown from today's defeat, and Kuchma, personally, to think about whether, indeed, September 16, 2001 was the impetus to all the processes that are taking place in Ukraine both politically and geopolitically? Will this record be played for a long time? So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, truly loving you, respecting you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u86	Why did they turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u87	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u88	Aah! Thank you, yes. They gave you their word. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz has a word for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u89	Dear Sergey Petrovich! I'm addressing the deputy chief. You know that I truly respect you as a class lawyer and as a consistent in my struggle. So, after September 16, 2001, when everyone realized that November and the moon had committed a crime. And what the authorities are doing today is to ensure that this crime is not exposed. And we need to change the system, and we need to send power to resign. In December, after the first committee of "Ukraine Without the Couchma" was convened, the first document was written: To change the system of power. And that's why I'm addressing you, everyone else, please, take part in the vote, support my proposals, especially those that are fully aligned with most of the points that came from the Constitutional Court. And that's going to be a contribution to democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u90	Boris Bespalij invites us to the performance, the faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u91	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable colleagues, why is the law of trial kept in court? Otherwise, it's self-sufficient. And today, from the supply of a block of bushmen and communists, there is a self-judgement of the Constitution. That is to say, the Constitution takes account of the specifics set out in their decree. And the great lawyers and the less prominent, you just have to think about it, the bushtown Communists have already by decree abolished the Ukrainian Constitution they don't respect. Like December 24th, when one of them raised his hands up as a sign of surrender, someone scratched his back and then announced the July result. By the way, isn't this scenario being prepared today? The presence of spectre is a reflection of such thoughts. The other one. The essence of the text itself. You know, there's really good standards. But imagine, the hostess is making a pickle, and there's a beet, and a potato, and even some doughnuts, but there's also a couple of tablespoons of cyanide. Here's just one of the spoons that's installed there. Article 90, the President suspends the mandate of the Supreme Council for a period of time unless a coalition is formed within a month. But it's not a simple coalition, it's a coalition according to article 83 of the Constitution. And here's article 83, which contains its own bed of tar. The coalition must be shaped by election results. What an election we had in 2002, after which there was no one. The results of these elections. There were no today’s factions, there was a JEDU, which was then laid down into eight plates. The truth did not make it taste better, nor did it make it taste better. So you have to go back to Ukraine. And now, by the way, it's perfectly clear why it's made it easier to make changes in an extraordinary order right now, right now. Because four months from now, these standards have to be valid. A month later, Kuchma, most of the time, will give you an ultimatum: either full service, or excuse me, dear friends, go back to your business offices, and from here you have nothing to do. And many of the majority, and for example, Gabrieluk, who has been persecuted, admit that they vote for a lot of things out of coercion because they are put on their knees by Kuchma. However, those who are indicated and like them weigh you, dear members of the majority, want to do more in the proper position. And you have an alternative today -- either to enjoy and continue, or to break down the anti-constitutional rebellion of Kuchma, Simonenka, Medvedchuk. Getting off your knees is your last chance to show that you're really Ukrainian people's deputies, not salesmen. And Ukraine will mention you in one way or another. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u92	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u93	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! A five - year debate on political reform in Ukraine is under way, which was initiated in 1999 by the bill of representatives of the left hand forces Simonek and Moroz. So who is under whom today if the right bourgeois nationalist opposition is nagging at us? The essence of reform. We need to move from choosing so-called personalities to choosing political parties that represent certain ideologists. Individuals are mortal, and certain ideologists and political parties that characterize them are eternal. They offer their vision of what is truth, justice, good. And we have our vision that it is truth, justice and good, quite different from you, that our opposition is honorable. Our truth, our justice, our good things forever, just as the teachings of Christ, and yours is changing, and it will go on forever. Why is there so much noise around these changes in the Constitution today by representatives of the bourgeois-national-democracy opposition -- "ourst" and "Fats", the opposition that the political predecessors of which met with the bread-force on July 31, 1941 in Lviv, the German-Fashite invaders and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u94	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u95	And they swore allegiance to Hitler in the SS of Galicina. Not you, political thieves, to reproach the Soviet patriots who put their lives on the fronts of the Great Homeland War and the monuments and obelisks to which you are ruining today. One of the political forerunners who today complained about this was in the communist and party work between 77 and 86 years, and in the 86 and 91 years he was the deputy, the first deputy and head of the Leningrad District Council in Kiev. He betrayed the DPRK, betrayed the Soviet homeland, betrayed the independent Ukraine! That's why I want to say the following: you swore a memorable democracy that gave you certain grants, greedy advances, you didn't work them, and those beer tents that you set up everywhere, including by the walls of the Supreme Council, they'll go into non-existence with you. I propose to take a responsible step today and to endorse the proposals made by the Temporary Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u96	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u97	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear friends, we're talking about anything but constitutional change. I'll try to talk about the constitutional changes. What is suggested in the changes? For the first time, changes are proposed to introduce such a legal concept as “most” or “coalition”. What does that mean? Most are formed not as a legal category, but as an electoral category, the political category is in all countries of the world. But in the right sense, all MPs are equal to the equal and all the citizens they choose. And it doesn't matter whether the MP is in opposition, or whether he's in the majority. It has equal rights. It is the equality of MPs that gives the opposition the right to defend its rights in Parliament. As soon as you enter the concept of “most” as a legal category, you mean that there is the dominance of one group of people over another group of people, and this is inherently you know which ideology, professional and pro-communist ideology. This is understandable why the Communists are now voting for it. And never does a civilized Europe recognize such changes as democratic. The other one. An imperative mandate. The MP is strong. Why is Parliament being created? To reflect different points of view in order to find the best solution. And if the MP says another point of view, tomorrow he'll be expelled from the faction and expelled from parliament, then where the decision will be made. It's only going to be one, sorry, like they said, "buttons." Next. The role of the DA's office in the Stalin-Berijian regime. It was only in Stalin that she exercised general oversight of the Communists. We're destroying the Ombudsman's Institute. What will the Ombudsman do then? Authorized from human rights. It's a democratic institution! What will the Court of Auditors do? She will examine the government that will sit in this Supreme Council and govern it. How can she really test them?Oh, my God! I want to tell you again. These changes are aimed at destroying Parliament above all. And once the government of Parliament sits here, there will be no parliament. And I want you to know that the executive head was very concerned. You're going to have to form a majority. months in line with the 2002 elections. You're going to have to bring back Edu and all the factions. If you don't, you give the President the right to dissolve Parliament. That's what you're actually reporting on. Listen to what we are saying! That's what we told you on the budget. You'll be in trouble today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u98	Replica: Bondarenko, Mishura. And with regard to "the only Ukraine," listen: really, very right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u99	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". I wanted to point out that there are so many people in this room who belonged to that party. But part of them had a conscience and conscience to abandon: of the three million Communists, there was a pitiful pile that had served Kuchma for three electoral periods. That's why I'm proud to say that I left this party. I didn't know that, and most people didn't know that it was she who strangled eight million Ukrainians with starvation. She's the one who sent our parents and our grandparents, she's the one who drowned in the blood. And she's been making provocations for years. And today I got a phone call from Ivano-Frankish: he's lying to the person who announced that a monument had been brought down by the representatives of our Ukraine. Three Communists who remained there were reportedly taken down from a nearby village. They provoked this action. That's the problem. So, really, I don't want to be in a party of provocateurs, and I didn't want to -- and I left. And you will continue to serve the regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u100	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Prepare for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u101	Mishur, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I address everyone. Well, when you use hebelsian intakes and you spray them with saliva, that's one thing. On the other hand, when, in the eyes of the entire Supreme Council and the television cameras, there are a number of punishments and demands in our work regulations, as Deputy Eugene Redonenko did. I'm asking you to start making a note to the MP, and then we're going to ask questions about the removal of his presence in this room for a few sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u102	I'm making a note and I'm sorry about Yuri Solomatin. It's really not a good deal. Let's be. I said I'm making remarks, dear colleagues. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u103	Ukrainian People's Party, faction of Ukraine. In the previous word, I emphasized the reasons of a legal political nature that do not allow us any right to vote for such changes to the Constitution. Now I'm going to stop for moral reasons that should keep you from accepting these changes. Under international law, the decision of power obtained by deception cannot be legitimate. But each of you knows that the initiators of these changes to the Constitution have hidden from citizens and deputies the real objectives of constitutional reform. The proposed constitutional changes are used by the governing oligarchic regime, not as an element of political reform, but as a political technology to preserve the authority of the oligarchs. The whole point of this change is just to mechanically move the power peak from Bankova Street to Gruszewski Street, and then use the administrative resources to prevent people from choosing a full-fledged President from the democratic forces. What do we hear from the initiators of this reform? That it's the best reform in the world, that it forms political and responsible power and is very effective. Who of you would believe a mafia that values a person's life at $2,000 that raises the price of bread in the most productive year that doesn't restore production and drive millions into foreign lands that will voluntarily restrict its power? Don't be ridiculous, Leonid Makarovich, people. The initiators of these changes have opened up a shameless trade. Consider why the Communists have been silent in the Supreme Council for six months. There was no hateful regime for Kuchma or bourgeois and criminal government of Yanukovic. Quiet. The Communists stopped protecting people, their rights. Why? Because they're protecting what Kuchma told them now, protecting the Mafia. And when the guarantor's instructions are followed, they'll keep the Mafia's power, then they'll be allowed to scream again, to protect people. I understand the impatience of the Communists, I think I'd rather get a fee. Alexandre Alexandrovich, a proportional electoral system with a 3 percent threshold is not a proportional system, and you know it, as you know, there are no constitutional guarantees for its implementation. But all of these adopted electoral bills are nothing more than fig leaves that I want left to cover up my unscrupulousness. They say we've adopted electoral legislation, and the president says, "Boys, there's still time to abolish this legislation," and it's like people don't understand that you're trading your honor, trading your political responsibility. I came out here to contact you, distinguished national MPs, asking not to vote for these changes, not to take part in the coup d'état. If you'd listened to me, you'd have fallen off the path Kuchma and Medvedchuk were in your way right after you didn't approve of this law. Without these changes, they cannot persecute you because they are worthless. So I want you to be free people. I urge you not to make chains for yourself, not to make chains for Ukraine. In particular, I call on the Mayors. Be people and citizens!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u104	Frost Alexander. He's got a replica. You weren't mentioned, I just made, according to the Rules, an honourable colleague, a warning to you. Alexander Alexander Moroz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u105	I turn to the speakers on a regular basis, especially our Ukraine. Ivan Alexanderovich, dear! In 2001, when the authorities rolled under your feet, they would have to take it, and they would see it again and again. There was an opportunity. Today it is possible to change the system of power. That's what we've been fighting for for years. So please stop mentioning my last name, because I was consistent with the need to change the system of power, and I stay and I will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u106	Simonenko, the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u107	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable radio audiences! Regrettably, you are witnesses and witnesses of a permanent systematic “false” towards the Communist Party of Ukraine and what is happening today in the walls of the Supreme Council. Second. “Ourists” are trying to change the position of the faction on the reform of the political system through psychological pressure. Why are we up for reform? Because we would like to correct what the “ours” did when you were privatized and robbed by the people of Ukraine, seized, factories and factories, 5 million, you were expelled from Ukraine. We would like to correct everything they robbed when they had 10 per cent and a half per cent of inflation in their Prime Minister and robbed the people of Ukraine. They sent our soldiers to Iraq to fight and shed blood there, and on their fingers today, the deaths of the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian soldiers in Iraq.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u108	Yes, Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. Prepare Viacheslav Kirilenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u109	Commie faction, Rodionov. Respectable radio audiences. First of all, I would like to answer the questions that the visitor asked me at the parliamentary reception yesterday. There was one, the first question: why are you, as a member of the Communist faction, rarely and hardly responding to the insults that occur in the sessional room to the party by “Our Ukraine”. I said to him: 'It is not because I am a coward, I am not afraid of it, but I am using the ancient Greek saying, 'If you have been offended,' she said: 'If you have been insulted, make sure that the man who did this is mentally healthy before answering the insult. If you're not convinced and you're going to respond to these insults, you're going to be sick yourself" is the first thing, comrades. Second. Of course, he's saying how it could have happened. Dear radios, I'd like to say it in the usual way. As an intelligent, I'll never let myself interrupt, and now it sounds like something else. I want to tell you something else. Why is it that, for a year and a half, this person asks, everyone has only talked about reform, about constitutional reform, including our Ukraine, but when that moment came, something happened, and all the parties opposition to the other side. Of course I had to explain it to him. I will not repeat the arguments put forward by the leader of the communists, as this reform has arisen, that, indeed, at the time of the Rise of Ukraine, everything was solid that it is possible, but that in the year 2000 the parties of capital to which I refer the parties of power, which were constantly hampered by this reform, suddenly challenged society, she stated, she could also carry out this reform. The Communists responded, the Communists believe that yes, we are ready to fight you for everyone. And I want to tell you, even though the communists don't have any money, they don't. And you hear what he's doing. Although the communists do not have the money, the communists do not have the power, but the communists do have what the regime has created, including through the faction "Our Ukraine", they have 78 per cent of the population of Ukraine living outside of poverty, according to official statistics. That's the potential he's fighting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u110	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Then, after the speech, prepare for the Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u111	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party Dear colleagues and distinguished listeners, above all, you must know what is happening now in and near the Supreme Council. In the Supreme Council, many civilians, who are on balconys and service facilities, are fully prepared to help the majority and communists change the Constitution. Near the Supreme Council around the pilots from the "Our Ukraine" block and the Yulia block, Timoshenko are in the midst of a reinforced force force squad, which is also fully prepared to influence the thinking of those citizens who have come to stand up for the Constitution now. Here in such a non-democratic environment, changes are being made to our yet democratic basic law. Moreover, members of the majority are not registered because they know that all that is happening today in the hall of their initiative is illegal. Dear radio listeners! We all know that all of President Kuchma's rule worked to increase his powers. We recall the 2000 referendum, when he practically wanted to cancel Parliament, make it a two-bedroom and a small number of deputies, and make himself an authoritarian ruler. We remember that at that time some areas gave 103 percent of the vote in the so - called referendum. We remember, as today, that deputy Gabriels then defended the law, led the so - called implementation, and it was broken. By the way, if the same happens today, it will be a trend in the execution of Deputy Gavrish. In addition, we know that after that failure, there were parliamentary elections in 2002 that won the democratic opposition. And after that, President Kuchma's attitude towards his powers changed, and he proposed a constitutional reform that had nothing to do with the change to the Constitution, but only one task was to preserve the rule of law. Certainly, the Communists, who always wanted only the worst Ukrainian people, could not fail to join in with this goal, resorted to repression, famines, and the destruction of all the progressive things in our country. This is the criminal conspiracy of the oligarchs and Communists that is taking place today in our hall illegally. It doesn't matter what the Constitution says, it's about the reason that the Bushmen and the Communists came together. This company will do everything to ensure that the rights of the people are violated, and the opposition that now has a real chance of winning never wins the election. Now that I know that the Communists and most expect nothing is necessary, I am addressing those who may still have an impact on the results of the vote. First of all, socialists: I don't believe now that this faction and Alexander Frost are personally voting for reform. We will be all impressed and democracy then threatens to split. Alexander Alexander and the Socialists, don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u112	Red Riding Hood and Simonenko. Red girl disagrees with the warning I gave him. Dear colleagues, calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I never cross the past, for there is no future in someone who does not remember his past. That's why I don't agree with people knowingly. I don't know, I never glue labels, do or don't do anything, but they call us "ours" or other accusations, you know why. For me, it's a double offense, because both my grandparents were Communists and they served this country faithfully. And they went from Stalingrad one, the other from Moscow to Berlin. I don't want to hear it. And the last. I warned you that I would never accept physical strength, but I told the whole country that if there were "oursts" again, "American sons-in-laws," with these accusations, we would respond adequately. I agree that if Solomon’s comments are made, then it will be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u114	Peter Simonenko. Calm down, you don't have to! Please! Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u115	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, I would like to remind you again, because this is useless in the hall, and we understand very well why the attack against communists is so high. First of all, I would like to remind you that in 2000, the current representatives of our Ukraine, our “nasists”, took the turn in the Supreme Council. It was they who did everything they could to make a coup in the Ukrainian House, in defiance of the laws, in violation of the laws. Second. I would like to recall once again that we are fighting for a change of power and a decrease in the power of the President. And I hope that this position of Communists is understandable to our constituents. Everything else is done for the sole purpose of justifying all that they have done during these 12 years of destruction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u116	Calm down. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone and the last speaker, let's not, well, dear colleagues, hang each other's tags. Let's work quietly. Or, in other cases, your honor, let's stop speaking from the national MPs and move on to the exchange of lines. That's more interesting. The word has, come on, come on, it's George Manchulenko's word, I've already announced the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u117	George Manchulenko 203 constituency of Chernovetska District of the Ukrainian People's Party faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Head, dear colleagues! I accepted the Constitution in 1996, and I am proud to be a co-author of this Constitution. The International Institutions, the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission gave the highest marks of the Ukrainian Constitution in 1996. And they all admitted it and confessed it. But the authorities led by the President of Ukraine did not allow the branches of power to be balanced. We have not adopted the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has been promised many times. We didn't adopt the Law on the Temporary Investigation Commissions -- he promised. We have not adopted other laws that would make the branches of power normal for the implementation of the current Constitution. So who's to blame? Is it Parliament or is it the fault and authority that did not allow this to happen?Oh, my God! And Alexander Alexander the Moroz, who was then Head of Parliament at the time, knows all these things very well. That the Constitution of 1996 is European! And in order for it to continue to function, we need to adopt a number of laws to balance the relationship between the branches of government. So let's do it in a normal and peaceful way, not rape the Parliament, not abuse the whole country, almost two years after the introduction of what's called constitutional initiatives. We forgot that people are living badly. We know that you, the more faithful government of Yanukovic, have reduced the minimum pension, the minimum wage. Pensions don't pay, pensions are low today, wages suck. Instead of solving social issues, we've spent almost two years in society and parliament to keep the existing financial and oligarchic clans in power. Dear friends, distinguished Ukrainian voters. For you to know that power is now in effect, it does not care about your problems. Those people in the Supreme Council who advocate so-called constitutional reform, regardless of your problems, don't need to raise your minimum wage, they don't need to increase your minimum pension, they don't need to develop production. They need to keep the existing financial and oligarchic clans in power. And we're the only ones with you, if we're not apathetic, we'll all go out and say, "No!" Oligarchic-Finance clans in power, "No!" Now in active mode, "No!" To those who are now in the Supreme Council who want to make an actual coup d'état. Only you and I will not allow what is currently happening in Ukrainian society in the Ukrainian State. People, let us be alert to the coup d’état! Together, we will win. Together with "Our Ukraine" to win!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u118	Solomon’s word is for replication. Catherinechuk. Well, we agreed that after what happened, it would be because we had to do it before. It's called Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u119	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I don't want to comment specifically on the names of some, the speeches of some colleagues on the other side, the opposition of a bourgeois, self-proclaimed. I just want to say one thing: let's see who this opposition represents. It represents the interests of the forgetful democracy, Bzezinsky's grandfather, Albright's grandmother and that gentleman, the best friend of our Ukrainians, George Soros. So, your honor, you're working on the advances you've received today. But you're doing a bad job. You can't do anything. You are the political "headrunners" of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u120	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u121	Nikolai Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. I speak for the first time in Russian and speak the language in which we are called ours. I would like to give a little indication that the term "oursm" has been studied by me personally. I can argue that this terminology was the result of the pyranian technology that was born in Russia, and its use does not honor the Communist Party or any other people who remember fascism, but remember the black plague that made our country 22 million, let's say, fewer people. I don't understand how all you have is a conscience, a tongue to use?Oh, my God! And that "oursm" looks like it. It's a term that almost repeats fascism. And I'm asking you to think what you're saying. You're promoting that party that's banned in the world. Don't do this, it's unconscionable!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u122	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Nechiporeka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u123	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters! All these political battalions that are going through right now in this room are explained in one moment. We passed a ruling yesterday, according to the second paragraph of which no changes to the proposed project can be made. Nothing can be deleted or imported here. So there can really only be political battalions here. So, what do we accept today? This new version of the Constitution, according to the Final Provisions, comes into effect four months after its adoption. That's August 8th. Presidential elections are at stake. But according to the point -- now I'm going to say -- article 83, part 6, Parliament is going to form a coalition in a month's time according to the elections. Deputies! Do you have any idea how we're going to form a majority and a coalition in this Parliament right now? But if we don't create it within a month, then the President, in accordance with article 90, paragraph one has the right to leave. Thus, there may not be a presidential election before the start of this House. In addition, in accordance with article 78, all representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers may have parliamentary mandates. Do you have any idea what it would be like to have a Parliament when in this room, you don't think, at least a third of the cabinet ministers will be sitting? The same Parliament will be completely destroyed. And you're talking about what we're doing with you in political reform. It's nothing like that. It's hypocrisy and deception. We're doing everything we can, that is, those who vote for this project will do everything they can to keep the oligarchy clan in power today. And the last. Why is it so hasty and so hard to do? But the point is, San Francisco, follow the materials, not only over Lazarus, there goes the trial of today's ruler, the thief's peak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u124	Vladimir Nechiporuk, MP of the People's Landing, prepare for the Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u125	Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th constituency, Hmelničina, member of the People's Rule faction. Thank you, Mr. Head! Thank you, Mr. Eugene, for giving me your word. Dear people of Ukraine! I declare to you, as a doctor of science, an academic, a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine, a national party of the Ukrainian, Russian and Belarusian peoples who live in Ukraine, that this reform completely destroys the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. Articles of the Constitution, every Ukrainian citizen has the right to choose and be elected, another 7 articles of the Constitution towards the deterioration and destruction of the rights of the people. It is proposed by a gang of so - called reformers to change the Constitution and to mix the election right. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't do that. It's absurd. And there's no one who can mix these two rights if he's a literate person, especially a parliamentarian. On behalf of the people of Ukraine, I ask you to exclude from the bill on constitutional reform the paragraphs: proportional elections and an imperative mandate. I turn to your haughtiness and to your fear, honor, and conscience, and you have nothing holy. Otherwise, today you would not impose on us "banditian, anti-national" changes to the Constitution to leave behind the full authority and destruction of the Ukrainian, Russian, Belarusian peoples who live in Ukraine, but would adopt the Order on the immediate withdrawal of our Armed Forces from Iraq. Today, the real liberation fight against American invaders, the black forces of the world, the authorities of Ukraine have sent their young, boys who have sold $500 per head and are dying there today. It is a stupid, anti-national, anti-State policy of the leaders of the Fascist junta in Ukraine. If there are other people in this room, national MPs who want to protect the people and the state of Ukraine. I ask you to stand by my side, and we will protect our nation and our people from death. I ask all the national MPs who are on the side of protecting the people and our daughter, Ukraine, to withdraw the cards and not vote for this shameful reform, but to vote in favour of an immediate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u126	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask only you, with respect to international, interstate relations, to speak more correctly, not to use such non-diplomatic terms. We're in Parliament after all. The word is Paul Mokchan, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. I'm asking you a question. Can the watchman who is called to protect the treasure call for thieves and say rob? He can't do that. Then he too becomes a thief and an accomplice to robbery. Can the guarantor call on those who want what is most important to Ukraine? The Constitution, the standards that have been verified, that have been balanced here and by all political forces must be destroyed. I don't want to talk about that damn family that is going crazy today before the day of the Lord’s resurrection. But I would like to ask those two people who are most responsible. First. Leonid Makarovich, you were here today in this rostrum to talk about the Constitution and the one that doesn't exist. You referred to standards that you don't have. And I'm asking, have most of you read? Are you familiar with the article that will put you out of here in August? If you do not understand, read it. And then you'll see what you're voting for. But today I would like to turn to someone who might have taken on a metaphysical role yesterday, this is Judas, who took thirty pieces of silver that night, very symbolic? And we'll know who has the thirty pieces of silver, and who should look for the axis tree? My appeal to someone who has no right to be called an honest, decent, conscientious politician who, I know, will not vote. He'll say, "I didn't vote when I didn't vote for the government of Kinah." Alexandre Alexandrovich, you know, I appealed to you last time. It is up to you whether this pack will continue to rob Ukraine, and this damned family will tear it apart, and this kiss of betrayal will be strengthened by today’s vote. Think about it. For about them, who brought these men to the left today, he brought them twice to the authority of Kuchma. You, Peter Mikolaiovich, you brought him to the election, and you planted him and you pillaged Ukraine together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u128	Simonenko, the line. Don't call it names, call it factions. Microphone, please. Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u129	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, I know him well, and I can tell you a lot about this personality without having to argue with the previous speaker. But I would like to quote the words of their leader, who were proclaimed on March 9, last year at the holy site of the monument Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, where he acknowledged to all the people of Ukraine that this is ours, "Our Ukraine", in 1999, was brought in for the second term of President Kuchma. That's exactly what your leader Yushchenk said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u130	Now there'll be a line. After the speech, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka will be your right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u131	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I want to draw your attention, as I think, to a very interesting fact: as Kuchma himself recently did in the forum, including today his speakers from the manufacturing factions explain the need for changes to the Constitution. The argument is irresponsible, inefficient government. I think it's a higher level of cynicism that can only be demonstrated today. But to the irresponsible unprofessional who does not give authority, he will not handle it. And my grandfather would say something like this: break it down, uncle, from the roof and don't spoil the gongs. And that's the first thing that this authority would have to do. [[Applause]] Sadly, though, this authority cannot do so. And that's why we need to understand that the system really needs to be changed. But first let's take it off the roof of that uncle who's getting sick of everybody. The algorithm should be just like that. Thesis Two: Why is it so hasty and so radically on the other side today that the bushmen try to make changes to the Constitution? Ukraine, as I see it, is at a very responsible stage at the threshold of the presidential election. And perhaps for the first time these presidential elections have a very important sign — we today, the Ukrainian people, know clearly not only who to drive and what kind of broom, but also who to support today, for perhaps for the first time in the Ukrainian elite there is a team that is capable not only of taking power but also of managing it effectively. And that's what they were afraid of. And the most feared of all was the authorities, but they're also trying to fit in with others, and including, very bitterly, I don't want to offend anyone, but with the behavior of the Communists. And I can't help but say that. First of all, let's not generalize, because this is wrong: millions of them are decent people, the problem is not Communists who are insulted and robbed, but the problem with the elite of the Communist Party, which today, unfortunately, is being deceived because it is not Ukrainian and not Ukraine is building. And that's why we have to tell them our first wishes today. Get up and build Ukraine. And the second. I want to turn to you and say that the worst thing I can do for me is not just for me, but for many millions of voters today, the behavior of another left faction, the faction of socialists. And I'm just cursing, and I'm asking my colleagues, I respect you very much, we're going to change the Constitution, we're going to make power effective, but not thieves, and let's finally think about what Ukraine will be like tomorrow, before we think about how.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u132	From our Ukraine he will make a wise replica of Igor Raphaelovich. Then Alexander Moroz, Peter Simonenko. You'll get the word after the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u133	Yukhnovsky "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. I'd like to very much ask the representatives of our Ukraine to stop attacking the communists. I would very much like to ask the representatives of the communists to stop attacking our Ukraine. It's not about these attacks where we attack each other, it's about constitutional reform. I want to ask everyone who will speak out of the rostrum right now to tell us and the people what constitutional reform is all about, not to talk about mutual attacks that only harm Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u134	Yes, Alexander Moroz, then Peter Simonenko, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u135	I'm addressing everyone here at the meeting. Don't you see, people are as good as we are in this fight. Why do you base yourself on such divorce? Yesterday, Anatoly Sergeiovich Matvienko, we went with you and sought compromise between our Ukraine and the communists in order to build a mechanism that would allow for a convincing vote for the necessary reform. You yourself have seen that it is not our fault to do so, for there is a desire on one side of everything as it is to leave to take power. But if the guarantee were the least, you could accept it. But there is no guarantee. And here I am talking to Pavel Mikhailovich. You're a really smart man. Well, why, when you get to the rostrum, it's like someone is putting you in the same place. You don't have to do this! People are good, people will figure it out, after all! And my respect for you will remain with you. You just don't have to put dirt on each other right now. This brings joy to the third. You don't have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u136	Peter Simonenko. I see, I see. Then Leonid Makarovich was mentioned five times. Leonid Makarovich has the right to a replica for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u137	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, well, the Romans had a double Janus. Here and how many characters it's hard to even figure out. So I would like to remind him once again, in answering my previous allegations to my address, who was the head of the government, protecting both governments and personally President of Ukraine Kuchma? Answer: The head of the Viennese State of Anatoly Matvienko. Who led the NDP party that first said, "We're fighting for Ukraine's future in the lead with President Kuchma?" Anatoly Matvienko. Thank you. You have a hard time determining how many faces, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u138	I see. Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. His name has been mentioned many times. He's entitled to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, the five national deputies referred to my presentation. I didn't take a line after everyone. I have five minutes to concentrate. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully followed the logic of those who oppose constitutional reform. The vast majority used the same phrase: "Power is imperfect, power is bad, nobody needs to be given authority: neither to the prosecutor, nor to the Prime Minister, nor to Parliament, but to leave everything to the President." Because the speaker was not thinking about Ukraine but about himself and his president. I emphasize: I will vote for the changes to the Constitution. Because I believe that these changes will enable the balance of power to be established, they will enable power to form democratically and pave the way for the normal functioning of power. That's why I'm going to vote for the changes to the Constitution. Next. I am absolutely convinced that national MPs who have experience who understand what awaits them when authorities are concentrated in the hands of one person, regardless of their nature, they will understand that they need to vote for reform. To be honest, I'd like to wait or we didn't vote. I would like to wait for this Constitution to remain as it is, and for the President to be elected with these powers to look at those who do not vote today for changes to the Constitution. I'd like to see it. That is why I believe and believe that we are voting today for reform and that we are going to put a stop to all the discussions behind which the MP's personal position stands, and the personal position of his integrity. Dear National Deputies! Christ expelled those who traded from the temple. Before the Passover, I want to remind myself of this. There's a very wise Ukrainian saying, "In the house hanged and not spoken of." So I'd like to ask you not to complain about honor and dignity, because there's no need to talk about it in the mall. And there are no exceptions here, because we know exactly who's selling and who's buying. And finally. I want to sell Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u140	Yeah, one minute. He has a word for it. Just a minute. And Anatoly Matvienko. No two minutes, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! I know it's already a plot, it's already been written. Yesterday everything was already determined and everything was bought, and sold, as the previous speaker said. We will find out who has already received, and we know almost how much and why, but in response to the leader of the Communists. You've brought to power, indeed, twice the Kuchma. The last time you could give up to win Alexander Alexander the Frost, you didn't. And Tuckenko didn't get the chance. And you know, Melnichenko's films also have the amounts you were divided. And I'd like you not to trade this moment, because all you're writing is the day before that moment, which is called the Resurrection, really. Satanism will be conquered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u142	No, it's not. Anatoly Matvienko, mentioned twice, Alexander Moroz, Peter Simonenko. So two minutes. One minute, what a story. Then Peter Simonenko. I follow the Rules clearly. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u143	Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Anatoly Matvienko. I am deeply concerned, Alexander Alexandrovich, and I understand you very well. What's more, I'm very sorry for you and, believe me, I really want us to compromise. But not with thieves, as you said, not with machinators, not with people who have dirty hands. And that's why I urge you to do so. Let's actually do the Constitution with clean hands. Regarding what Peter Mikolaiovich said. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! You're not even what you don't know in the past, you don't even know in the history of history. I want to remind you, when I was the head of the general government, really, I made a statement on the whole of Ukraine from the rostrum of the party that Kuchma was surrounded by thieves, Lazarenko the first. And he wanted him to retire. After seeing dozens of thieves come to Lazarenko’s place, I said from the same gathering of the NDP that Kuchma cannot be president, and the NDP has no right to support the one who gives birth to the theft and has left this party. And that's why I want to remind you of another truth. I told you personally in 1999 and through the press, you're going to bring Kuchma to the second term, and you did. Today you want to bring him in on a third term and I'm warning you one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u144	Peter Simonenko and then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u145	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Well, calm down. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u147	Once again, I would like to invite you to understand what the representatives of the political forces are trying to do against reform. They want to leave it the way it is. And first. Their motivation came from the west because they were given instructions after Albright arrived. You can't change the Constitution, because then a representative like Georgia, that's the only one we need in Saakashvili. That's why they're fighting the changes to the Constitution today is the first. The other one. I'd like to remind you of Melnick's words, who said yes, unfortunately, but I don't have any records of Simonck's conversations with Kuchma. I've also officially invited, I say, give and publish, please let the people of Ukraine know how I defended the interests of the people of Ukraine and how I fought against how ours sold interests by speculating positions and portfolios that they're doing right now. And the third. Once again, I want to remind Matthew, to be consistent, or first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you simply, let's not mention other countries, other presidents, in the heat of our controversy. Let me ask you this, let's do this. We don't interfere with their affairs, so their business, whatever they want, is what they do. Please, it's Assadchev's line. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u149	Dear friends! I don't take it. I don't take it. And I'm not going to say it like that. I will speak, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, according to procedure. I asked for a procedure, I'll tell you what. If the MP does not take a replica, he himself, personally, refuses it, does not put it in his pocket to then come out and talk for an hour from the rostrum. There is no such thing in the Rules. I think you're now showing not a better example of how the Rules will work in this Supreme Council after making changes to the Constitution. I'm asking you, they haven't changed yet, let's stick to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u150	Thank you. We had a discrepancy here, we didn't know how to do it. And so we did, if you think so, let's consult and do as you suggest. I'm just, in general, honourable colleagues, I suggest: let's assign numbers to the factions, let's assign numbers, let's call numbers, let's not call each other numbers, let's not call each other anything. And it's gonna be okay. Sergey Sobolev, "Our Ukraine" faction, has the word to prepare for Igor Ostashu.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u151	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I like it very much when this rostrum is made by those who have been crying out for political reform three years ago, which calls for the destruction of Parliament, the creation of two chambers in Parliament, the granting of additional rights to the dissolution of this Parliament, the opportunity to destroy parliamentaryism in Ukraine as much as possible. Now the same people, realizing that they had no opportunity to come to power, suddenly declared that they were in favour of expanding parliamentary powers. And I'd like to remind these people that you were sitting in the same Presidium about two and a half years ago saying that we need to strengthen the President's power, that the President doesn't have the authority to continue to do so. Next. I would like to read the existing Constitution because many of you, I think, haven't even opened it, and I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is involved in filing with the President of Ukraine about the creation, reorganization and liquidation of ministries. The Prime Minister shall submit nominations for the appointment of the heads of the district administrations. The Prime Minister is proposing to appoint members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Would you please tell me, in this state with President Kuchma, this standard of the Constitution has once been in force? From what you change and record, the Prime Minister will now appoint a part of the government and submit to Parliament, or the President will submit to Parliament. Do you not realize that changing and shifting these words will not alter the order of power in today’s Supreme Council? What's it all about? It is for some to keep criminal cases on them, to intimidate them with tax administrations and tax checks to keep them sitting in this majority. For others, it seems that a beautiful candy is being offered. Only the cover is removed, and everyone realizes that for two years, at least, the authority of Kuchma remains in this country. Alexander Alexanderovich, you know, in two years, there will be no proportional fair elections in Ukraine if this Medvedchuk and Kuchma power remains for two years. Is that not understandable? And a key principle moment. In my opinion, the voting that will take place today is a very good test of whether the whole system of relations really needs to be changed and brought into line with the existing Constitution the entire legislative base of Ukraine. Whether to now try to accuse each other, including the last speakers who claimed they were, someone seems to be stealing from Ukraine. Think of the decree only of Blasco. Leonide Makarovich, where was the trading fleet of Ukraine? And that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u152	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u153	Igor Ostrash, "Our Ukraine" faction, Stryski constituency. Dear Ukrainians! We can actually be with you today to witness the execution of the requiem of Ukrainian democracy. What will the majority vote for today? It will vote for the political forces of oligarchs who do not have the support of the Ukrainian people, for whom only 12 percent of voters voted, with the support of the communists to preserve and preserve the Kuchma regime in power with little rocking. The Chimera house will be transferred from Bank to Gruszewski. It's nothing but usurpation of power. And really this day can enter the history of Ukraine as the day of the coup d'état. But what I'd like to say is that I understand why they are voting today for changes to the Constitution. Because they fear their people! They fear the next presidential election. They fear the choice, the next choice of the Ukrainian people. And I think I understand very well what the Kuchma regime is going to do in this room today. But what's with the communist oligarchs? It's very simple. It turns out that in the Medvedchuk Simonenko tandem, one of them specializes in mayonnaise condom technology. Well, the honorable communists, not all of them, because I'm a lot of you, and I'm a lot of you, and I'm a lot of you, and I'm a lot of you, and I'm a lot of you, and I'm a lot of you. Keep in mind that you will be used in this role. I don't know if mayonnaise or not mayonnaise, and then you'll have the same fate as your colleagues in Russia -- a new electoral law will be passed, and you'll be in the history trash just like in Russia. But I also want to address Christians from the parliamentary majority in this room. Today, on a clean Thursday, you still have a chance to have a political bath for those who force you by force, by threats, by pressure to vote without conscience, or by honour. I ask you to go through this political Golgoph and be resurrected in spirit just before the resurrection of Christ, just before Easter. And you will enter the history of Ukraine, not as rebels, but as real sons of the Ukrainian people. Today, Gavres spoke or cheated, telling us sweetly that this is a European reform, and it is perceived by Europe. But tell me, where, in which state is the democratic constitution adopted without an article discussion? And you know, unfortunately, most of us are willing to enter a totalitarian reservation here and sell Ukraine just to get rid of power. So I am addressing you, honourable representatives of the parliamentary majority, today Pure Thursday, remember, otherwise you will not have one Thursday to wash away. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u154	Replica, I see. Peter Cibenko, a replica, a faction of Communists. Prepare for Jaroslav Kendzior's performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u155	Thank you. Zybenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have witnessed another attempt to corrupt the position of the Ukrainian Company. You know, it would be funny if it wasn't so bitter. Because these accusations come out of the mouth of a political force that has been destroying Ukraine for 14 years. It destroys, by concealing the political idea, by leading the Kabmin in the post of vice-prime ministers and ministers, by fleeing to the Ukrainian House, destroying the work of the Supreme Council for the first time, by introducing the practice of halting the laws of the social Ukraine through inclusion in the State Budget, because it was the first time in the government of Yushchenka that this practice was introduced. The people appreciated these efforts by thanking her for her destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u156	Yes, dear fellows, we continue our work for 15 minutes. At 2.20 p.m., a meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place with the participation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u157	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenk's faction "Our Ukraine". Dear friends, distinguished colleagues, national MPs. I'll remind you that I've had the joy of having a constitutional night, and I've had the drama and the happiness of a constitutional night in front of my eyes. I think it would be useful here today to discuss the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine to demonstrate, at least, this final part of the adoption of the Constitution, namely, the morning of the 28th number and to speak out of this rostrum of President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine. Those who survived this constitutional night remember that Leonid Danilovich was so happy that Parliament was born early in the morning by the Constitution, which announced that he would reward all the deputies who were in the hall with some rewards. And right now, this man is clearly in favour of changing, rewriting the Constitution. I am convinced that today, anyone in this rostrum of legal, legal arguments is said to be in my wise village, although the circle is on the head of comfort. The company that formed itself and made the corresponding commitments and oaths will not accept any argument. In this situation, I am surprised by the position of one man and the faction he is leading. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm looking your way. I remember that you survived this constitutional night. And, indeed, then, respect for you as a politician, for the head of parliament, was raised very high. And you today, when you argue your position, Alexander Alexandrovich, you say you need to change the system of power. You're a wise man -- and you don't seem to realize that if we change this system of power that's being proposed, we won't change the staff of this power. And these personnel on this system are going to do what they're going to do, they're going to do what they're going to do today. Well, don't make yourself a man who doesn't seem to understand simple, simple things. A strange position, well, not strange, of course, the consistent position of the leader of the communists again that we want to leave things the way they are. Well, once again, the position of the communists is exactly the result of what remains of both the staff and the entire structure that is today. And I want to conclude by saying that if even you, your honor friend, as it has already been said here, you intend to do all this, don't be happy. You're happy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u158	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Petra Kachuru prepare. Paula, Paula, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u159	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yushchenka's "Our Ukraine" faction. Of course, everyone in this room and on the street understands that the main content of today's political reform is to leave it as it is. Why, and to whom does this benefit? Let's think about it. It's been 12 years. During this time, nuclear weapons have been running around, and so far, in most of the different parts of the room, the charges against each other sound. About 10 missiles went missing, about 20. Interestingly, who was hampered by Ukraine’s nuclear shield, and who began to destroy it? In whose direction did this take place? I was wondering why the fishing fleet from Odessa crossed Liberia. And who started this process? Where did the population’s contributions go, and why were they not returned over the past 12 years, with the world’s unprecedented privatization of large objects? I'd like to ask why 7 million Ukrainians are going abroad today, and our President is dreaming of flying to the moon and Mars. Rather, he wanted these people to return home to their families. I would like to ask who proved that she is today a leader in the spread of AIDS. I'd like to ask, they're still killing journalists like that, and they're going to continue doing it with impunity. And when you mention these things, it's hard to tell who started who went on for the last 12 years. It's hard to separate one from the other, and so when you mention the Ukrainian saying that "hand washes," then the speeches from this rostrum of the leadership of individual factions become clear. The hand washes and fears not to give in these hands when the authorities change, when other people come and ask: What have you done, gentlemen, that you have turned our country into a European trash can? I would like to say that when they dream about going to Mars in this case, and when we're stuck here with reform, we have to remember all of this. Now, there is another force. I was very interested to see two presidential election campaigns in all the columns of Ukraine and in all the toilets of all the red - skinned chiefs hanged by feathers, who were certainly put on display as some sort of mockery in Ukraine’s territory. Did anyone forget that? Did the paygalineen and the Moseseans, who cloned specifically to allow the Amoeba of the Communist Party, which had already been reduced to an immeasurable degree, fail? I think only a man unprincipled who forgives everything can forget it. He even forgives self-pity and spitting in his own face. So when I see this guy's portrait in Business magazine with a $15,000 watch on his hand, I ask, so whose interests are you fighting for, and where are you going to get that salary to wear those watches? And what I'd like to say is that these phrases that are deliberately being cast here,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u160	Mikola Kravchenko, a replica. Please, Paul Kachur will speak now from the faction of "Our Ukraine." I asked you not to call. Ivan Alexandrovich, I asked you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u161	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The hysterical, last speaker who wears such an obscenity that borders with madness is a schizophrenic statement that allows for an assessment of the bloc he represents. It is the simplest, most respected voters today. Today, this faction, which had already been in power, was the vice-premiers, ministers, prime ministers, banks, decommissioned factories in their pockets -- the people's good -- today they want to retain that power. So, I think our voters understand that and will properly evaluate what's going on in the hall today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u162	Paul Kachur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u163	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm not one of those idealists who thinks they're going to convince someone here. Unfortunately, there are no more arguments here in the room, the stakes are made and the process has gone. So I would like, first of all, to take advantage of the rostrum of the Supreme Council, to address our voters and to tell them what is the basic essence of the political reform that is being carried out in Ukraine today. Dear voters! You hear a lot of good words about the need to limit authority, to make power transparent, to make power more responsible. That's all the breadth behind which is one main goal, how to take away the right of choice from the electorate and because of its choice to influence the authorities. Notice, then, how can the electorate be removed from his office for two years? You say you need to limit someone's authority. Yeah, no problem, that's not the point. For two years the government’s mandate is transferred, which is formed by a majority that has not received the support of Ukrainian citizens. 12 percent of the voters for "Edu" and 6 percent for "SDPU" is the political capital that is forming today's majority in the Supreme Council. There was another force that was used to blackmail other MPs and to create what is called the majority. This is the majority of the rights that are not delegated from the electorate, and today these powers are passed on to the government that will form it. This is the key issue of reform today. And my distinguished political opponents, when you say that you need to restrict someone's authority, you need to understand that because of this constitutional reform you restrict the power of the Ukrainian people for two years after elections to influence power. Dear friends, I'm looking at this room, I'm listening to it all, and I think, like most of you, we feel terrible shame. You see how effectively here in this session hall, the provokers put us on top of each other, how they create conditions for us, when instead of solving the key problems that are in the state today, we're not doing what we need. We are imitating political reform. Dear friends, I'm not going to look for who's right, who's wrong. But I would like to refer to those leaders who in 1999 destroyed, discredited, stained your honor even with human blood, as you can today go on to preserve this regime for two more years. Dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u164	John Stojko, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to speak. Get ready for Mikola Rudkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u165	John Stoyko, People's Movement, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters who listen to us with great attention today. Today is the day of truth for Ukraine. The political shoes that cried out yesterday!Oh, my God! Today, they are leading the Constitution to crucify this terrible week in order to perpetuate the agonizing regime. A year later, Kuchma wanted to change the basic law. The project of the so-called reform has changed considerably, but the tasks remain unchanged. Cutting off the powers of the future The President's temporary special commission, realizing that Kuchma's election The company doesn't win a good idea, a gift for Easter, a changed castrated Constitution. What are they offering us? Accepting the Constitution by homos, not discussing each article, prohibiting amendments, but violating it as a minimum of 3 articles of the Supreme Council Rules. First, article 6.6.4, paragraph 5, which states that the bill is being considered directly. Amendments, questions and suggestions may be made at the meeting of the Supreme Council. Next. Article 6.9.2. paragraph 3 states that discussion of the law can take place under a reduced procedure, except for the interpretation of the Constitution. So the bushmen, together with the communists, want to forever roll into the asphalt the tiny seedlings of democracy, opening the gateways to the Constitutional, you know, coup d'état in Ukraine. And this is done on the backdrop of the big ruin that he created in 10 years of the regime that today has turned into a pathology called "Qumbism." What do we got? Cards bread, media outlets close their mouths, unbroken journalists are killed, strangled, pensioners cheated, and military officials are planning to be thrown out. And on this background, you communautaires have reached the Holy, the Constitution. Is she that bad? Does it prevent you from setting up the 37th year mode? You're already cleaning up the opposition. The Constitutional Court has already been transformed into a castration court. And what support was found in the bushmen? I'll tell you, from the eternal advocates of workers' rights, from the Communists who left the working people behind for one purpose so that the bushmen would let them into the official trough. Comrades Simoneka, and unfortunately I must say that the clumsy Alexander Frost for a deeply stinking bark sold their honour, mind, and conscience. I think the Ukrainian people will appreciate your feats. The rape of the basic law must take place in a matter of hours. But this time you will not be able to eat the fish and fool the people. There's not enough noodles for all of Ukraine. So from that point of view, we understand that there is a need for change and a need for reform, but after 2006, I agree with Alexander Frost here. I believe that the black plan of Kuchma, Medvedchuk, Simonna will not be accepted today. Christ will resurrect Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u166	Yuri Lucenko instead of Rudzkowski, please. What? Right after the show. Get ready for Mélník Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u167	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Yuri Lucenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine Here in the session room, we are now witnessing an ancient Ukrainian disaster. Communists and nationalists fight each other, but the gang wins. That gang that defeated the people of Ukraine in 1994, held in power in 1999, which stood up in 2001. She stood by the passivity and the Yushchenka and our Ukraine today, and Simone, the Communist Party of Ukraine. Today, these forces reunite with each other, and Kuchma is fully prepared for the third term. Are we such idiots here in this room that now our ambitions, our inter-party quarrels triumph over the fact that Kuchma-3 is a bitter and serious reality? Some hang nationalists and U.S. agents on our Ukraine. And people believe that. Others call for a fifth column and Russian agents. And people believe that. And tomorrow, TV shows will show the clash of gangsters and mosquitoes, and people will believe the beginning of civil unrest, or maybe wars. [[It's all in the cages.]] And then it comes out red on a white horse and says it's going to save the only Ukraine from civil shocks. Do we want it or not in this room? If we think about this scenario, let's ask ourselves, are we ready to give him the powers that the President has today under the Constitution? Are we prepared to give such dictatorial powers to the next President Kuchma, even if his name is different? Are we ready to believe that Yushchenko, Moroz, Simonenko or who else will become President will be an angel with such powers? No, I don't believe that. I don't believe in any kings or good or bad, I've been in opposition to today's Kuchma regime since 93, and I've been a member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine since 91, and today it's a huge problem for me to choose between a very imperfect 4105 and to leave the next dictator, the President with any last name. I want all of us to squeeze out today on Kuchma's drop. I want all of us to vote together today for the state's normal civilized version proposed by Alexander Alexander Moroz, where the next Prime Minister will have many powers, but the next President will have the right to appoint governors, the Henprocuror and so on. This is the balance of power that we need today. I'm asking you to stop arguing between us and come together as in that memorable 96th year at the normal, European, civilized, state-owned approach of Alexander Alexander Moroz and the bill he proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u168	Yes, Mikola Eutychyevich Melnik. You'll get it in the end. Get ready, Touchka, the last speaker. Domansky will then have the end of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u169	Mikola Melnik, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnichtina The Honourable Chairman, honourable deputies, honourable voters, proposals for Bill No. 4105, introduced by Alexander Moroz, provides the necessary balance in the system of government. It limits the current interests of existing personnel. Such an approach creates a balance in the change of power and guarantees predictability to the political forces. And there are no risks or threats to the dissolution of the Supreme Council. The proposed changes to the Constitution are aimed at moving to the parliamentary-presidential model. And in case the project isn't accepted by two thirds of the vote today, it's to be buried forever. The people's aspirations, the thieves in the law threw them off the national olympus. Joining the proposal not to change anything, leaving as it is, it's for decades to leave elections on a mixed system, it's for decades to leave the power of criminality against which the entire nation is groaning. It is primarily to leave the power to continue robbing the people and no matter who it is, Kuchma, Yanukovic or Yushchenko. This is a warning that Kuchma has the opportunity to move into the Cabinet of Ministers and further establish her authority for two years to build a parliament. So there's a warning that without proportional choices of all levels, we'll never end up with a criminality, or a Qutmin, or a Yvesten, or a Yanukovic. I am fully responsible for the fact that the arrival of Yashchenk by the President will deepen the dictatorship of criminality. The Yushchenka block team is 80 percent of the oligarchs with criminal history. And there's absolutely no difference between Yushchenka and Kuchma's team. Yushchenka's statement that the reforms that Frost and our party have undertaken are the Kuchma dictatorship -- it's nothing more than an encroachment on the people of Ukraine. Joining the concept of the Yushchenka Block is primarily to deepen the dictatorship of criminal oligarchy crime and to sink Ukraine into darkness, poverty, destruction and destruction for 10 years. Therefore, all of you, Your Honor, please support the Alexandre Alexandrovitch Moroza bill, which will change the destructive power of democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u170	Peter Toločko. I see, in the end, we made a deal with you. Peter Petrovich Toloczko, members of the People's Rule. Then Domansky, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u171	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I am sorry that our discussion today took such obscene forms with mutual images. In fact, Ukraine’s fate, the fate of its future, is being resolved by a question that is ultimately brought about by opposition. I remember well, two and a half years ago, when the position was trying to balance the power system in Ukraine, and how it rebuked the president, who had royal authority. And what happened today that you refused? I'm ready to bow to Alexander Alexander Frost. You're talking about morality today. And indeed, Alexander Alexanderovich is demonstrating the morals of politics. All those who are not in power, whatever their name is, under the existing system of the Constitution will be contradictions and will be fighting each other. So let's be consistent and today let's agree with what Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich is offering. I had a conversation with Victor Andriovich today. It's very characteristic, I want you to know it. He meets me and says, "Mr. Academics, how are you going to vote?" I say, "Victor Andryovich, I'm going to vote in favour of reform, especially since you initiated it your own time." He says, "What, are you selling the regime?"
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u172	Please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u173	I say, "Victor Andriyovich, well, how can you, claiming to be president, insult a citizen without a basis?" He says, "I'll prove to you that you've been sold to the regime." And, you know, I've been in a lot of pain. He insulted me. But on the rostrum, Viktor Andriyovich repeated everything for the whole room. And I think if Victor Andriyovich comes to power, and five years will be spent finding a compromise against the only opponent, our country is poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u174	Domanski, turntable microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable voters! You must have noticed that I'm being held back. But what is pouring from the Supreme Council's rostrum to the Company today makes me want to say a few words. Vladimir Mihajlovich, you are a native of Novograd-Wolzynski district, and you know very well that banditry is a native sister of Fascism. They're the ones who walked under the drums and the SS standards in our Ukraine. And today, the Band-Aid is already marching in Western Ukraine, but under other signs. I have to say that a gang member, like the Soviet Officers' Union, is no longer going to pass in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-08-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00 p.m. After the break, we will continue to consider the matter. To the heads of the MPs and factions, please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
