ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:42]] Registered -412 A total of 412 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Budagyan Mikli Abramovich and Poljančich Mikhail Mikhailovich. Let us greet them, wish them good health and success in their work. Another ad, my dear fellows. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 4.2.2., 4.2. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leonid Leonidovich, from the MP's faction of "Ukraine", Bičkova Sergio Anatoliyovich, from the deputy faction of the political parties "Industries and Entrepreneurs" and "Trudova Ukraine". Dear colleagues, the list of issues identified by the Conciliation Council you have to consider today and make decisions. The two factions, the faction of our Ukraine, also the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, have called for a 30-minute recess and a meeting. No meetings, right? I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues, after 30 minutes, to continue our work. An interval of up to 10 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please take your seats. I want to remind you that two factions -- the faction of our Ukraine and the block of Julia Timoshenko -- took a break for 30 minutes. Please, who will speak with information about this? Sergei Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u3	Honorable colleagues, respected friends, distinguished voters, held elections in Mukachevo on April 18, 2003. Victor Baloga, a candidate for our Ukraine, won a decisive victory. For him, 19,000 votes were cast. 385 voters. His opponent, a candidate of power, received nearly 5,000. fewer votes. The elections in Mukachevo have shown that citizens trust Our Ukraine, support the struggle for the well-being of the people, for democracy. These results of the victory are confirmed by the protocols of the district commissions. This choice required real courage on the part of Mukachevo residents. For two years now, the authorities have been trying to impose pressure on the city: cynical intimidation, outright violation of the law, pressure on justice — all used to deprive citizens of their ability to choose power. Dirty technologies, however, have broken down into the public maturity of the electorate. We show respect and gratitude to all who have shown their will for democratic change, who have given their vote for them. Mukachevo once again showed that in an honest fight, power loses. To hide her loss, the authorities threw organized criminal groups at the polling station. Joint commissions, observers, national deputies had to reflect attacks by criminal gangs for the apparent abduction of law enforcement agencies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, a neurosurgeon with the world name Mikola Policchuk, was beaten directly at the site. Unpunished bombers beat an elderly man’s face with their feet. Criminal intimidation, mass pogroms and beatings of people are fascist means of power grabbing. However, our Ukraine, along with representatives of other democratic forces, managed to control the electoral process. The joint commission was able to complete a vote in the presence of observers, including international ones, and the protocols were preserved from the destruction of the bandits. And today, these documents are in complete conformity with undeniable evidence of Victor Baloga’s victory, a testimony to falsification by the authorities. The territorial electoral commission can't confirm the documents with which it said "outputs" in quotes. National deputies of Ukraine Roman Immortal, Yuri Pavlenko, Peter Olijnik, Taras Stackov were brutally beaten by members of the IMF special division for demanding a transparent vote. The organizers of violence and counterfeiting wanted to show that the law against them was powerless. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Block" Timoshenko requires the President of Ukraine to fulfil his duty to protect the Constitution, to ensure fair summary of the elections. We demand the resignation of President Medvedczuk's chief of staff, President Medvedczuk's head, and the minister of internal affairs of Bilokon, because they are the ones who organized everything that was directly in Mukachevo. We require law enforcement agencies to investigate crimes objectively and independently and to establish the perpetrators. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u4	Thirty. Well, calm down. 30 seconds, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u5	And the last. This night, security guards were removed from Mukachevo, and a gang broke out, which directly removed all the ballot papers and electoral documents of the territorial election committee. So I'm convinced that everything has already been destroyed, except for the original protocols that we have. That is why the organizer of these crimes, the party of the SDPU, we demand that we ban as one who has done everything possible to disrupt the peace and order of the state. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u6	Thank you, sit down. Shufrich, a line, please. Dear colleagues, please sit down. That's not what we agreed. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! On April 18, there was an election of the martyr’s head, and as a party to the electoral process on election day, I would like to report that there were no disturbances during the election until the fifth hour of the night. At five o’clock, when the candidate, the outsider, Ernest Nuser, was declared victorious with the advantage of five thousand votes by individual national deputies, as it was later discovered, the Sabbath began in Mukachevo. A working committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was held yesterday. An interval of up to 21 hours was announced for 30 minutes. At 9:00 p.m., no one showed up for 30 minutes. About 23 hours later, Alexander Zinchenko, deputy head of the Supreme Council, was taken to the torture chamber by Sergey Ratushnyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Please calm down, everybody, take your seats! I'm asking you to take your seats. We'll determine what needs to be done. I say again, if you want the Conciliation Council, we'll do it during the break. Dear colleagues, if you want, if you want, honourable colleagues to be put to the vote without question, because, as I understand it, everything you understand will be done. [[Calm down and listen!]] Allow everyone to comment on the bills to be considered. Otherwise, you're forcing me to put these questions to a vote without question. And it's going to be done. You don't want to do that. Five minutes of motivation. Please sign up. I ask that if you want everything to be in accordance with the Rules, let us act by the Rules. We agreed that our working group was working. I had a meeting today with the Human Rights Commissioner that tomorrow we will be discussing this issue, your honorary colleagues. I'm saying calm down again! We agreed and took a decision from the Conciliation Council, and we supported the leaders of your faction. Please! Dear colleagues, calm down! Calm down, please! On the board are the names that are included in the talk from motive. [[We know it, we're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it.]] Quiet, you're being motivated, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u9	I ask you to pass the word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u10	Please. I ask you to sit in your seats because you can't hear anything, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u11	Dear voters! What really happened? In fact, Mukachev's capture of power took place in an illegal way, and so we protest and demand a solution to this problem in a fair manner, i.e. establishing the results of the election, declaring the true electorate, and that's Baloga. That's why we can't back down from the rostrum today unless justice is established and the culprits are punished -- it's the Minister of Internal Affairs, it's Medvedczuk, it's Rizak, and many others who have stimulated this gang attack. I'm Kate. head of the Security Service and other people who have to provide these things. I reject Shufrich's accusation that there was no banditry. Banditism was! Where are the ballots? Where did the people who attacked the area beat the windows, beat the people, beat the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u12	..you knocked me out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u13	Yes, please, Kafarsky, the NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u14	Deputies! I want to express the position of the faction of the People's Democratic Party on the events that took place in Mukachev. I think the election should be handled by the Supreme Council commission. But the fact that the MPs who represent the Ukrainian people today have been beaten, and the fact that the authorities have not been able to intervene in these processes and not allow such things to happen, I think this should also be the case of the Supreme Council. What I mean is that there are elections in democracy, and if elections are to turn into permanent war, into people's opposition, what is the morals of society, which authority can be spoken of!?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u15	Alexander the Turkinov, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Litwin! Today, there are no laws that we adopt in Ukraine. Then the question to you is, "Why do the Supreme Council work when Mukachevo is, as an example, all laws are actually ignored? Human rights were ignored, national MPs were beaten first by criminals, then by mints." How much can we abuse the Constitution, the legislation? So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, until we re-establish the legislative field in Ukraine, but we should start with Mukachevo, with Sum, with Romna, we can't work in the Supreme Council because all of our work is in vain. We urge immediately to call on the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the President's Administration, the other criminals who ruled the anti-national massacre. And until the Supreme Council decides on this issue, our further work makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u17	Please, Anatoly Nastawayko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Gmir Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u19	Gmira, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u20	Thank you. As communists, we have always talked about the fact that in recent years criminal unrest has been taking place in the country. And, of course, what's going on is to be dealt with. I have the impression that Mukachevo had the most serious violations, perhaps on both sides. When it comes to a piece of the border, a piece of customs, open, cynical, commercial interests take effect. Of course we need to deal with this. If "Our Ukraine" says there are ballots, there are results, forgive me, voting records, let's let the commission consider it, and it will be recognized by the Commission. But we can't speculate on democracy. Today we have important issues on the agenda. Let's stop, tomorrow you will show these protocols, there will be falsification, and today, there will be vital laws for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u21	Artemenko, please, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Katchure Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u23	A duck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u24	Dear national MPs, our constituents! I want everyone to understand the position of "Our Ukraine." The fundamental principle of the Constitution, which is the source of authority, is violated. The people in Mukachevo made their choice. This choice is fixed by the protocol of the divisional commissions, and this choice must be protected. I mean, the territorial commission, contrary to the protocol of the district commission, announced another result of the election. That's why our position right now -- if we don't stand up for the martyrs, that means that all of our further work in Parliament is meaningless. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask that we all realize that this is not a simple question of elections only in Mukachevo. It is the protection of the fundamental principle of the Constitution and we insist on it in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have spent time performing with motives. I would like to remind you once again, dear colleagues, that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that tomorrow we would consider a matter that has just been raised. Well, calm down. We'll make a decision today, we'll consider it today. Dear colleagues, let us make a decision today, we will consider today, but not under pressure. We won't do anything under pressure. Let me tell you, you said I listened. Once again, I say, dear colleagues, I've left, a group led by Zinchenko. I'm in touch with this group. They reported on events that took place in the city council, including the ballots. I made appropriate inquiries to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which provided security. We agreed that if the group comes back, calm down, dear colleagues, we will consider this matter tomorrow and make an adequate decision. Dear colleagues, we will not be under pressure. Please, I'd like to say and ask you, Your Honor, that you did not respond to unlawful acts, too, to follow exactly what you did. Well, don't scream, please, please. Everyone, calm down, please. Well, calm down. Well, I understand everything, so calm down. The draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Thursday is announced for consideration. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please. What do you want from me, dear colleagues? Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, so will you inform? Please inform. Well, please calm down, we'll now vote the first question, then we will. Well, let's vote. Calm down, calm down, please. I can't hear you. I asked them to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u26	You know of the death of the people's deputy, Ivan Antonovich. It is suggested that the decision be taken to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Fourokov Ivan Antonovich, as a result of his death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u27	We've already honored, we have to go to meetings at the right time. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy. Registration number 5424. Please vote. [[10:48:04]] For 312 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please give me a chance to say. Wait. I'm asking the heads of the MP factions and groups to gather in the Head's office. A break of 20 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'll inform you of the decision of the Conciliation Board, and we'll continue our work. During the break, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board. Such a decision has been made. Today, after 16 hours of listening to information from the Minister of Internal Affairs, the heads of the Security Service are here, in the session hall, about the events that took place in Mukachev tonight, particularly in the Mesquikconomy. Tomorrow you will consider this issue, as it were, by means of a full program, providing information for the head of the working group, Alexander Zinchenka, authorized by human rights, the head of the Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Today, when the information is provided, it is proposed and agreed on: to give the heads of these offices within 10 minutes to provide information in a similar way to answer questions for 10 minutes each. Stop considering the matter. It's an agreed decision. I would like to be able to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine now. It's being announced. Calm down, we've had our breaks, we've agreed not to take breaks, we've spent two hours on breaks. It's being announced. Once again, I want to tell my honourable colleagues: if someone wants to solve two questions, immediately two problems, including one of them -- to block the consideration of ratification issues -- that's not going to work. Because if you block it, I'll understand it in such a way that you have no reason to discuss what you understand, I'll put it to the vote right away. And in addition, let's go back and put the draft amendments to the Constitution to make everyone happy. [[Applause]] The draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian State Border is under consideration. Yes, the reporter - Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Constantine Ivanovich Grishchenko. Please, Constantine Ivanovich, to the rostrum. No, there won't be a break anymore. I'd like to announce again-- don't bring up the recess notes. There won't be a break anymore. It'll be 14 o'clock, so do whatever you want. Please. Please, the question has begun to be considered. You have your suggestions, you argue them. You're arguing. Please, Kosto Ivanovich, very briefly. The committee's proposing this procedure, and now I'm going to tell you, three minutes to report, to answer the question to the reporter for three minutes, to co-report for three minutes, to discuss, to make a decision for five minutes. What are the objections? So that's a little bit more. Please, Kosto Ivanovich, let us consider the matter. Please, Kost Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u29	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The delimitation of the land area of the Ukrainian - Russian state border by a total length of 1971 kilometers began in 1998 and lasted more than five years. During this time, more than 40 rounds of delegation negotiations have been held, numerous consultations of different levels that have solved extremely complex issues, such as the crossing of the border between the settlements, its crossing by rail and other farm facilities, the ownership of border lands, and so forth. At the same time, consideration was given to the problems of the border population, the preservation of their family ties, and the promotion of professional activity. According to the delimitation, January 28th is two thousand. As a result of the delimitation on 28 January 2003, an agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border was signed in Kiev by the Presidents of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Along with the contract, an album of maps of the state border and its textual description were also signed, which is an integral part of the treaty. In accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council. Ukraine's draft law on ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border is in agreement with all interested central authorities of Ukraine and is in line with Ukraine's legislation. Acquisition of the treaty and its practical implementation will finally strengthen the land-based area of the Ukrainian-Russian state border and contribute to further strengthening the good neighbourly relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation The ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border is in Ukraine's national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u30	I'd like to ask you to sign up, Your Honor, for three minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u32	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u33	Please explain: Are there any issues that are not agreed upon from the Ministry's point of view in the documents that are currently being submitted for ratification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u34	No, we were filing documents that we considered to be agreed upon. And at the same time, we think we can ratify them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u35	Basil Gabrieluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Minister, would you please tell me how you view and treat the MP Corps if even the list of documents you have mentioned is not provided to the people's deputies themselves, the maps themselves and the document directly showing the line of delineation of our borders? What does that mean, ignoring, or making a mistake, or some other kind of purpose or purpose? If you are saying that this document is in Ukraine's national interest, if you believe that this position is transparent, please allow the deputies to understand, see and determine whether it is worth supporting the bill, whether it is in Ukraine's national interest or, in fact, everything is the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u37	Thank you. We brought with us our own description of the map. It's a thick enough document. In fact, on all our maps and maps, there's a line of borders that is aligned along the administrative lines of this border that existed back in the Soviet Union. I would like to point out that we did the same procedure in the same form when ratifying the Supreme Council of the Treaty of State Borders with the Republic of Belarus and with the Republic of Moldova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u38	Yes, Colony, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u39	Colony, faction of Ukraine. I would like to express the opinion of our faction that we support the ratification of this treaty, and I ask you to put it to a vote faster, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Yes, Sergey Shevchuk, NDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! Please tell me, for 10 years now, the appropriate commission has been working, and Russia has proved to be the last state of our neighbours to agree on the completion of this process. What is the reason for this delay? On what side of the blame did our party delay or perhaps another party, and why such an important law is included in a package with the EP and other documents, although it is in itself an extremely important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u42	This, I remember, when I was doing this as a deputy minister, the Russian Federation -- our negotiating partners -- didn't really accept the idea of holding a border between, as they said, not just the brotherly states, but those who were supposed to live absolutely together. The position of Ukraine from the very beginning was that the border should not interfere with the development of all-inclusive relationships, both in economic, humanitarian and cultural terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u43	Thank you, Constantine Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u44	Much effort has been made to convince our partners that conducting, delimiting the border will in no way create obstacles to the broader goal of expanding and strengthening our ties. That is why we were able to agree on this agreement that this awareness had already become shared by our partners as well as by us. It also took a long time for us to spend, reconcile, and map 1,700 miles [1,700 km] in the area. It's not that small, let's say, the distance. We think that the result of the work now allows us to complete the formalization of our border on maps, on maps, and this is extremely important for establishing Ukrainian state in all its aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u45	Thank you, Kostya Ivanovich. Time's up, please sit down. The committee’s head in foreign affairs, Stanislav Telisforovich, has the floor for the report. Stanislav Telisforovich, I invite you to the rostrum. Dear colleagues! I was asked by national deputies to include a broadcast on the street. Is there no objection? I'm giving the secretary an assignment: turn on the broadcast on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The main purpose of the treaty is to create, as just noted by the minister, the legal basis for defining the State border between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The entry into force of the treaty does not require additional material costs. The National Security and Defence Committee, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Budget Affairs considered it at their meetings and recommended it for ratification. On the basis of these documents, the Foreign Affairs Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council this draft treaty to ratify. The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u47	Thank you, Stanislav Tellisforovich. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. The committee doesn't think they should have any questions. Stanislav Telisforovich? They say you don't have to. Let's take more time to discuss. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. For those who have signed up for the discussion, please check the chart. 15 minutes to talk. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. In addition, we have two draft inadmissibility decrees. Then we'll give them the word for justification, Oleg Pullibok and others. Dear colleagues! I told you what I offered the committee. Here's a committee proposal. You weren't just in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u48	Please give me a few minutes. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You realize that all the roads to hell are paved with gossip for good purposes. Therefore, good intentions clearly give rise to the illusion that the issue of the ratification of the border between Ukraine and Russia is currently being voted on. But in this bill, the kind things that are gently involved, such as the sharing of the Kerchen Strait and the EP -- it's all being considered in a single package. And we really understand why this is happening. This is primarily done in order to dilute a barrel of tar with a single spoonful of honey. And to tell us from this rostrum that Russia didn't want for a very long time, for a very long time, Ukrainian diplomacy had to fight courageously for Ukrainian sovereign statehood. Well, these are fairy tales for the poor because the poor don't have the ability to buy a book of fairy tales, so they hear stories about the famous inventions of the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The feats here, you know, and they don't smell. This is a simple and simple, basic view of sovereignty -- a simple and very well-verified path. Scared us by Tuzlo, everyone courageously rushed to give up part of Ukraine. Yeah, let's give Tuzla back, maybe we can go with Crimea. And here we decided to give up the Kerchenne Strait — courageously giving up what was required. So I stress that everyone in this room is going to have to vote on their own. What the faction has decided is that someone was summoned to the Presidential Administration and placed in a proper position, and you have already made certain commitments, is one thing. But you will be held responsible for this personal responsibility by each of the national deputies for your decision. And prepare for what you need to reason on your position. Because I believe the holiday is that if we put another fourth point in the package now to eliminate the Ukrainian state, we would have a faction that would have voted in favour of eliminating the Ukrainian state. That is why I am convinced that the most active advocates of the ratification of the EP and the return of the Crimea and the Kerchny Strait of Russia would actually vote for the elimination of statehood. Well, come on, you yourself understand that very well, because these state-owned positions don't work here, there's a desire to see Ukraine in Russia's tender, friendly arms. That's it. And you would be supported by the flaming advocates of democracy, the Social Democratic Party and many others. [[united]] All of this is done from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u49	Leonid Chernewicki, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin. There's no Chernewsky? Then Yuri Solomatin. Let's get Yuri Carmazin ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u50	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, today we are participants in an event that one of our colleagues once and for all spoke of: the divorce process between the Russian Federation and Ukraine is about to end. And when we vote with you on the ratification of the agreement, and we set the boundaries, as they say, either on the map or on the map, here are the atlases that we've demonstrated, we're not going to put the last dot in this process. Because as in any process other than parents, as they separate from one another, they have only known, thought, children, grandchildren, relatives, common property, different other interests, as in the relations between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, there are many things left that will keep us in the fields of mutual gravity and neighbourly relations for many more decades and almost many centuries. To an extreme extent, I and the Communist faction are confident of this, and that is what they expect. But it's like something. This process is defined differently by him, hit and run in one direction or another, and even then they do not notice each other, and even the children are not allowed into who was the father or the mother. There is that position, and there is that view about this treaty. So I would like to suggest to those of my colleagues who have this point of view and that position, get back to yourself, because the vast majority of the Ukrainian people, they have their connections, their relations, their relatives, a common story with the country with which we are to ratify the treaty on the state border today. Let us not complicate these things and testify that we are truly great statesmen, patriots of Ukraine, and our vote should prove it to our people. I urge all of you, Your Honor, on behalf of and on behalf of our faction, to vote in favour of ratifying the state border agreement between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. Thank you. You're on the right track. With God!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Is there a Yuri Anatolyovich? None. Sergei Shevchuk. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u52	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! As we know from the Minister's response, the process was extremely complex, it lasted for 10 years, it was about 40 sessions of the Ukrainian-Russian Joint Commission. In the end, the treaty was signed by the presidents. And now we have an important task ahead of us: regardless of the delay in this process by the Russian Federation, to decide on its ratification. In fact, from the very beginning, from the day of the declaration of independence, Ukraine has carried out work on the approval of state borders and delimitation, demarcating the process. But there was a similar approach between partners, which was different from each other. It can be demonstrated not even in diplomatic language, but, say, in the Anthem of Ukraine, where it says, "from. to Don," - specific areas of ethnic Ukraine. As for our partner, the Russian Federation, there's another phrase: "From Moscow to the most extreme." - you can feel what a specificization is -- "to the most extreme." And the same landscapes were quite different, starting with Ural, Chukka in the East, ending with Poland, Finland, and later with Eastern Prussia, Volina and Besarabia. They were also the provinces of the Russian Empire, which, like another empire, is in decline and continues to do so. But at the moment, this is also important for the Russian Federation, because the order of borders in the East, with Japan, is practically post-war with this country on four Kuril Islands and the non-definition of its border in the West -- with the Ukrainian State -- creates a sense of geopolitical stretch that is not needed in the Russian Federation because it is winding up some chauvinistic sentiments. So delimitation and later demarcation of this Ukrainian-Russian border is extremely important. Ukraine is interested in halting the flow of immigrants from both the Russian Federation and the Russian Federation, let's say Afghanistan and Iraq stop illicit drug and arms proliferation from the East. It is also a condition for our fruitful cooperation with the countries of the European Union. The countries of the Baltica have proved. who had taken this step a lot before, and now move on. The only question is how logical it is to associate this important act with the next two, since it essentially contradicts the logic of the following two bills. So the NDP faction is proposing to vote in favour of ratifying this treaty and it's very good to think about before you press the "yes" button for two of the following projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u53	Yes, John the Rabbit, the faction of our Ukraine. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u54	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course we have to settle the border issues, and we're late for this, right, not because of our own fault, but because of the Russian Federation, which has constantly delayed the settlement of this issue, because it can't get rid of these imperial ambitions. But I have no idea how to solve this problem. I see that our authorities, they bend down, and when they sign one agreement, they create problems for another agreement, they create problems in the future. The so-called "package approach," it absolutely cannot be recognized by us, because this treaty says that the status of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait as the internal waters of the two states can be defined by the following agreements, and it is indeed defined by the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. So if in the Azov Sea today we say that there are no clear boundaries there, we know exactly that there is a state border in the Kerchny Strait for Ukraine, there is a line that is fixed by all the documents signed by the Russian Federation, which is recognized, we will speak to all parties. And we, you see, agreed to take this line off, essentially, to turn the Gulf of Kerchen into inland waters and start re-shuffling those borders. And then they're going to say, "Yeah, you see, your border line is going across Tuzla, whose island is an integral part of Ukraine, and now we're going to give it a fairway, or we're not going to do anything at all." What is the purpose of such negotiations? What is the solution? Why are we taking positions that have already been conquered by our predecessors, who have already been conquered and recorded in the documents? That's what I don't get. So I'm going against these seductive batch approaches. I understand the Russian side. Not only did the Russian side put into this package this agreement on the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait, but the agreement on the actual creation of a single economic space. And it's already confusing us with these paths, so it's making international legislation cabal that we just can't get out of it anymore. So, honourable national MPs, I would like to support the position of the previous speaker, Chevchuk: let's not play these pack negotiations or those votes. We vote on the border, and let Russia vote and testify to its desire to resolve this problem, which is a problem not only in bilateral relations but also for the whole European region, and then we will consider other bills. Today, we are being drawn into giving up Ukrainian sovereignty, and today we are being drawn to cover up this pro-Russian foolish policy. Because I understand that Russia and I need to develop relations, but on international law, on principles of equality, not principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u55	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. When we're looking at such an important question, and I think that your argument that you've been using is, "if you're being rude, national MPs, I'm going to ask you a question about supporting the changes to the Constitution," is a distortion of constitutional change. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know that Law 4105, which Alexander Alexander Moroz proposed for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u57	Please make a statement in essence. In fact, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u58	And you haven't asked any of the following questions. The reasons for the vote should have been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u59	In fact, take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u60	And now, essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u61	Don't work, actually talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u62	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm not like you who was sent by the President to the Supreme Council. And you're doing it as a messenger of the task. And I'm acting as a national MP who wasn't sent to the Jedi list anywhere. So please don't make me. And now, essentially. If we are talking about the ratification of the Agreement between the Russian Federation, we should say that the agreement signed on the border between the Russian Federation should be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This, as it were, once again establishes the territorial integrity of Ukraine, provides the opportunity for Ukraine to continue its integration with other nations in the creation of economic alliances and so forth. But we believe that the agreement is broken in connection with what the proposed Azov covenant is. on the Azov Sea. And so when we ratify the first agreement, we have to understand that the ratification of the second agreement on the Azov Sea is direct. direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and of Ukraine's territorial integrity, and therefore, taking advantage of the possibility now, I appeal to the people's deputies that the second agreement on the Azov Sea should be, as provided for by the law on international agreements, first to be a government or a President sent to the Constitutional Court, which has been concluded, and then to be sent to the Supreme Council for ratification, as provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. Otherwise, it is a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and a restriction on the territorial integrity of Ukraine, which should be implemented only through ratification and referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! We have two draft inadmissibility decrees. Oleg Tuggnibok has the floor as the author of the draft Law on the Inadmissibility of this project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I emphasize that I stand in the position of defining as soon as possible and equipping a strong, very strong Ukrainian border, even so that, across that border from Russia to Ukraine, every nuisance and filth would not penetrate, and even so that, after the presidential elections, when the patriotic forces came to power, these oligarchs and bandits who had invaded this country and who wanted to put our Ukrainian people on their knees would not be able to flee through this strong border to Russia. But I'm against the way it's all done. I'm against us ratifying documents we haven't seen. Article 2 of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian State Border signed on 28 January 2003 clearly states that the Ukrainian-Russian State Border is taking place as described in the description of the passage of the State border between Ukraine and Russia, and depicts a solid red line on the maps of the State border between Ukraine and Russia. [[first plugin]] [[second plugin]] And the documents submitted to the Supreme Council concerning the ratification of the treaty do not contain these appendices. And this is not an explanation of the minister of fundamental affairs that these are extensive documents. There is also no explanation for the absence of plugins that form an integral part of the contract. That is, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed to ratify a treaty whose main part is essentially secret. This secrecy threatens the sovereignty and national security of Ukraine, conflicts with articles 1, 2, 5, 9, 17, 18 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of our nation. In this regard, I want to point out that I have no claim and no mistrust of the experts who worked on this agreement and on the definition of the border, but I do not trust the President and his team who signed this agreement and try to drag it through the Supreme Council. I don't believe Russia, which has always treated Ukraine as a raw material and I just wanted to use it for my own purposes. Where can we guarantee that after the ratification of the treaty, the Russian Federation will not present us with such a border line that we are not counting half-Ukraine? We already had one Preyaslav - we don't need another. We know how Russia has over the centuries copied the Preslav articles. After all, what would be the border of Azov? Neither do we. Moreover, since this agreement relates to the interstate border line and the description, these issues can only be resolved by a nationwide referendum. Society, I would even like to address, perhaps those majors who represent the eastern areas of Ukraine. And you're not afraid now that you're pressing buttons that you're not counting your major districts that can go back to Russia? You're not afraid of that? In view of this, it is proposed, in accordance with the second part of article 3.5.1. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, determine the unacceptable and reject the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the agreement between the two.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, there is still a draft decision on the inadmissibility of which Karmazin is the author, but I will put it to the vote because these documents have been registered and have been considered by the committee accordingly. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, on the Ukrainian-Russian state border, No. 0119 of 20.06 2003. The author is the national deputy of Tajnibok. Registration number 0119/P. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[12:25:56]] For-48 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft Decree 7 of Ukraine, the author of the Karmazin National MP, registration number 0119/P2 on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, on the Ukrainian-Russian state border, registration number 0119. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:26:34]] For-33 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian State Border, registration number 0119. Please vote. [[12:27:07]] For 352 The law is passed. Thank you. Announcing the project. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - in 53; "Regions of Ukraine" - 62; Communist faction - 59; "Industry and Supporters" - 39; "Industry" - 38; "Industry" - 19; "Industry" - 0; "Industrial" - 18; "Deminicatives" - 16; "Agrarian Party - 15; "National Choice" - 9; "NDP - 14; non-fractional - 10. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait is under consideration. Registration number 0188. Reporter of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Constantine Grishchenko. Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski will be the narrator. That's how the rules are proposed, I'll tell you. For the report, in three minutes. The answers to the questions are up to seven minutes. For the report, three minutes. Discussion is 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Following the signing in 2003, on 28 January of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border, Ukraine focused its efforts on the signing as soon as possible of the analogous Treaty on the State Border in the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait. Following the famous events around the Ukrainian island of Kos Tuzla in the Kerchen Strait, an agreement was reached on the signing of the treaty that is being submitted to your consideration today. The main position of this treaty is the agreement that the Azov Sea is bound by the state border, and its water supply is divided into the internal waters of Ukraine as an integral part of Ukraine’s territory and the internal waters of Russia as well as an integral part of Russia’s territory. With regard to the Kerchéne Strait, the agreement establishes that settlement of matters belonging to the Kerchéne Strait’s watershed is done by agreement between the parties. There is now an active negotiating process on the alignment of the state border lines in the Azov Sea. The same is true of the Kerchen Strait. At the same time, the position of Ukraine is that in the Kerchen Strait the border line was established in Soviet times, and now it has to be simply confirmed. Ratification of the treaty will facilitate this negotiation process, and in the near future we will come up with agreements on the coordinates of the state border lines both in the Azov Sea and in the Kerchen Strait. Then the agreement is in our best interests. And in accordance with article 7, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, we take it to the ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of this Treaty will enable us to resolve those issues that are now in sharp order in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u67	Thank you, Constantine Ivanovich. Please, can I ask you a question? Please sign up. Yes, please explain. Seven minutes, please. Matvienkov, get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u68	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. The distinguished rapporteur, please say that it is a direct line across the sea, so to speak, not the Kerchen Strait, but the Azov Sea. Can you please explain more precisely what you're talking about, what you're talking about right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u69	It's in the Agreement itself, it's about setting up, it's about defining the very principle of conducting a border on the Azov Sea. He, the Treaty, does not determine how the line of the border will go. What is essential in this covenant? The fact that the Russian side at all stages of the negotiation process once stood up for the position that the Azov Sea had never shared, never had a border, not in Soviet times, not even administrative, not in any historical period. And so they insisted on identifying this sea as common without a line of demarcation. What is the fundamental importance of this covenant? For the first time in a legally binding document, the Russian side recognized that the line should be so divisive. Further to the regular negotiations now very intensively, we advocate that this line be conducted in accordance with the Convention on International Law of Norms. There are different approaches and different precedents in world practice. Today, it is important for us to have the principle of the conduct of state borders clearly confirmed on both sides. Then we can work on specific points and go back to the Supreme Council once we're done for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u70	Please, Alexandrovska, prepare Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u71	Constantine Ivanovich! Alexandroskaya, town of Harkov, faction of Communists As far as I can tell, it's really a setup. The ratification of these treaties will indeed enable us to record the existence of friendly relations between Ukraine and Russia and demonstrate to the world that we can address the complex issues of international relations. Do I rightly understand the need to conclude such a treaty?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u72	That's right. It is important for us not only to have a border, but also other provisions of this treaty that determine that we will work together on environmental protection, conservation of fish stocks, and sharing. But each one must have his own area of responsibility. After all, if the law is being broken, each state must know whose territory it was. There are jurisdictional issues, mass of others, but in itself the law is designed to create a legal base primarily for cooperation, and again primarily for the border areas of both the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u73	Yes, Artemenko. Yuri Artemenko, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u74	Give the word to Tomenku to Mikol, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u75	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u76	Dear Constantine Ivanovich! I voted in favour of the previous treaty as a representative of our Ukraine faction, and I think it's very important in terms of the sovereignty of Ukraine, but with regard to the present document is this from your statement, a number of warnings arise, you constantly appeal to terms that are "negotiations," "we have hope," "we hope." I think such documents would have to be based on a formal legal basis and apply exclusively to international law, not customary law. And so when it's written here that these problems will later be governed by individual agreements, I have a warning about what these arrangements will be and how they will be signed. How do you think that we're actually in the first stage -- we're just formalizing relationships -- and we don't know what's going to happen next?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u77	Politics, including foreign policy, consists of steps that lead to a goal. For more than 10 years, we've been doing dozens of rounds of negotiations, and we've all stayed in our positions: we're on the need to conduct a line of delimitation, the Russian Federation on the fact that there's no such line and there can't be, and the Russian Federation will never agree to that. This document, which is now being submitted for ratification, is a stage before the problem of delimiting and carrying out a specific line of borders is finally resolved. His point is that he sets out a principle of principle that is important to us. Without this principle, we simply have no basis for further negotiations. Documents in international law, which are based on treaty law, which establish certain principles and leave the possibility of a final settlement in the course of further negotiations, a very large number. In this case, it is not a precedent at all, but a mere practice. That's why this document, this treaty is in our best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u78	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u79	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Valley Electoral District 89. Mr. Secretary, well, frankly, you have some strange logic: first we let the neighbors use our territory and then you talk about the border, we'll talk to them. Don't you think that's how you put the cart in front of the horse, allowing you to use our neighbors' territory without any guarantees? progress. And does this proposal to withdraw from the President's agreement that the border should go not only at the bottom but on the surface? As a result of the withdrawal from the arrangements between the presidents of Ukraine and Russia, what such a distinction is to take place. Is it not possible to postpone and simultaneously ratify both this and the border agreement?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u80	First, article 1 of the Treaty stipulates that the Azov Sea is dividing the state border line according to the agreement between the parties. The state border line is a line that goes from the center of the globe to infinity, you could say, up. So the sea, of course, divides the bottom and the water and the surface. That's right. That's why it is. Well, that's what the Asians say. If you don't mind, I'll finish. That's the whole point of the deal, that's the point of that principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u81	Yes, thank you. Have a seat. Time's up. Mr. Stanislaw Telisforovich, please take the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait. The main objective of the treaty is to define the status of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait, the separation of the Azov Sea by the State border between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, the organization of cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation in the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. The main scientific and expert office believes that the treaty can be ratified. The European Integration Committee, which was also tasked with examining this issue, concluded that it would take a decision once it had received further information from the government. The Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided to approve the draft law and recommend it approved by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Sit down, Stanislav Tellisforovich. Let's move on to the discussion, we have 15 minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Andrew School has the floor. Prepare for Chernobyl. You will speak, Ivan Alexandrovich, personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u84	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I want to say first of all the personal and fractional attitude towards the ratification of this bill. We all have to understand that there is no distinction here. The previous bill, as part of the package agreement, discussed the conduct of the border. Here we are talking about the return of the Kerchny Strait of Russia, recognition by the inner sea of the Azov Sea. To say that there will be a border, that's more than funny, because the border is not being held as a state line of distribution. And that sounds like a treaty that's going to be ratified. Please read about the red line of the state border. And it can only be described once again that what was in the Soviet Union in common will be shared between Ukraine and Russia. And in fact, this means that Russia will be completely inseparable from the Azov Sea, which is the vote we're voting for the Kerchen Strait, from which it's going to take a very long time to sail on different ships and fly airplanes, we're going to use Russia. And when someone in this rostrum convinces you otherwise, it's more than funny. Because the foreign minister here was trying to explain that there would be a border on the Azov Sea under international rules. There is no concept of "internal sea" under international law. I realize that the foreign minister is not interested in listening to my speech. He will listen to the speeches of those who will vote for all that Banks will bring. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like you to know not to speak emptyly to the minister to listen a little. I'll tell you more. I'd like to. I know it's not interesting. Not interesting, but I'd like to hear it, because who are the national MPs? They don't solve anything, they're buttons. But at least there is a group of national MPs who will not betray their own state, the interests of the electorate. The interests of the electorate will not be betrayed, rather than push buttons just to please someone. I'm telling you. I'm telling you this in person. So I want to say that anyone who pushes a button to ratify this law will press a button against Ukraine, against the Ukrainian people and against the voters. Sharing the Azov Sea is like sharing Dnipro. Let's share Dnipro, Crimea, with Ukraine. Because the state border doesn't go in there, it goes from the stratosphere to the deepest drilling point. Please deny it to me, Mr. Minister. Isn't that where the same border on the Azov Sea is going to be? Why did you hide it in the contract? Why did you hide it? Why is it written about the distribution line? And the rest will be declared by separate documents and decrees that we have not given. I urge everyone to vote against this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u85	Leonid Chernewicki, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u86	Leonid Chernovecki, Our Ukraine, Christian Liberal Party, Darnicke electoral district of Kiev. Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! I believe that the main thing for the prosperity of Ukraine and its people is not the length of the border, but the length of the brain of those who govern the country. That's the main thing. And I'll tell you that if we lose or win an inch, it won't matter. That's the first one. Second. The state border of Ukraine is needed. In view of Putin's policy, which in principle sees Ukraine, like other countries, in the future of the USSR, I believe that if we do not vote as quickly as possible for the establishment of borders, sooner or later we will be there in arms and find ourselves. Because now we're going to argue about where we need to do it, and tomorrow we're not going to argue with anyone, because there's a problem: we're not participating in these processes. The executive power can make it impossible for the issue of borders to stand on its own. Therefore, I believe that the main thing is, of course, now that the boundaries are fixed and that the issue is not withdrawn. And the main thing is what I want to say. This is, of course, our main problem with Russia is the best investment climate vis-à-vis our neighbour. Because five years ago, I showed you how there was a flow of investment from one country to another. And no border would prevent Russian investment from operating in Ukraine. The opposite is happening today: the investment climate in Russia is better than in Ukraine, because we have a million problems. We have huge taxes, a huge army of officials that robs our country -- our pensioners and our workers, and whoever you want. We have no jobs, we have a growing number of jobs only through the budget. And if we cut taxes, if the communists support me so that you don't touch me in language, yes, my bill to eliminate the benefits, yes, including yours, Mr. Solomatin, in car parts, special. Why would you go to a special hospital? Nothing's gonna happen to you. Go where the pensioners are. And then everything's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u87	Yes, Mironenko, please, the Communist faction. I announced the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u88	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The lack of legislative consolidation of the status of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait since 1991 has led to a legal contradiction, including in the Tuzla area, in which our brotherly peoples are not interested. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine endorses the signed Treaty on the Development of Ukrainian-Russian Cooperation in the Field of Security, Navigation, Environmental Protection, Fisheries, which is capable of providing the country with food, diet products. We believe that the fish stocks of the Azov Sea, once the richest fish in the world, can only be restored together, Ukraine and Russia. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, however, focuses on the following. When a bill on the territorial sea was considered, which contained a rule establishing a State border on the Azov Sea, 12 miles from the coast, which could have been used for confrontation between Ukraine and Russia, provided for the possibility of travelling to the Azova Sea of military vessels of third countries and was totally inconsistent with the security and economic interests of the people of Ukraine and Russia, the deputies of the Communist Party of Ukraine made every effort to ensure that the above rule, not in accordance with the interests of the people of Ukraine, was not adopted. This eventually happened. We have insisted on making the Azov Sea and Kerchen Strait the status of the internal waters of Ukraine and Russia, as we have sought and sought to turn the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait into a zone of friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation among our peoples. Article 1 of the draft law on ratification of the treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, on cooperation and use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait, now under consideration, reflects this orientation, which is indeed a pleasure for each of the current patriots who loves our many-suffering plight. But. Satisfying those who use the word “patriot” and clearly provoked conflicts between the brotherly peoples, including in the Tuzla area, while looking at their American hosts, trying to use dangerously - for our peoples - to stay on the political surface and to be given US funds to work against their homeland. In view of all this, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine calls upon all deputies, genuine patriots of Ukraine to vote in favour of the bill, including for the conversion of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait into a region of broad cooperation between Ukraine and Russia, into a region of friendship among brotherly peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u89	Yeah, Carmazine's gone. Silent Paul, no. Paul Silent. From Solomon’s motives, as Paul went along with him. Please pass the word to the Rabbit, speak. Yes, Yuri Solomatin, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I will withdraw from my rule to speak from the Supreme Council's rostrum solely in national language and answer to my colleague of liberals and Christian who is so theatrically in pain at the fate of a non-Ukrainian language that he knows today, that is, in Russian. I want to say this: I'm not a gentleman, I'm a friend. That's the first one. Second. I've never had any personal belongings, and that's what my declaration shows. And I recommend it to Mr. Christian and to the liberal, and I allow myself to become acquainted with it. And third. I think it belongs to the category of rich people in Ukraine, who have more than 15 million per year and who have cars worth about one and a half million. So let's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u91	Ivan Hare, please. Well, he's giving the Rabbit his word. Five minutes, please, John the Rabbit. Paul Silent conveys his word to John the Rabbit, and John the Rabbit was to speak after the Silent One, so he has five minutes. Don't get me wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u92	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for us Ukrainians to bring Ukrainian-Russian relations into line with international law, including the state border in international coordinates. But this agreement does not determine, does not establish a border in the Azov Sea and in the Kerchny Strait. It only defines the principles of solving this problem. And I want to stop at these very approaches. The key words in this covenant are that in the Azov Sea, the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait are recognized as the internal waters of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The second key phrase is that the Azov Sea is bound by the State border line according to the agreement between the parties. Let's think about the first thesis of what this means: the internal waters of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. If we don't have a treaty ratified on the state border today, that means that all of this water is in common use both in Russian and in Ukrainian. Today, those living in Mariupola, Geneva, at other locations know how Ukrainian fish stocks are being destroyed by the Russian side. And no one will reject that. This is a fact. Each of you knows what the Russian side is doing to the beneficial mines that are essentially in our territory. It's about gas, and it's about other useful fossils. So our authority had to ask the question in a different plane: come on, guys, let's run the state border line and then we'll talk about how we're going to manage this inner water, because it's going to have a line, we're going to talk, to some extent conditionally and unconditionally. It's about beneficial fossils and air space. No, let's go the other way. Let us first talk about the use of one another, that is, in fact, the status quo - use of the Azov Sea, which is not convenient, is not in the interests of the Ukrainian State at this time. Now the second one. This is because the Kerchen Strait is just like the inland waters. We already know and I've been talking here, and you all know that the Kerchen Strait today has a fairway and that this fairway is the territory of Ukraine. You all know that the Kerchen Strait has a border between Russia and Ukraine, it may not be recognized today by the Russian side alone, it's not anchored by this international law, but this line is and this line is east of Tuzla Island. The Russian side, by moving this space through this agreement into the status of the internal water supply, wants to enter our fairway, actually control the passage of ships, actually control the economy, which in any case helps to become the Ukrainian side, the Ukrainian seafaring. That's why today the point of this problem is that the Ukrainian side is giving its strategic position that the Ukrainian side is already retreating from what's been won and I have no belief that our power is going to achieve what is being enshrined in international law on our interests. And the last. It's a matter of the state border line. Once again, this state border line can be conducted in different ways. There are, so-called, middle principle, there are other principles. We have stated our position, which is right. Russia has taken its stand. And we don't know with you how our Ukrainian side today, what principle it stands for today, how it will conduct this line of state border. None of you know that. That's what I'm up against. I don't mind settling these issues, we're late, I'm against not being under the carpet, I don't want this to be done through agreements, we'll talk, on the Mafia level, I don't want to know where the useful mines go, where the gas goes, I don't know the environmental problems that will give birth to such agreements. After all, each of you knows that the dam that Russia planted today was nowhere to be found. So it's the same breed, the argument, against the Ukrainian side, where our power, our President raised his hands today. At a time when all were criminals and environmentalists, and..
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u93	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! We have two draft decrees on the non-admissibility of this document. In order of their arrival, I give the word of Andrew Skull. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please. Andrew Schlell, get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski. There are two authors: Mikola Rudzikowski and Baraniovski. Please identify which one of you will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. For good reason, I am introducing a bill on the inadmissibility of ratifying this agreement on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation in the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait. You know, the devil is hiding in detail. Actually, this concept and the Kerchny Strait gives answers to everything else. What's this about, first of all, the Kerchen Strait? How can you relate to the regulation of matters on the Azova Sea? So we won something out there on Azov, so Russia finally admitted that there might be a border there, but for that, we're giving up the Kerchen Strait? Is this an equal exchange? Come on, are you state officials or not? The Foreign Minister here said that this bill is in our best interests. Yours may fit, but Ukrainian interests don't fit. And you understand that very well. Because it is impossible to justify future great victories by small defeats. A small defeat is as much a defeat as a great one. And that was a defeat of Ukrainian diplomacy. I don't understand. I'll tell you why there are no maps here, why when the Foreign Minister speaks here on these beautiful, expensive monitors, as we've explained, they cost a lot of money, there are no maps, there are no borders, as it seems, the logic of the bill. Because it doesn't make sense. There's no logic here. Where is Russia between Tuzla and the Kerchen Strait? How is it to be combined, how is it to be bound into a single bill? What threads can all of this be sewn together? Well, it's none of them. Therefore, I say that article 13 of the Constitution provides that the earth, its nadra, atmospheric air, water and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, the natural resources of its continental shelf of the exclusive sea economic zone, are subjects of the property rights of the Ukrainian people. You take away the property of the Ukrainian people, and without question, you want to receive a blessing from the Supreme Council, you pass these nadar to Russia, you pass the Kerchen Strait, which brings huge profits, the maximum profits for the Kerchny port of the same, for the Kerchny port sailors, you pass it on to the Crimea, you pass it on to Russia. Because what is sharing? If a Russian ship passes, it pays nothing, it only compliments the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, its economic and information security, are the most important functions of the State, the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. And without asking the Ukrainian people, you take part of the sovereign territory, you take part of the Kerchny Strait, and you pass it on to Russia in exchange for compliments on the Russian side. It's not an equal exchange. It's called treason, betrayal of national interests. I want everyone to vote consciously. Your "yes" vote is a vote for betraying national interests. So I urge you to support my bill on the non-admissibility of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u95	From the second draft of the decree, Michael Rudzkowski will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! The Constitution clearly speaks of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as a state. If we talk and look at the agreement, this agreement is a very interesting mechanism. On the one hand, according to all international treaties and norms, Ukraine has the right to conduct a border beyond the limits that have existed since 1955 between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. And the question of the status of the Kerchen Strait is not a question. for this is the territory of Ukraine, according to international law today. And you government officials know that. And if we record in this agreement that the issue of the border will be determined by a separate agreement, then by accepting and ratifying this agreement, we clearly deny Ukraine the right in the future to appeal to the International Court of Justice to defend our territorial interests with regard to the conduct of the border line if the agreement with the Russian Federation does not agree with us. And that's why I think in order not to do anything stupid, we need to stop voting today. Obligation the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Justice from the government to prepare a submission to the Constitutional Court. Make it clear that the Constitution is in line. And only after that will we consider this issue on the Supreme Council. For the time will come when the deputies will address the Constitutional Court, not even this year, five years later. And this agreement is not going to match the Constitution, and we're going to have a conflict with our strategic neighbour, our partner. In order for this not to happen, we need to make all the agreements on the line that have been signed since 1951 with the Russian Federation on the border, on the line, and then vote with the package as proposed. And in this, I think there's no doubt that we should stand up for our territorial integrity and, on the other hand, stick to the Constitution and think that we, the national MPs, are the deputies of Ukraine, the sovereign state, the whole state, not one of the neighbours who advocate foreign national interests here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We have two draft inadmissibility decrees. In accordance with their arrival, registration and consideration by the committee, I will put them to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the author of the National Deputy School, registration number 0188/p, on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. Number 0188. [[13:05:12]] For 118 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft decree, the authors of the national MPs Rudzikowski and Baraniwski, on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. Registration number 0188/P1. [[13:05:51]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait. [[May I have your attention, please?]] Registration number 0188. Please vote. [[13:06:30.]] For 274 Decision taken. By factions, please, by factions. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 61, Communist faction - 59, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs' Party - 39, SDPU - 38, SPO - 0, Timoshenko - 0, "People's Government" - 18, "Dem. Initiatives" - 17, Agrarian Party - 15, "People's Choice" - 11, NDP - 11, non-fractional - 5. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space is being announced for consideration. This is the time limit, please note: For a report of up to five minutes, answers to questions within ten minutes, three minutes for a committee report, 20 minutes and 25 minutes for a discussion, we need the authors of the draft decisions on non-admissibility to express their position. So it's more than 70 minutes. No objections? The point is that alternative projects, honourable colleagues, cannot be considered because either the President or the government are being introduced. But now I've asked the Legal Authority to give an opinion on this. For reasons, please write this down. Three minutes and procedure, more precisely. Please sign up for three minutes. On the board, please. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u98	I'd like to give Julius Volodymyr to Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u99	Please, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u100	Julia Timoshenko. Honorable Parliamentary Colleagues! Today, the Kerchny Strait was handed over by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you remember, we were almost armed to protect the island of Tuzla so as not to give up the Kerchen Strait. The MPs did it today. I want to tell the people of Ukraine that it is the centre of national betrayal that is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there is no need to complain about anyone, that is what the representatives of the people look like. And I think that whoever voted in favour of the Kerchen Strait cannot even count himself as a citizen of Ukraine. And we still need to know what our Parliament is like and what the national MPs look like and how the people are no longer wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u101	Yes, Mikola Rudzkowski, the LRA faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u102	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u103	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The four deputies of the Socialist faction of Ukraine tabled their version of the draft bill for the ratification of the EP agreement. We, according to the Constitution, as deputies, have the right to legislative initiative. Yesterday, the bill was discussed in detail at a meeting of a committee of profile. We insist that you do not restrict us to constitutional rights and allow (a) to make a statement in accordance with our bill and (b) to put to the consideration of the session of the Supreme Council. This is our constitutional right, which can't be taken by any Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u105	Warming up, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u106	Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine faction, Boris Zagreva. Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u107	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, Our Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, several alternative bills have been registered and distributed in the hall. You have no right to deprive the authors of these bills, especially since they all provide for ratification of the respective agreement. So I ask that this be included in the Rules of Procedure. Using the few seconds I have left, I would like to remind you that one of our colleagues today said that he was not, you see, "sir." He told the truth, he told the lie when he said he was a "friend." He demonstrated himself today, as did his colleagues who gave up Ukrainian sovereignty and Ukrainian territory, like the holopa of the Russian State and the Moscow President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, time is up. Dear colleagues, I have such an offer. Although the special subjects of the right to submit bills to the Supreme Council for ratification of Ukraine’s international treaties are the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, I propose. We have here four draft ratification laws: that their authors have the opportunity to report their proposals for three minutes, then we will vote all of this to eliminate any inadequacies and opposition in Parliament. Is there no objection? Then let's get down to business. First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janović, has the floor for the report. Please, Mikola Janovich. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill on ratification of the Single Economic Space Agreement is proposed for your consideration. The ratification agreement was signed on September 19th last year in Yalta by the heads of State participating in the Single Economic Space. The question raised today has been repeatedly discussed at high levels, including in this room. The main goal is to increase the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy, because Ukraine's economy is open in nature, and more than half of GDP is being realized in the external market. This dictates the need to find ways and mechanisms to improve international trade conditions for domestic producers. By deepening mutually beneficial economic co-operation with our immediate neighbours in the external trade sphere, energy transport and the effective and safe functioning of transcontinental transport corridors and other directions for Ukraine is strategically important. First. The task in the context of the creation of the Single Economic Space is to create a full-scale free trade zone without exemptions and restrictions. This trend in Ukraine is seen as a priority in the formation and operation of the Single Economic Space. The creation of such a zone will allow the untapped potential of economic cooperation to be activated today. First. The task of creating a single economic space is to create conditions that would ensure a high level of regional economic integration and that they do not at the same time conflict with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, its strategic course for European and Euro-Atlantic integration and the entry into WTO under conditions that meet our national interests. The concept of a single economic space is based on the principles of taking into account the interests of each participant and the diversity and diversity of integration. The sole purpose of the economic space is to expand economic freedom and practical trading opportunities for citizens and participating countries, which in general corresponds to the ideology that has been established in its own time in the creation of the European Union. All agreements within the Single Economic Space meet the standards of the world trading organization. Moreover, effective integration of the 4 countries will give new impetus to development, deepening their equal and mutually beneficial dialogue with the EU. First. Ukraine's membership in a single economic space is in Ukraine's national interest. It can neither politically nor economically compromise its national sovereignty, both in the short term nor in the long term. The other one. The signing of the agreement will allow Ukrainian companies to move their products more actively to the growing market in Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus by eliminating many customs and tax barriers, discriminatory prices, and tariffs. Third. New markets will create conditions to increase production, increase jobs, increase turnover, modernise production, and introduce money. I would like to take a closer look at the economic prospects of Ukraine’s participation in the EP. First. Ukraine's introduction to the EP will further contribute to the formation and consolidation of positive developments in Ukraine's economy in recent years, primarily through the further liberalisation of external trade. In particular, the planned harmonization of energy prices as well as transport tariffs will significantly reduce the production costs of Ukrainian companies, which will increase the competitiveness of Ukrainian goods in external markets. It's different. The country’s participation in the EP will allow increased exports of Ukrainian products to the markets of countries that have joined the single economic space and lead to reduced costs for anti-dumping investigations, quota cuts, and tariff barriers for exports of Ukrainian products. Third. Ukraine has an introduction to the EP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u111	How much longer do you need? One minute, please. Turn on the microphone. Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u112	Third. Ukraine's introduction to the EP should lead to the elimination of customs tariffs and the abolition of export VAT by participating countries on energy imports. At last, integration into a single economic space can have a positive effect on the increase in production. First of all, this should give a significant advantage to enterprises oriented towards external markets. First of all, metallurgy and metalworking, chemical and petroleum industries, which will be associated with increased demand for industries. Only the direct economic win of Ukraine, which we plan to win next year, will be up to $1 billion a year. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the First Deputy Prime Minister question. Please point it out on the board. Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction, your question, please. Turkey's next one will ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u114	Dear reporter, you know there is one positive moment in Ukrainian politics that some initiatives have their own author from time to time. And you were the author, let's say, of Law 4001, which was later repealed by the President. You're linked to the authorship of proposals for VAT accounts, and your last name is linked to all of the developments relating to the single economic space. The previous two attempts failed. Tell me, please, those calculations, those billions of dollars that you're talking about are really well calculated. Is this simply a decoy for the deputies to vote in half for what you're proposing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. I believe that the economic achievements of the Ukrainian government, where I am to be a member.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u117	I'm so glad I got you a fun minute. I had just returned from London at night, where I presented Ukraine at the annual meeting of the European Bank. And I want to be happy for Ukraine. There were so many people at Ukraine's presentation that there were too many places in the hall and everyone applauded Ukraine's economic achievements. All the calculations, Mr. Shevchuk, were made and applied to these materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u118	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u119	I have another question. Even Kuchma, whose patriotism is known to all the Ukrainian people, signed this treaty with objections or warnings. So the first question is, are there any objections that have been expressed both in Parliament and outside it in the way that you now want to push through the Supreme Council? And the second question. You were talking about big economic prospects. Please tell me if there are economic prospects that are worth betraying national interests, losing national sovereignty. I understand that silver pieces, silver pieces, are of interest to some. How much is our independence worth? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u120	I find the answer to this question to be pointless and pointless.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u121	Malinoski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u123	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u124	Dear Mikola Janovich. When the draft treaty was presented, you were asking questions from our faction about what a free trade area would be without restrictions and exclusions. That's not what we're supposed to be in that document today. How, then, can this situation be evaluated? Don't you think it's necessary to vote in favour of ratification, to anticipate the essence of it, a free trade area without restrictions and exclusions, a governing body of the State working on the principle of consensus and other details that have been made in our draft treaty, a more faithful ratification of this treaty, the Ratification Act. How would you look at that, because I don't think we can take any risks today going beyond the Constitution, that would be very dangerous, but the President has sent himself to the need to respect the Constitution in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u125	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I will quote and remind you of the article of the second covenant. "The step-by-step solution to the challenges of deepening integration is due to the commitment made by the parties and the actual performance of such tasks. The establishment of a free trade zone without exclusions and restrictions, which provides for its application in the mutual trade of anti-dumping compensatory and special protective measures based on a single policy on tariff and non-tariff regulation of single rights and competition. " And this is the first stage in the implementation of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u126	Bronnikov, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u127	Nikolai Janovich! Nikolai Janović, I have such a question about primary natural resources. Will our primary natural resource pricing system be envisaged, whether it's gas, whether it's oil, whether it's our zirconium, whether it's our uranium or whether it's the world's price system, or whether it's the world's price system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u128	Thank you. I will answer the question that is the subject of speculation. How will Ukraine's participation in a single economic area be economically effective? First of all, it will be achieved through the lifting of VAT exports to Ukraine for energy. That's one thing. The other is the cancellation of duties. Energy prices must, of course, be determined in the future by the world price situation. I reiterate, in the future. And in a single economic space, they must be united. There should be no Ukrainian prices and Russian energy prices. We agreed on that with our Russian, Ukrainian colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u129	Yes, thank you, Mikola Janovich. Time's up. Please have a seat. Stanislaw Telisforovich Staszewski, head of the committee. Please inform the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meetings on 13 and 19 April considered Bill 0183, as well as Bill 0183-2 and 0183-3. [[author - People's MP Kirilenko]] [[author - People's Deputy School]] Why did I focus? Because all the bills that came forward and the papers at the meeting yesterday were considered by the committee. The two bills -- School and Kirilenko -- are about unacceptableness, they are. And 0183 is the essence that was reported by the very important First Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Ukraine. They say, "What about the others?" The other state of affairs for yesterday, for 16 hours, did not go to the committee. Everyone else today, here they were handed out for registration. The committee, considering two days, was open to all who wanted to express their views. I would like to identify an active position, a role in the consideration of the people’s deputies, Lucenko, Rudzikowski, who took part in the meeting and made constructive suggestions. We also took into account those suggestions that came from other committees. Thus, the Committee on Economic Affairs supported the bill in its entirety. The Committee on European Integration, by the way, Boris Ivanovich also took part in one of the meeting days, failed to determine his conclusions. In view of all the suggestions made, although written, though verbal, and what was said on the committee, the committee decided to accept the warnings. A warning of this content: Ukraine will take the form and functioning of a single economic space within the limits that do not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukraine's legislation in accordance with the principles of sovereignty and sovereignty, the principles of establishing a free trade zone without exclusions and restrictions, Ukraine's strategic course on European integration, Ukraine's task of self-introduction into the World Trade Organization and Ukraine's international obligations, as well as the fact that Ukraine's only economic space forms by.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u131	Do you need to finish? One minute, please, to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u132	Yeah, you're literally half a minute out. Ukraine retains the right to suspend any decision of the sole governing body of the Single Economic Area, which is contrary to its national interests, and in accordance with article 4, paragraph seven, four mentions the agreement to refer it to Heads of State in which decisions under article 4, paragraph 4, of this Agreement are taken by consensus. A group was also formed to prepare these documents, which included the national deputy Oliynik, the national deputy Kuras, and the national deputy of Bichkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u133	Sit down, Stanislav Telisforovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We agreed: 20 minutes for discussion. Please. Dear colleagues, please, on the table is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the talks from the rostrum. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. Oh, out of the way. Andrew Schlell passes the right to address Julia Timoshenko. Please. Come on, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I would now like to draw special attention to the issue of the ratification of the Single Economic Space. And I want to start by saying that it has nothing to do with the economy. And today we're talking about all of us in this Parliament giving up the last barricade: the sovereignty of Ukraine. The point is that in the Single Economic Space, there will be a national body where Ukraine will have, not equal voting rights, but an estimated eight to ten percent when making a decision. This means that Ukraine will not have any influence by handing over power to the national authority at all. All the issues are economic, and as a result, political in Ukraine will be decided by the Russian Federation, which will have more than 80 percent when final decisions are made. I want to ask this whole Parliament. Who gave you the right to take away our Ukrainian sovereignty from the people of Ukraine? Who gave you such a right that you're now like monkeys going to push this button? Even the President of Ukraine has warned that in no case will we ratify unless this national body, where Ukraine will not have consensus, is abolished. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that in the Russian Federation, in the Parliament of the Russian Federation, such a vote would be impossible, just like the vote on the Kerchen Strait. Imagine Duma gathered in the Russian Federation and unanimously voted 300 for the surrender of the Kuril Islands of Japan. What would the Russian people then do with the Russian Duma?Oh, my God! They would have blown the last stone. And I can tell you. And I can tell you that today's EP vote is casting, the Russian Federation's tender for which of the politicians to support the presidential election. And it has nothing to do with democracy and justice and cooperation, and those Ukrainian citizens who are concerned about cooperation with the Russian Federation need to be noted that it is no longer socialism or communism, but it is ruled by their clans, which now characterize Russia. So, our clans aren't enough? Are we going to surrender to the Russian clans under the patronage? So in no case will we vote for the only economic space, because even our oligarchs will stand and have a window in the Kremlin wall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u135	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u136	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! There is now a very large number of people coming before Parliament with slogans against the EP, and that the EP is the loss of Ukraine's independence. Many letters also bear this out. That's why I'm not talking to Mikola Janovich Azarov. Mikolo Janovich, I understand that you are now acting in behalf of another state, and this action to qualify, you know, the Criminal Code. This is an act of damage to Ukraine’s public interests. I understand that some ministers who built houses under Moscow, for some guarantors, just don't know what, it's also convenient. For the Ukrainian people, I agree with Julia Timoshenko, what is proposed is contrary to the Constitution specifically. So, as the venerable communists say, it's quite specific. Why would that be specific? Because Ukraine’s sovereignty under the Constitution extends to all its territories. And you're proposing to delegate power to the governing body with all the issues of balanced voting, the number of votes on each side is determined by taking into account its economic potential. [[Article 4 Part 6 of the Agreement]] This is, for example, if today Mr. Medvedczuk and Surkis control 2 billion, they have 300 votes, if I have a salary, I have one vote. That'll be right there in the EP, in the EP Treaty. Now look. Ukraine will not have the right to refuse to implement the decisions of the single regulator, even if its representatives vote against them. In this commission, each state will have only the percentages that are proportional to its economic potential, but therefore the potential that we now have, and we will not be able to develop the development that is now going on, the undeniable development that must be in Ukraine. In this way, I believe that Ukraine will be deprived of the right to do and to warn about the content of international agreements aimed at shaping the EP, thus violating the principle of Ukraine's sovereignty. By the way, to the committee and to the Head of the Supreme Council, this bill was handed over to the deputies on April 13. You had to give 14 days of the Rules to prepare it completely. He was to be considered only in May. I urge all who call themselves Ukrainians not to ratify.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u137	Yes, Mironenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u138	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, those who call for the return of money, should probably do the following: return the money to the people, the people robbed, return the Lazarenko and Company clan, the Energy Company, and so on. Respected compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine insists on the adoption of a bill establishing a single economic space for Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. In its consideration of the matter in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, part of the people's deputies took the following position: not to support the Committee's proposal, but to support the President's only warning not to lose the agreement. Dear compatriots, please also bear in mind that the predominant pro-American, capitalist policies, which have been responsible for the breakdown of economic ties, the disastrous decline in Ukraine's economy, the decline in the standard of living of the majority of the population of Ukraine four times in the terrible unemployment that they have just mentioned, and they themselves are guilty. These gentlemen, by means of numerous reservations, have sought to ensure that the CIS is repetitive as a means of divorce rather than unification. They hide that in the European Commission and the Council of Ministers of the European Union, I stress that the European Union is represented by a variety of votes. They oppose the establishment of a single customs space, the elimination of the customs borders between the brotherly countries against the real restoration of economic ties with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, although this condemns Ukraine to self-isolation that is destructive to Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, who go to direct deception of the people, say that the establishment of the EEP prevents Ukraine from entering the European Union. Although the leaders of the European Union have made it clear to us that there is no obstacle that Ukraine is not seriously included in the European Union in the next decade. Perhaps Ukraine will never be adopted in the EU because of the low standard of living of the population. So why lie to the people. It's hard even to talk about it, openly, shamelessly to get money from American funds that are not interested in bringing our brotherly economies closer together, they say that it's not necessary for a regulatory body to be surfing. Although they know that nowhere in the world does an integration association work without a regulatory body. It is well known that the agreement of the Western European States of 1951, 1957 and others implies a supranational body. This is not contrary to the Constitution. Respectable compatriots, the Ukrainian Communist faction calls for the bill to be voted in favour of restoring Ukraine's economic ties and economic recovery.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u139	Yes. Silence, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Vladimir Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u140	Paul Movchan, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I will not talk about the fifth column that willingly joins those who do not understand, and they do so consistently. The fifth column has been doing its black work for 14 years in the Supreme Council. It's an open anti-Ukrainian force. But what do you do, what do you do, the 216 votes you give? Don't you realize where you're going? I want to remind you. First point. The content of the agreement on the formation of the EP and the concept of the EPP contradicts the fundamental norms of the Constitution of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. In particular, her article number one, article five, article 75, article 85, paragraph five, article 106, paragraph 31, and article 113. This agreement is contrary to the numerous normative acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and received universal support. In particular, such as the Supreme Council’s ruling on the main directions of Ukraine’s foreign policy since July 2, 1993, a statement by the Supreme Council in connection with the Agreement on the Commonwealth of Independent States and December 22, 1991, a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on recommendations for parliamentary hearings on the implementation of State policy of January 17, 2002. The content and purpose of these documents are contrary to a series of acts and directives of the President of Ukraine, in particular the Presidential decree of 11 June 1998 on Ukraine's Integration Strategy to the EU and the President's letter to the Supreme Council on "European Choice", the Conceptual Basis for Social and Economic Development by 2011. You listen to me, the so-called majority, you're going to cut into what the President drew, and he's relying on you. The agreement on the formation of the EP provides for a separate full-scale integration mechanism and the establishment of appropriate national institutions in part of the territory of the former Soviet Union. Therefore, the signing and implementation by Ukraine of the EC Treaty, which is part of the concept of the formation of the EP, will make it impossible to implement Ukraine's strategic course of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. And the last. I would like to speak to the respectable patriot of Ukraine, Mironka, who has not studied any Ukrainian words, in Moscow, not even in Moscow: where are you going? To Abramovich? There's no Union! You're going to Abramovich! Go! Go!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u141	Mironenko, the line. Please don't call the last name, and don't call the factions. Speak abstractly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We have now been insulted, but everyone knows that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has advocated and advocated friendship among the brotherly peoples. We were and we'll be together! And those working for the United States of America are not interested in restoring that unity. They are now actively in favour of disrupting the ratification of the agreement. But you are a terrible harm to the people. The regulator's attitude is once again a lie. So notice, I was just saying: Europe, the European Union, just make an agreement with the supranational authorities. And only ratification was. Conventional ratification, without any constitutional amendments. Why are you deceiving the people again? Where do you think you're going? Do you want to trample on the ground to keep Ukraine suffering? No, we Communists can't let that happen. And many centrists also adhere to these views.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u143	Yes, Vladimir Leschenko, the Communist faction. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u144	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Deputy Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia ZUBR. Here, some of the previous speakers claimed that even today they were willing to close borders with Russia so that the oligarchs would not escape. So I want to point out that it's in these political powers that there's half of these oligarchs. That's what they're afraid of and ratifying these agreements with Russia and the only economic space, because that's going to be transparency. And the creation of the only economic space in Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, and Kazakhstan is an objective necessity. After almost a 13-year period of separation, alienation, disunity, or opposition, almost all of our peoples, the leadership of nations, the progressive political forces have come to the only right conclusion: we need to unite. Has not the gap between tens of thousands of factories, factories, suppliers of raw materials, energy supplies, customers of products become the main cause of the decline in our country’s economy? Unless the border with customs barriers has become a barrier to interstate trade, unless it's an orientation somewhere in the West or the East, so that just to the side of its neighbours, it ends with nothing, since new friends want to see only a satellite in the person of Ukraine. Of course, on equal terms of mutual convenience, without any one - sided benefit, all countries of the world need to cooperate, but first and foremost, they need to establish the closest economic or political ties to their neighbors. It will only be for the benefit of our peoples. With Belarus and Russia, we have common roots -- all of them from Kiev, there's a lot of Ukrainians and Russians in Kazakhstan. But to whom, if not brothers, should we unite, work together, bring about a system of things in the national land of our nations? With the implementation of the EP, we have the hope of restoring the full capacity of many factories, factories, and other enterprises that have been used to produce products that have come together from all of this economic space. Ukraine will once again have a wide market for its products, and these are new jobs, wages, budget filling. Above all, the only economic space will unite the souls of our fellow citizens, for the unification is the overwhelming majority of our peoples. So I call on all the people's deputies, let's vote without further conditions and restrictions for the ratification of the agreement between Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine, thereby making a significant contribution to the building of a prosperous Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u145	Sergey Shevchuk, the NDP faction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On September 17, last year, the Supreme Council expressed its opinion on the EP statement. I recall that it stated that the Ukrainian Parliament had undertaken to support such documents on the formation of the EP that corresponded to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws and international treaties. The Cabinet of Ministers today submits a bill that does not conform to the Basic Law of our State, although it contains an ominous warning. The point of this warning is this: if we were to send our troops to Iraq with a warning that there should be no shooting; because there is one, we are not to blame. I would like to remind you that according to article 92 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the foreign policy of our country is implemented exclusively by the Law on the Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy. And in the article of the first EP Agreement, I quote to you and to the radio audience that, "The only foreign exchange, monetary and financial policy among the countries of the European Union is being implemented." As far as free trade is concerned, you know, it's just a decoy, because Russia's basic energy tariffs weren't going to change and it wasn't going to change. This was repeatedly discussed by the leaders of that country, as did the ambassador of that country in Ukraine. Instead, some 100 well - known quadrilateral agreements are scheduled. And this robot is projected to spend two million dollars in the U.S.: in brotherly terms, 500 million dollars. I'm not going to say, do we have this amount, in our budget -- $500,000, sorry, U.S. dollars -- I'm just going to say that this brotherly principle is completely forgotten about the other question: how will a decision be taken by a single executive regulator? Ukraine will then not be a brother, but ten percent, according to its economic contribution, will contribute to the solution of any issue. In fact, Russia will have the absolute right to make any decision, even without consulting its partners. Once Russian President Boris Yeltsin advised his fellow Russian officials: "As soon as you wake up, think about Ukraine." A Russian may wake up in a sober state, or in a sleazy state, but the project is thought out on a sober head. It's a distant cold-blooded calculation, a calculation for Russia. A metropolis. International political treaties and laws are not liberal. Like the laws of biology, they are quite strict. A three - color spider never kills its victim immediately, boils it, paralyzes it, and then drinks for a long time the juices of a victim who has not yet died.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! In spite of all the harshness of the matter, I would like to ask respectable colleagues to adhere to basic ethics and not to blame the entire population for any negative actions and trends there. Last performing Bondarchuk, please. Prepare Viacheslav Kirilenka with the basis of the decision on inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u148	Bondarchuk, Communist faction. Honourable Presidents and Peoples' Deputies of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u149	So, take it off the rostrum, respectable? What are you offering me?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u150	The problem that we are looking at today is indeed very important. Opponents of the EP argue their position with exactly two arguments. First. The EEP is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine. The second is contrary to the Constitution. Start with the national interests of Ukraine. These are actually the interests of the people. What is the interest of the people today? These are jobs and wages that we don't have today. Reasons. Socialism has been destroyed, economic ties have been broken, and today bourgeois Ukraine, with its damaged economy, has been plunged into the world capitalist system. And this system -- the world's capitalist -- is a very aggressive, scary environment. That's where I'm putting it. It's like the jungle. The weak one gets weaker and becomes a food for the strong. Such a system in the world capitalist system is provided by the WTO, the World Trade Organization, which allows for the entry into the markets of weak countries by powerful transnational corporations, which completely cleanses all scientific production. But it's also not possible to enter WTO because even with our metal we can't get in there, the anti-dumping processes are starting. There seems to be no way out, and it is today that the solution is to enter a single economic space. What does it give us? It gives us jobs and gives us a product that is profitable to trade, which has a fairly added value, i.e. wages. In fact, what is a single economic space? First. This is 91 per cent of the territory of the former Soviet Union, which is 6.3 times more than the territory of the countries of the European Union, which is 15 per cent of the oil reserves surveyed, 35 per cent of the gas. But most importantly, by uniting in this vast territory, this greatest potential, we will be able to remove all obstacles to the movement of goods, services, labour, capital in this vast territory. Yes, customs will be affected here, they won't have to be wasted, but we will open up opportunities for the development of our production. In addition, we will protect this one area by customs barriers, and we will be able to implement a concerted protectionist policy against the aggressive aspirations of transnational corporations that now dominate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We continue our work, we need to complete our consideration of the matter so that we do not interrupt. I'm asking for your attention! Now we're going to be looking at draft inadmissibility clauses on the rejection of the draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is how I propose to do it. After the author's reasoning, we're going to put them right to the vote and we're going to move. Since Viacheslav Kirilenko was about to perform, he was gone. There's a draft decision he's made about unacceptableness, there's an appropriate conclusion of a committee that suggests rejecting this project, but I'm going to put it to a vote anyway. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 0183/p on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Single Economic Space Agreement, number 0183. [[author Viacheslav Kirilenko]] [[13:56:15]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The author of the draft regulation No. 0183/p-1, Andrew School, please. Andrew Schlell. John the Rabbit will be next. Please, Your Honor, calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u152	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to point out that we shouldn't even be here discussing whether to accept or not to accept this bill. It is necessary to say who goes to the company of traitors of Ukraine and who remains neutral, at least before that. One faction had already made their choice, and there were performances. I wanted to say that it was funny to hear from the representative of the Communist faction of the link to the European Union, because he made it clear. In what way, I would like to know where and what made it clear that he was very much behind the unification of the four fraternal nations. Because it's here. You forget the Kazakh brothers. As Communist Orthodox, you should know that to maintain brotherly relations with Muslim Kazakhs. Don't forget that. And looking at you, I see you're very much in favour. So let us be free of the question of brotherhood and so forth. When it comes to giving up territories when it comes to the property of the Ukrainian economy, it is unnecessary to talk about brotherhood. When you talk about what you need to be set up. Customs barriers and Ukrainian goods will flow into the Russian sea and will be hugely sold there, and energy prices will remain stable because of the monopoly of the state. State-owned oil companies in Russia are long gone, they're all private for a long time. And all of these EPIs or Joppas, they don't touch private capital in Russia, and the price of Russian goods will always be three times lower than the price of Ukrainian goods. And what will be the competition between Ukrainian goods in Russia and Russian goods in Ukraine? It's not even about the competition here. And you are not comforted by the illusion that someone will understand that you voted not for the betrayal of Ukraine but for the ephemeral Ukrainian interests. And on the forget here, you talk a lot about the West, you see how much your native Russian embassy is represented here: three men are carefully following your every move. Put the pieces on, everything will be fine, you pay attention, you choose. There's another faction here -- "Ukraine," which is a soul and body for the elimination of Ukrainian statehood. So I feel sorry for you in this situation. And I want to emphasize before the data. See, another legal aspect, here we end up with a policy, a legal aspect: Ukraine adopted in 1993 in this Hall, the Supreme Council, a bill on the ratification of international agreements, which states clearly and unequivocally that international agreements are to be ratified by a third of the registered deputies in the hall. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to address this norm, and let a third of those registered in the Hall vote in favour of ratifying the destruction of Ukrainian statehood, the elimination of Ukraine as an economically independent phenomenon, the creation of a single economic, sole financial space with Russia and a free-loving Kazakhstan and Belarus. Well, I'm going to say again, you shouldn't talk about Belarus: democracy, which is developed in this country, is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, author Andry Schlell, registration number 0183/P1 on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space, number 0183. [[14:00:14]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In view of the fact that Andrew School had violated the subject of the need for ratification of treaties, it was this agreement that two thirds of the votes were in line with the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, which was adopted on December 22, 1993. So I'm informing you, fellow honourable colleagues, that this law was in force before the Constitution was adopted, and today it is in a part where it does not conflict with the Constitution. And according to the Constitution of Ukraine, article 91, according to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts laws, regulations and other acts by a majority of its constitutional composition, except in the cases provided for in this Constitution. The Constitution does not provide for ratification in two thirds of the vote. I'm telling you to be clear here and we don't have different links. Please, the project introduced by John the Rabbit has a word to justify its position. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u154	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. I have a draft ruling in which I propose to reject this agreement and to appeal to the Attorney General's Office to file a criminal case against Azarov, who exceeded his authority in the preparation of the treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, the ECP Agreement is a geopolitical project to destroy Ukrainian statehood that is being implemented by the oligarchic clans and communists of Ukraine. I'm addressing the national MPs, be patriots and don't vote for this deal. There is no price to pay for independence for Ukrainian statehood. My first warning to this agreement. This agreement is a political project, not an economic project. You will not find any legitimate arguments on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers that would indicate Ukraine's convenience of this agreement. On the contrary, you will find a thousand confirmations where our economy will be exposed and destroyed by our competitors. My second warning. The treaty is contrary to the Constitution. Sovereignty is passed on to national authorities. The ministers' warnings before signing the agreement are not taken into account. I would now suggest to both the Cabinet of Ministers, and to the President, give it to the Constitutional Court, and let them take this deal and consider it. No, it's not. And I now propose to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who gave such warnings before signing, to resign, if they are patriots and not Mafia officials. Third warning. This does not suit national interests. If this agreement is made, the economic space will be scattered, and Donbas and the southern sectors, the metal-producing industries, will first be affected. Is it not clear what is going on? Because it's going to be a completely different competitive environment. Fourth of my warning. The agreement was prepared and signed under conditions of unprecedented lie about its content and purpose. Who doesn't remember Mr. Azarov's statement here that signing this agreement will lead to us getting, buying energy from Russia at prices like in Russia, as Belarus does. Mr. Azarov, I was in Belarus on the Passover, and I can tell you that the price of 95 gasoline is twice the price of gasoline that we have in Ukraine. That's the price of your words and what a lie. That's why it's a lie. And the treaty, which is signed in a false way, is not valid, according to the convention ratified by our Ukraine. The other one. Janukovic spoke both in the Cabinet of Ministers and the President about what we will correct because of warnings from the Supreme Council these mistakes. Where's the Prime Minister's warning today, where's the President's warning? They lied again. Although all the warnings that Mr. Staszewski has spoken about would have to be made, it would have been necessary to save Ukraine. So, national MPs, be patriots, not sneakers, and do not save the fate of individuals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote. Calm down. I'll be out of the procedure. Calm down. The vote shall be preceded by a vote. I want to tell Boris Bespalloma again: before the vote, it's not the procedure, it's the motive. That's what the motive is, you want out of the procedure. Wait! I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 0183/P2, author of National Deputy John the Rabbit, rejecting the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. [[14:05:18]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Asadchev from the procedure. Prepare Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to tell you that you are not the Constitutional Court. So you have no right to say what is constitutional in law and what is unconstitutional. Until it is recognized by the court that this norm is unconstitutional, it works, and we are obliged to do so. That's the first one. And the second. As far as the Constitution is concerned, all things must be said, including article nine, where it is clearly stated that the conclusion of international treaties that conflict with the Constitution is possible only after appropriate changes have been made to the Constitution. The very fact that it is contrary is confirmed by the President’s warnings. So we also need to make changes to the Constitution, which requires not only 300 votes, but also a referendum. By the way, these referendums were held in all the countries of Europe that joined the European Union. And only then do we have the right to talk about ratifying such an agreement. So I think today is the day that we need to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u157	My fellow Members, if I have read the entire Constitution, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of chapter 15 of the "Transitional Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine" it is stated: "The laws and other normative acts adopted for the validity of this Constitution are valid in a part which is not contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine." Yes, please, draft decision on. Postponing the consideration of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Establishment of a Single Economic Space. Number 0183. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, head of the committee, please. Prepare for the next speech of the Boiler. You said it, and I said it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u158	Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! What is happening today at the Supreme Council Hall reminds me of the Transcease Council. Those who would advocate for the protection of the interests of the Ukrainian State are preparing for treachery. Those who voted and supported the Agreement on the Sharing of the Sea of Azova and the Kerchny Strait were betrayed. The same will be done by those who vote in favour of the Single Economic Space Agreement. Since the Committee on European Integration was mentioned here, I would like to say that the Committee on European Integration has a position. This position is that the EP Treaty is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine; it is contrary to Ukraine’s international obligations; it is contrary to Ukraine’s laws; and the President’s declared course on European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Conclusion of the European Integration Committee: This agreement is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine. Despite the Supreme Council's position, the President signed a warning treaty on the creation of the EP within the framework, as he said the Constitution of Ukraine met. Who's going to define these boundaries? We have, in accordance with the Constitution, the only body -- the Constitutional Court -- that has the right to determine whether or not to comply with the Constitution. In this regard, we have made a draft decision to postpone the consideration of this draft law in view of the fact that we do not have a decision of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of this provision. Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, a part of the Ukrainian people gathered before the Supreme Council. This part represents conscious Ukrainian citizens who have come to protest against the betrayal of Ukrainian national interests. Ukraine’s national movement believes that signing this agreement is a betrayal of national interests. In this regard, our activists, along with their partners, launched an action to collect signatures. Part of these signatures are right here in front of the Supreme Council stands, and we ask you to pass on these signatures, which are generally collected by more than 300,000, the President of Ukraine. When we speak against the EP, we stand for an equal and mutually beneficial relationship with the Russian Federation, not against it. The EP is a threat to Ukrainian independence, and for the first time, Ukraine has been threatened with economic independence. The Communists are ready to sell.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u159	Yes, thank you. All right, take it easy on the lines. We won't be able to look at anything. Thank you. All right, time's up. May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote a draft decree on the predictability and postpone consideration of the draft law on the ratification of the Single Economic Space Agreement. [[author is national MP Tarasyuk and others, registration number 0183-p3]] [[No. 0183]] [[14:11:05]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Roman Zvaric, please. Motivation of draft regulation 0183-p4. Please. I beg you, dear fellows, do not disturb. Please, calm down. Don't disturb each other. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to listen. The President signed this treaty with warnings that correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. We have the only body of constitutional jurisdiction -- the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This single body of constitutional jurisdiction does not have the authority to initiate the implementation of constitutional matters on its own. Instead, the subjects of constitutional application are defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, but the Constitution of Ukraine also makes exceptions, that is, restricts the right to constitutional submission on specific issues. Article 152 of the Constitution clearly states that the only subjects of constitutional application for the constitutionality of international treaties that have already become effective or that are brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine are the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been removed from the list of possible subjects for such constitutional application. Instead, the President, by signing a treaty with such warnings as you are aware of, did not avail himself of his constitutional powers and did not submit to the Constitutional Court an appropriate constitutional application so that the only legislative body would be aware of the provisions of the international treaty that he was offered for ratification, were in conformity with the Constitution. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is also empowered by the Constitution of Ukraine to do so, has also failed to avail itself of its constitutional powers. So this is how we actually have a legal colossal. I'm proposing that the Colosseum actually decide in a way that's given me a draft decision. That we should still treat this agreement as one under which Ukraine enters into an interstate union. According to the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, in particular, part two of the second paragraph of Article 7 of this Act requires 2/3 votes. So, taking into account all the legal points and nuances that I have just presented, it is suggested that we actually vote on this international treaty in accordance with.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u161	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Decree, registration number 0183P4, Supreme Council regulation on the procedure for the review of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. The bill was drafted by the National MP Zvarić, Zvarić and Tarasyuk. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:15:18]] For 111 The decision is not taken. His project is represented by the national deputy of Tajnibok, please. Dear colleagues, now. Dear colleagues, here insists on a break, let's consult. The point is that we are in the process of dealing with the issue and not just in the process of dealing with the issue, but in the process of voting. I'm asking the session room to identify itself. I propose to work without interruption until the issue is resolved. Who's in favour, please vote. [[14:16:07]] For 282 We're continuing our morning session. Please, Dragnibok. Bill on the non-admissibility of draft Law 0183/P5. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u162	Oleg Tajnibok All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Our Ukraine. Today in the Supreme Council there is a betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests. During the 12 years of the Ukrainian Parliament, this is the most disgraceful day in our history. And you are part of this day. I want you to understand very well, to go into history, whether it was royal Russia, or Bolshevik Russia, or now democratic Russia, it always wanted to destroy and oppress Ukraine. And today you become an argument, and today you become traitors to Ukrainian national interests. This is not a free trade zone, as Azarov tells us. This is the only spotless space, this is the new union agreement. This is the governing body of this commission, where 80 percent of Russia will have it. These economic losses to Ukraine, not just the government budget, are more than 20 billion a year. Entrepreneurs will lose 12 billion a year. An unworked mechanism to get out of the EP. This Agreement runs counter to the strategic course of Ukraine, the international treaties that have been adopted in this Hall, and the honourable deputies. I'm going in. and relevant other documents that will bring us closer to Europe, not Asia. The agreement is made in a single copy in Russian. This is the humiliation of the Ukrainians, this is the humiliation of our language, this is the disgraceful attitude towards us, the Ukrainians, the appropriate factors, the appropriate structures that want to sign the treaty with us. They haven't signed the treaty yet. Derjduma's already responding. Recently, on the initiative of the LDPR faction, you don't know, they're already raising questions about why it's the National Council of Television and Radio Broadcasting about the fact that Ukrainian television should only use national language. They are already interfering with our affairs and will intervene. Now I want to address all the conscious Ukrainians who are sitting in that room: don't be traitors, don't press the button. Because you will be the kind of people who will betray Ukrainians and Ukrainian national ideas. I appeal to those deputies who still have at least a hint of conscience. You have to think about what's coming for you. And I want to tell you, there will be no forgiveness for any traitor who today will push the button, and who will accordingly betray Ukraine to Russia! And finally. I want to go to most people, I want to go to those grief businessmen who think they're going to raise a lot of money for this cooperation with Russia. But, comrades, you will be abandoned as a thief! This is where the Russian business will come, and you will be strangled, and like a mouse, you will scream! Don't you get it? And Ukrainians will stand to defend their national interests, and Ukrainians will not give up their territories to Russia. And you have to understand that, and you have to realize that. No, no contracts!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, calm down. I put to the vote a draft decree on the non-admissibility of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Single Economic Space Agreement, registration number 0183/p5, introduced by the People's Deputy of Tuggnibok. [[14:20:16]] For 106
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u164	The decision is not taken. Draft Inadmissibility Order No. 0183/p6. The authors are the national MP Rudzikowski, Baraniovski. Who will report? Mikola Rudzkowski? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u165	Honorable National MPs. Always, if there is an agreement between two or several nations, the question arises: Whose interests is it in? Can we say that this treaty is in the national interest of Ukraine and of the citizens living in its territory? The governing body provides that the Russian Federation will have more than 75 percent of the vote. I don't want to say that the representative of the Russian Federation will vote against the interests of Ukraine, I'm not sure that the strategic partner will act like this. But why can’t we, the national MPs, motivate our government to make such a decision that Ukraine’s position is also heard in a national body. And perhaps this would have to be included in this covenant. So, I'm paying attention, first of all, this is a question that conflicts with the Constitution. And we understand this: there are political interests, and there are national interests of Ukraine. So if we're saying that this agreement is going to be ratified in terms such as the treaty, it's going to act against interests primarily in the Ukrainian business, because it's going to work in the interests of the big Russian business. Both Abramovich and Potanin will be lobbyed by the Russian representative in the supervisory body, because Russia has declared its strategy, imperialistic in relation to the states that are next door. Russia and I want to live in friendship, peace, with the Russian people to build their happy future. But as national MPs, we should certainly defend national economic and political interests and sovereignty. And such proposals are in a bill prepared by the National Socialist MPs. I'd like Yuri Lucenko to report whether Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz will report. And with such proposals you can then vote in favour of such an agreement. Because if we vote as we are, it will actually act against our economic and political interests. And I want to say one more thing. Honorable national MPs, some nations have chosen their independence and sovereignty in battle, losing thousands and hundreds of thousands of their patriots. Ukraine has gained independence, thanks to its historic moment and its successful actions, I would say, Leonidas Makarovitch as the first secretary of the Company to want and the people wanted independence. But Leonid Makarovich, you made a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, please note the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the authors of the national MPs Rudzikowski, Baraniwski, registration number 0183/p-6 on the inadmissibility of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Single Forming Agreement. Oh, I'm sorry, the author withdrew his project. We don't vote. Well, don't yell, 'cause you can't hear anything. Take down the vote. The draft decree, the author is National Deputy Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, will you report on your project? Please have Karmazin, this is document 0183/p-7.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u167	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been suggested that this bill be sent to the Constitutional Court to reach the conclusion of its conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. That's it. And admit the bill so far unacceptable and reject. The best thing to do now is to send to the Constitutional Court for a conclusion, and after confirming the differences that we have reported, including the full justification of the rulings that I have given, to comply with the requirements of articles 9 and 156 of the Constitution and then to ratify only after making changes to the Constitution, which are to be approved by an all-Ukrainian referendum. I am for those who do not know and for the representatives of the Russian Embassy who are now closely monitoring how their satellites are voting here, and I want to publish the conclusions of the State Duma Committee on Economic Policy, Enterprise and Tourism on the draft federal law so that you know the real reasons. Thus, for real reasons: “Although the agreement provides for the harmonization of the conditions for accession to the world trade organization, further WTO, Ukraine is negotiating separate autonomous accession to WTO. That's how it turns out! It's not an independent state, it's a separate state, it's an autonomous WTO accession. It has already concluded more than 20 treaties with WTO member countries. Just know that we are not conducting separate negotiations, but as an independent state we are conducting and leading! You write that: “It is obvious that if Ukraine continues to renounce the measures agreed upon with Russia to join the WTO, this will lead to the collapse of the EP project.” He'll bring it in. “Ukraine is trying to achieve, as in bilateral relations with Russia, with the CIS member countries as a whole, the establishment of a free trade zone in its radical form, without the exception of individual product groups, the collection of a value added tax from oil and gas exports to the Ukrainian budget, and the supply of oil and gas to Ukraine at domestic Russian prices. It is clear that the implementation of this option of integration outside the package of measures to create an EPP will lead to serious economic losses for the Russian side.” That's it, Nikolai Janović, read the Russian papers! So they keep writing. They further write: “It is necessary to take into account external factors that are linked to the fact that the fight for strategic priority positions in the post-Soviet area and the tightening competition in the markets of CIS member countries will inevitably increase and thereby reduce the time limit for Russia to create a full EP”. That is why, today, with the brutal violation of the Rules, these laws are being enacted: for Russia is being reduced as a stepneath, the time is being reduced by the time of Azarov, Kuchma, Yanukovich’s stay in power!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u168	Thank you. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, author Yuri Carmazin, registration number 0183/p7: on the postponement of the review of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space until the date of inclusion in the agenda and compliance with the terms set out in Part One of Article 6.2. 13, parts two, four, five, article 11.01 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[14:28:37]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we still have four alternative projects. We have agreed with you that, despite the fact that the right of the legislative initiative on these issues is either the Cabinet of Ministers or the President of Ukraine, that the authors are given the right to base these projects, so that we have the full idea, the full picture, and determine how we are going to vote. The word is given by Yuri Kostenko. This is a pre-document. Number 0183 19.04. In 2004
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I have passed an alternative bill because a government bill can put Ukraine in great trouble. First of all, I'm talking to colleagues from the Communist faction who keep saying that they're protecting the interests of the Ukrainian people. See what happens when you ratify the government version. The unemployment rate in Ukraine will increase by 25-30 percent every year and about 250,000 Ukrainian youth will look for work abroad every year. Every year, revenue reductions in the State budget will range from 8 billion to 12 billion dollars. Accordingly, spending on social aspects, such as financing education, science, medicine, and other social sectors, will be reduced. Third. Coal production in the Donetsk region will decline twice, and this is a huge unemployment for the workers who supported you and voted for you. Third. Pension fund. Every year there's going to be a reduction of 2-3 billion dollars and a pension rate. Pensions will be reduced by 4-5 per cent each year. And the last. The rate of fall is bracelets. On average, 15-20 percent a year. This is a depreciation of the national currency. That's what we're putting our voters and our citizens at risk. Therefore, the bill on the ratification of the EP agreement prepared by our experts foresees, firstly, that Ukraine restricts its participation in the EP only through the free trade zone. The other one. That Ukraine participates in an agreement on the formation of the EP only within and in forms that do not conflict with the Constitution and the strategic course for European integration. Third. That Ukraine will not participate in the creation and functioning of a single regulatory body, as well as any other national authorities, nor will it delegate its representatives to these bodies. Four. Ukraine will not feel obliged to pursue a single foreign trade policy, financial policy, and customs policy. And the fifth. It is that Ukraine will not join the paragraph on the formation of the EP, leaving behind the right to form any warnings to those agreements that will be signed within the single economic space. Dear colleagues! These warnings, at least, minimize the threats we face to the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian electorate. That's why I'm addressing the majority and the Communist faction deputies. Dear friends! Do not trade in your country, do not give in to the bondage of your children, and God will not forgive you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u170	May I have your attention, please? The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space will be reported by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. [[authors: Baraniwski, Lucenko, Moroz, Šibko]] Get ready for Klukkowski, right? Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u171	Dear fellow MPs! Let's calm down a little bit. The world is not black and white, and today, in some extremes and others, there are no precise arguments, because the argument has not been prepared, unfortunately, by the government. So this is such a, you know, political discussion for no use. We will not always be without Russia, Russia will not be without Ukraine, but Ukraine is a sovereign, it depends on us whether it is sovereign or not. Our party, a socialist party, has always advocated strengthening economic ties with Russia, with other SND countries. The project is serious progress in that direction. In general, we support the idea of developing a mutually beneficial economic relationship. But such a dangerous universality and uncertainty of a document cannot be ratified without warning, let's be left-handed, right-handed, or as one of our colleagues said, none like rollers. Still, it is necessary to make a warning, for no one will be able to deal with the problem when it arises on a legal basis. We gave out our project with warnings, there are five major warnings: political, legal, economic. I'm not gonna stop at them, I'm just gonna say that. For example, from an economic point of view, we're talking about creating a free trade zone without restrictions or exclusions. If that is not the case, it means that, compared to the Rostov plant, for example, the Plainazeot will fly in literally six months. The same will be true of Czerkaski and other businesses. Economically, this means a total reduction in the volume of trade in Ukrainian goods in Russia. That's what we need to understand. If we do not feel that way, let us accept what the government is offering. If we're talking about a single tariff policy, that means a single subsidy policy. Then you can close all the mines in Ukraine, just like you closed in the Rostov area of the mine right now in Russia, because we will be uncompetitive in the market for this, taking into account the advantages that are today in Russia. So once again, we must, with restrictions on the rights of the interstate regulator, decide only by consensus on the basis of economic interests of both Russia and Ukraine. This is the only way to vote on this project. I would like us to support this project, because even the President's approval of the need to abide by the Constitution sets out a clear formulation on the part of the Supreme Council. This is where they're put. Please support them. Yes, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space, by Matvienko and Klukkowski, reports Yuri Klukkowski. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, my colleague Anatoly Matvienka and I have introduced an alternative draft law not because we believe that the Agreement on the Single Economic Space can benefit Ukraine. No, I am deeply convinced that all that is written on these slogans is true. EP is unemployment for miners. EP is total unemployment. Throughout Ukraine, the EP is a loss of independence. And these 1.5 million citizens of Ukraine and those thousands of citizens who gathered under the Supreme Council are aware of this. Yet, the President of Ukraine signed a treaty with a warning that was unspecified. True, I point out to the Head of the Supreme Council that when the President signed the treaty, he was supposed to bring it up for ratification, and he didn't assign the Cabinet of Ministers to it, at least we don't know anything about it. And this is also a violation of Ukrainian legislation. But since the President’s warnings were unknown, on September 12, 2003, three ministers of the current government of economic and Euro-integration, foreign affairs, and justice signed a document that is the result of an analysis by the experts of these ministries of the treaty itself and its possible consequences. Our own bill is based on this document. And I'd like two of the three ministers here to confirm this to the Ukrainian National Deputies. I ask you to familiarize yourself with these eight proposals, of which only eight are ours, the author's, and all seven are copied from that document. I'll remind them. The goal of Ukraine's participation in the Single Economic Space is to create a free trade zone and only free trade zones without exceptions and restrictions, not with the preservation of pan-European, domestic energy prices, as proposed. Participation in the formation of the EP only within the limits that do not conflict with the course for European Euro-Atlantic integration and the accession to the World Trade Organization, not separate negotiations, but with sovereign negotiations led by Ukraine. Ukraine understands the word "integration" as co-operation on the principles of sovereign equality, not subordination to "the older brother." Enough with the older brother. Ukraine participates in harmonisation of legislation only to the extent that it does not conflict with the Partnership Agreement, cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. Ukraine will not participate in the creation and operation of a single regulatory body or any national body. These are the minimum conditions recorded by the government of Yanukovic, ministers of the government of Yanukovic, which guarantee at least some dignity of the sovereign Ukraine at the time of joining the EP. I ask you to consider these proposals as amendments to the official one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Rudzikowski, withdrew his draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of the Single Economic Space. I'll be in line, registering now to put these documents to the vote. People's deputies, please concentrate. I'll put it to a vote. For reasons, please write down the motive for voting for three minutes. Three minutes. Please sign in. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Stepan Bulba, PPE faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u174	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I believe that before the vote, the definition is complete. I don't think we're getting arguments from Kabmin to be definitive. We, the socialists, will generally support the bill proposed by members of our faction, members of the faction led by Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u175	Yes, Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u177	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Sergei, thank you, because I actually want to emphasize that, gentlemen, we can do a lot, and fellow members of the national MPs, we can talk a lot about this, conveniently not conveniently, betrayal is always convenient. So I talked to some of them: who among the beliefs would betray the Ukrainian people and their constituents. Believe it! Because there's not a second, not a cent, not a penny of Ukrainian convenience. No, no, no, no, no. Believe it! Because this vote is only for one simple reason that at the moment when there are those people in power, there are Azarovs, Kuchmi who will give Ukraine free of charge under the voting guarantees, which, by the way, they do not first follow on the Russian side, only now they are in a hurry to ratify and destroy Ukrainian statehood. And that's why whoever's in opposition is obvious, imaginary, in any given situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u179	Colonies, please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u180	I ask you to pass the word to Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u181	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like the results of the vote not to be influenced by the points that mislead both the MPs and our voters. It is meant that the draft law was already in our hands on March 11th, not only now. Second. There were statements that there was a lack of compliance with European legislation. We have the opinion of the Minister of Justice that the draft law on regulation is not a priority area of adaptation. Ukraine to EU legislation. And the last. They say 80 per cent of decisions will be made by someone. Today, there is a principal body, the Council of Heads of Power, which decides by consensus. That's why I'd like to keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u183	Uncle, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. He says what he thinks is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u185	Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! In fact, for many years our grandparents have shed blood for independence, for the sovereignty of Ukraine. Today, she seems calm by clicking on the button. But before you press, I'd like you to think again about Azarov's speech, which said that we're going to have the same energy value as in Russia. It's three times lower today. All of this is not an agreement reached. And that means that all of the goods produced in Ukraine will be three times more expensive than the goods produced in Russia. And that means that our goods will no longer have any value in Russia, and Russian goods will completely dominate the Russian market. As a result, most of our people will lose their jobs. And I just urge you not to destroy Ukraine and vote against ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, according to the registration of receipts, I put the first draft of the government to the vote. May I have your attention, please? Number 0183, I'll read it, "The Ukrainian Act on Ratification of the Agreement on the Forming of a Single Economic Space. The Supreme Council DECIDES: an agreement on the formation of a single economic space signed on 19 September 2003 in Yalta to ratify with the following warning: Ukraine will participate in the formation and operation of a single economic space within the limits of the Constitution of Ukraine." [[added]] I am voting on the approval of the draft law on the ratification of an agreement on the formation of a single economic space, number 0183. Please provide a list of missing persons. [[14:44:47]] For 265 Decision taken. The factions, please. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 61, Communist faction - 59, Industrial and Business Party - 38, SDPU - 37, SPO - 0, Timoshenko - 0, "The People's Government" - 18, "Deminicatives" - 17, Agrarian Party - 7, "The People's Choice" - 11, NDP - 10, "The People's Party" - 7. Morning meeting. The replica. Simonenko, please. Now you're going to take the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u188	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I took the line because the presentations very often referred to the Company, and they tried to criticize us, our clear, principled, consistent policies. I would like to refer to a statement by one of the “ours” who said that “we will close the borders so that no oligarch will escape”. More than half of the "ours" have been pushing for the opening of the border. See, so to speak, the truth is that there are some oligarchs there. Second. I would like to turn to those who have criticized and appealed very much with the lilies of our people in Ukraine to believe that they are telling the truth: return Lazarenko's money to Ukraine, then the people of Ukraine will believe you. And third. I would like once again to draw your attention to the fact that, thanks to your policy, five to seven million Ukrainian citizens are working today outside Ukraine. You left them there, you abandoned the children and the fathers, the elderly without the help that we should be providing. I hope it's a faction position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u189	John the Rabbit, please, a replica. Then Lucenko. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u190	I'm listening to the leader of the Communist Party, and I'm thinking, to which level you have to go, how you have to lose your conscience to lie suddenly when you think you have the sovereignty of Ukraine! This is a person who has no conscience, who serves the interests of the Mafia, who today serves the interests of those who have sold Ukraine for money, not sold to have a better economy. And after that, he says some words! But I want to address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. By our procedure, under our Rules, you still have to put forth a bill that is submitted by the committee, where amendments can be made, my dear friend, to this bill. So everything you've done here goes against the Constitution of Ukraine again. You're a gang again! You don't do anything else. But, you know, it's not gonna work. Nephasicism will not pass! Ukraine will be a state and we will have an economy that will throw away this Communist Party and the Mafia as unnecessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u191	Put your hands down, I see. Lucenko. Then Simonenko. Calm down. I've already called. Then you'll be performing. I'll take the whole break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u192	Dear voters! Dear radio listeners! I would like to point out right now that there has just been a vote, which unfortunately the chairman conducted in an unaltered regime. The point is that socialists support the single economic space agreement, but you can't run ahead. The only essential and possible basic language is the creation of free trade without restrictions and exclusions, without national authorities, where one of the unifying parties will rule in an indivisible way. Regrettably, the chairman did not want to put to the vote a normal, balanced state-owned project that the Socialist Party had put to the vote. Instead, a bill was put in place to guide Ukraine’s economic subordination to other countries associated with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say this. You have to study the Rules first and then say something. Please, Simonenko. Then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u194	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention today to those who live in the western areas of Ukraine, to the fact that it is today that Russian capital has twice as much property in the western areas as in the eastern ones. That "ours" sold in 12 years all the most powerful factories in Western Ukraine to the Russian capital, and this Russian capital today is also taking part in the oppression of the people of Ukraine, about which today "ours" are so roasted and the tears are pouring. Then they shed tears only when they have their pockets full, and when our people are hungry, including in Western Ukraine, they forget about it because they live a completely different life. They live as "ours" who have always sold their own people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u195	Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to address you as the Head of the Supreme Council, you're a senior official. You know, Ukraine is always interested in contact with Russia because it's our real partner and neighbor. But what we voted today, we actually tricked Russia. Believe me, Russia won't ratify in this way, because it's completely inconclusive. What does it mean within the Constitution? What does the Ukrainian Constitution mean for Russia? We're just trying to fool Russia today. And why are we doing this? Already, if you work, you really make a normal deal that will be useful for both four countries. And today, we're just going to go ahead with this ratification of the other three countries. And these are the consequences of such non-professionalism that has unfortunately demonstrated our active government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u197	Please, Cloud and Carmazin, and we're done. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u198	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You are one of the top three officials of the state. You could have taken a real, just, legal position today and not conspired with the traitors of Ukraine. I don't know what lawyers have been preparing for you this report, where they say that the International Contracts Act works in a part that doesn't conflict with the Constitution. So with regard to this agreement, the law does not conflict precisely because the Constitution itself does not allow Ukraine to join international structures or to change territory, it requires a referendum, which requires two-thirds of the votes of the Supreme Council. You've gone to a lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u199	Yuri Carmazin, please, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Honorable Ukrainian people. What happened now could still be corrected. Corrected if the Head and you, the honourable national deputies, do as the Rules provide. What's voted is just the first reading of the law. The law, the ordinary law of ratification, is the law. If there's a denial, it's generally, you know, not accepted. The entire International Affairs Committee has given its warnings. The whole committee, where there are completely different policies. I don't want to talk and argue with the communist fascists, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, We didn't sell our soul, and we have nothing to sell in this country. I'm asking you two to provide and that's it. And then there will be legality and justice. Two readings, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's up to you, and everyone understands that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-20-m0.u201	The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. The first question will be the information on the events in Mukachevo, after 16 hours.
