ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:34]] A total of 440 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Signe Sergey Grigorovitch. Let us welcome Sergey Grigorovich, and wish him good health and success in his activities. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Salmin Oleg Volodymyrovic, from the Democratic Initiatives Group. I ask the leadership of the faction to determine for two weeks the fate of the faction, since 13 national deputies remain in the group. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council meeting on Monday, yesterday we set the meeting schedule for October 5-8. You will be given a list of questions to discuss and decide from them. If there's no warning, we'll get to work. Dear colleagues, two factions require a 30-minute recess. [[The NDP and Industrial and Entrepreneurs and the "Regions of Ukraine"]] Perhaps we should follow this established practice, which is why you take a break, you need to make an application, make an application immediately, and we will continue our work. Who will speak from the two factions that called for recesses? Petrov? Please. Oleg Petrov, faction of the People's Democratic Party, industrialists and entrepreneurs. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u2	A statement by the faction of the People's Democratic Party, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the crimes committed by the People's Deputies, the members of the BUT and Our Ukraine MPs. On October 2, 2004, a representative of the BUT faction, Andrew School, and a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Yuri Orobec, along with a group of unknown persons, joined the New Friend Society's printing and physically and morally abused its employees, damaged the material values of the enterprise. In time, another representative of our Ukraine, Vladimir Bondarenko, joined them. Powerful action was carried out on the Sabbath night, when the production was out of managers and the vast majority of employees. The members of the Righteous Paradise Department of the Ukrainian city of Kiev were involved in the site. When his owners arrived at the company, one of them, Vyacheslav Deserthovetenko, was beaten by a national deputy, Andrew School. As a result, Viacheslav Desert Tenko was forced to seek medical attention from doctors. The NDP and PPU faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is outraged by the violent actions of the representatives of Butt and Our Ukraine and expresses support for the head of the People's Democratic Party, co-chair of the Valeria Desertka faction, whose son suffered as a result of the attack, as well as the other co-owner of the private company "New Friend" by members of the NDP policy, the head of the Board of Directors of the Righteous District of Kiev Volodymiro Kalinko, who also experienced the image of the attackers. The "New Friend" is one of the stable private polygraph companies that does virtually the whole range of printing services, and has strong authority both in Ukraine and beyond. It is one of the largest taxpayers in the capital, with a mark of Mayor Kyiv. By performing various commercial orders, the company also produces pre-election advertising products. They are convinced that it is this situation that has provoked strong action on the part of the appointed deputies. According to the Law on the Status of National Deputies, they have the right to have access to enterprises of various forms of property, but no one allows them to take possession of property and human dignity. The People's Democratic Party has always advocated the formation of political forces and the entire Ukrainian society for socio-economic reforms. She was among the first political parties to condemn the disgraceful events in Donetsk, which were associated with the obstacle to the holding of the "Our Ukraine" convention, as well as the violation of legislation during the elections of Mayor Mukachev in Zakarpatta. The NDP and its faction in Parliament repeatedly appealed to all the political forces involved in the 2004 presidential election race, calling for fair elections. Similarly, the leaders of political parties and public organizations have been urged by the head of the NDP and the party faction Valerius Desertovetenko, at the same time demonstrating personal respect and readiness for dialogue with all the participants in the presidential competitions. However, it seems that some political leaders or members of their teams, who are trapped in pre-election emotions and political ambitions, are acting on double standards. The faction of the NDP and PPU in the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires a legal assessment of the action.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u3	Yes, thank you. Calm down with the lines, please. Yes, thank you. Yes, dear fellows, calm down. Calm down! Yes, two factions here again -- "Our Ukraine" and "BUT." Then the line, calm down! Dear colleagues, let them speak now, and then they'll give me a transcript to see if I can get a name. I didn't just hear you, calm down, please. Calm down! Dear colleagues, if you'd like to disrupt the session, let's move on to the lines. Calm down! The two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" -- require a 30-minute break. I understand it's now to perform. Three minutes, please, and we'll keep working. Who's speaking? It's a duck, isn't it? Calm down, please. I beg of you, Your Honor, we must work in spite of difficult moments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u4	Dear National MPs from the NDP factions who have made a statement now. We have the events that you're describing, we're documented in the video, and we're ready to show them in the session room to see that this is a lie. Dear Valery Pavlovich, I understand you as a father, I understand your motivation, but your son has broken the law, and he will have to answer. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and radio listeners! Ukraine’s electoral campaign has entered the final phase. Despite the huge financial resources spent, on the full monopoly in the media, on the unprecedented scale of a runaway campaign, despite the administrative pressure exerted on fanklub ratings, the election authority loses. And the fear of getting rid of the powers of power pushes it not only to go beyond public opinion, the law or the Constitution -- they go beyond the interests of Ukraine. Look at these posters. The cynicism of power passes the limit; Ukraine becomes the object of information aggression. Ukraine, as a state, is being humiliated. The crisis of the ruling elite leads to it, instead of properly representing the sovereign nation, de facto acting as Cossacks of the neighbouring state. How can a public declaration of sovereignty actually cause political and social destabilisation in the country, the division of Ukraine, the provocation of national conflicts, the propaganda of fascism?Oh, my God! Today, polygraph companies are being charged with printing political pornography, like those posters that we deleted on New Paper. They want to instill disgust in the election and eventually falsify and cancel the election at all. It will not work, for the law is protected by the common people, the citizens of the great letter. They're everywhere; the Department of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Security Service, the Attorney General's Office. The authorities of all levels. In factories and printing, it's these people who report any organized provocations. They're tired of the dirt and the lies, they're longing for an honest future. And those who are willing to sacrifice the international image of Ukraine, public peace and social harmony will not rule the country. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are a legitimate figure of authority in our country today, you have sufficient authority, stop it, activate the commission. Please hand all these posters over to real customers. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and you, activate the work of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. I would only ask speakers not to say nice words to my address, and I have enough problems anyway. Yes, dear fellows. Well, they've already said everything, so please, let's work. Well, we'll cancel the meeting. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Well, positions are clear to each other. Sit down, please. Sign up. Three minutes of motive, please. Give me the stenographer. Whose name is that? Well, have a seat, please. Don't look! Well, please. Write your motives, please. Three minutes. On the board, please have a name. Mikola Tomenko, please. Then the Drogunts will be Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u6	Please give the floor to my colleague from Victor Yushchenka’s Block of Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u7	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I want to report that yesterday, at 9:00 in Donetsk, two free student initiative activists, Batrak Alexander and Batrak Tetian, were abducted at nine o'clock in the morning. This organization sympathizes with the people's presidential candidate and advocates fair elections, democracy, truth and justice and spreads, among other things, honest material about the candidate to the Presidents of Yushchenka. For this, bandits or other civilians kidnapped these people and held them captive for up to 17 hours. Then, under threat of death, they released Brother and Sister Batrak and told them not to tell anyone. I'm glad it happened to them. Bandits demanded where the papers were coming from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u9	Sergey Doroguntsov. Please calm down. Sergey Doroguntsov. Calm down, please. Mikhailo Melniczuk later.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u10	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Droguncs. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! There's still a lot of time left, but I can see the passions surrounding this question certainly coming to us. And I call on everyone: and the factions that made the first performances, and the factions that did the second act, to restraint. You can't be so banditish. Some break in, others print. Where's that supposed to go? If this goes on, the shooting will start here soon. What is more, you also have the original means of throwing stones, balls, and so forth. I very much ask for restraint, I call for tolerance, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u11	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have just seen what fair and transparent elections are going on in Ukraine. What honest and transparent technologies are being developed in those who belong to the right people. Therefore, it is not necessary to make a statement to those who are viewed as victims but to call upon the entire world that is being done in our Ukraine. It's a repetition of those fakes, it's a repetition of the millionth edition of "The Village News," it's what was against Alexander Frost in 1999, it's repeated because the technology in the Bank doesn't change. That's why we have what we have today. That's why we have this democracy in the state today. I understand why the President said it would be the very dirty election campaign. Hence, he no doubt knows who is doing it and their performers. Let them do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Let's listen to Sergey Ivanovich Draguntsov! Let's finally work! I'll do it. One minute! Dear colleagues! I looked. Calm down! I saw that the screenplay mentioned the last name. No, no. You don't need a sparrow. Bondarenka and School. All of it. Please don't. I'm begging you! Well, I beg of you, dear fellows! Two names were most emphasized. They're entitled to a replica! All of it. Please calm down! Bondarenko microphone! Then there's school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u14	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, block of Viktor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine". Dear friends! My colleagues and I spent a night and two days at a high - tech plant, costing more than a million dollars. I was surprised by a few things. How could a young man who later became the son of one of the former leaders of the State take this money? Apparently, from the salary of a father’s civil servant or with his blood - earned equipment purchased. What was printed on it? It printed outright pornography alongside the agitators for Yanukovich, as well as dirty materials that Kuchma directed to print by Januković’s headquarters or someone else. Today, this is yet to be determined. But in order to establish it, it takes the police and the prosecutor's office, which we haven't been able to call in in two hours. So when the young men arrived, turned off the lights, and started pushing the deputies, insulting them, only then did we find that they were commanded by the master of the printing. So if you'll excuse me, it was just an attack on the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u15	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I would like to remind everyone here who made a statement from this rostrum, that in the printing where all this was going on, there was, first of all, a disgraceful violation of electoral legislation. It is a disgrace to stress this, because the whole printing plant was overrun not only by ordinary pornography but also by political pornography. I address my fellow national MPs here, which, of course, the money, Valery Pavlovich, does not smell, but you can't make a penny, 30 pieces of silver on the disgrace of your fellow Parliamentary colleagues. And there we had 5 million of this product. And the next thing you know, there's a beating. I'm nothing but a beating up of national MPs, young man. The one who was stuttering and yelling about the militia, I didn't see. I didn't know who that was, and I thought for the first time that it was a truck that helped load and unload products in this building. So anyone who's going to speak, I'd like to know that there's no incident except the attack on the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u17	Well, we agreed, I'm begging you, we've already told you, well, don't rip it off, I beg you. Boris Jakovitch, please. What two minutes. One minute, Bespaly, please. And please don't call it a last name. Please don't call it a last name. Please take your seats. Calm down, I beg of you, dear colleagues. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u18	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to do such a thing. Now there's a message, and I'd like to draw the attention of law enforcement authorities, as if from the data that came from the BARARs on the Viaprit, which is at the center of the university, a large number of products of a known criminal nature are printed, including direct pornography, as it was on a typography that the son of Deserter Valery Pavlovich allegedly doesn't own, and another year, criminal information. I also point out that it was me and the Orobec national MP on the evening of October 2nd, along with Vladimir Bondarenko, that the police called. But so far, there is the inactivity of the U.S. Attorney General's Office, which has all the signs of criminal inaction in hiding a crime. So I ask that, perhaps, the representatives of the IMF and the Henprosecutors here be called upon to stop their criminal activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. The robot, please, the last one. They don't call names anymore. Please. Calm down. And no last names.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished journalists, distinguished voters. Today at 2 p.m. at the press conference, we're going to show the real facts of the attack on Ukrainian national MPs by her son. And whoever we caught by the hand at the crime scene couldn't save his skin in a hospital bed. Next. I believe that Valery Pavlovich and Viktor Yanukovic should be explained how the current Prime Minister and former Prime Minister should be involved in distributing and printing materials that fuel national and inter-State hostilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask all speakers to adhere to delicate standards and work for the consolidation. All of it. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Everyone has spoken. A draft Law on Housing Credits to Ukrainian Citizens is being announced for consideration. From the questions raised during the presentations, and with a motive, I ask you to prepare appropriate assignments, including those that were violated by national MP Viacheslav Kirilenko. The two factions once again came up with a proposal to announce the break, but I looked carefully at the faction of the "Ukraine" has already been used for a break in the previous one, so I can't give a break. A draft Housing Credit Act of Ukraine, registration number 1285, 1285-1, is being announced. Rapporteurs are Ukrainian National Deputy Petrov Oleg and Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture Valerius Skull. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Sergey Terjohin. The committee proposes the following rules of procedure: three minutes for the interviewers, three minutes for the answers to questions, three minutes for the committee's report, three minutes, discussion and decision-making. No objections? Please, Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to invite you to a little bit from the election race to a very serious bill that we haven't been looking at for the first year with the government and with the deputies, because there's been a lot of motions for this bill, and today it has two forms that we've been looking at on the committee and we've found consensus. The main task of the Ukrainian Housing Credit Act is to establish legal and organisational rules to improve the level of government regulation and support in the area of housing credit, to create and operate public and regional mortgage mechanisms, to improve the quality of the legislative base in this area, to ensure accessibility for every citizen of social services provided by the central executive authorities in the area of housing credit by the State Housing Fund established by the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing. Over the past six years, more than six thousand young families have been loaned credits to the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing. Since the end of 2000, the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing has initiated a new housing loan scheme, offset the interest rate of commercial banks on young families and single young citizens for the construction, reconstruction, and acquisition of housing, which has already been offset by about 500 young families, has seen a significant increase in their growth. A regional department has been formed in all exceptions. During this time, we faced an increase in the price of age. I thank the people's deputies who voted, and we've raised the price of young families up to 35 years of age to significantly increase and require credit for construction and housing. But the existing levels of state housing support are not enough, and every year 5,000 or 7,000 potential lenders lose their last hope of housing because their age exceeds the limits. The emergency remains the need to provide housing for military personnel and their families, including those released in connection with the reduced number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is a problem that has been addressed separately by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the BAF, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Enforcement, and others. But in general, the complex situation of providing military personnel with housing is not changing radically. Individually, a category of citizens, such as government officials, whose social protection in the area of housing has not reached the right level, can be mentioned. Exploitation of government funds by individual programmes reduces the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources. The construction and acquisition of housing should be carried out by a specialized agency, so the need for a central executive body with special status has become apparent. The Ukrainian Housing Credit Act, which will determine the legal, organisational, economic and social conditions for citizens of Ukraine who live in the territory, should address these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u23	Yes, dear fellows, are there any questions? Yes. Please sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Manchulenka, follow by Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u24	George Manchulenko, 203rd constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear reporter, there is no doubt that resolving the problem of housing lending to citizens is relevant and necessary. I would like to hear from you the answers to the following questions. First. Let's say in the section of my constituency. Most of them are mountain settlements. For example, will these citizens have reliable guarantees and benefits under this bill because they live in a mountainous area? And second, with regard to the inhabitants of rural areas, because today there are much more problems in rural areas than in urban areas, especially large, large cities? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. I want to emphasize that this is the strategic objective of this law. I want to say, first of all, that the law regulates the terms at all, starting with this one on your hands, you have a bill that starts with terms. And we're just assigning a category of social housing. First of all, this law regulates social housing. It's a mountain area, and that's exactly what I listed, our specialized organs, and that's the construction of the village housing. We have this law that you and I passed five years ago, after a youth loan, that we have this project, the country house. Unfortunately, he's making very little money today because the weight, you know, young people, in cities, and more loans, is now more than 200,000 turns for the MHC youth. And that's why this law regulates that housing in rural areas and in specialized areas should go more and more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u26	Please, Matvienkov. After him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u27	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Oleg Vladimirovich, I have three questions for you. Question one: What can stimulate or force commercial banks, what have you recorded, to work under this credit line? We have made such a decision many times before, but unfortunately they were only left on paper. Second question. How can we solve this problem of concession that you have struck? That is, five children - you can not pay interest, and a non-compulsory system of payments. The word "necessary" is, what do you mean? And how then, in such a case, a commercial bank will compensate for the losses you make to it. And third. Do you not think that without the adoption of the Housing Code in the complex this issue will be very and very difficult to resolve, because we have very many contradictions that are written in the law today and in the existing regulatory framework, and they are all intertwined in the same knot? Do you think that we should also consider the new Housing Code here at the same time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. I'm totally not separating the new Housing Code from this law, but if you've noticed, we're considering two laws and two résumés. There is the law of the Cabinet of Ministers, Valery Ivanovich Scorp will report to him. And there is our law, a group of people's deputies, which is based on a basic law that we passed five years ago and that is in force in Ukraine today. This is primarily the Youth Housing Credit Act. You can see that today the demand for this law is increasing and that the Supreme Council has increased from 30 to 35 centuries old, it is also a positive factor. The fact that the number of queues will increase today is not said to be normal, but the more they become, the law is in force to date. And I want you to understand that to date, we don't want to break the law of the Housing Code. But by the time we adopt the Housing Code, the Youth Credit Act is in force. Why don't we go ahead, as we say, and make the law? And the banks. My point here is that we are here to discuss the issue. This is the most fundamental question, my profound view that there should be a central body of public authority and direct lending, as we have done in that law. Not through the bank, but direct lending from the State is done. I will remind you that by entering into the Youth Housing Credit Act, we are also dealing with the demographic problem. I want to say that 3 percent is the percentage. 3 per cent of the law at the birth of 1 child is extinguished by the State, 25 per cent of the loan at the birth of the second child is extinguished by the State and 50 per cent of the loan at the birth of the third child. And statistics say that in families that have taken credit, fertility has increased to almost 40 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u29	Yes, please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u30	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter, first of all, you might want to thank us for raising the problem of lending, especially in rural areas. But on this question, I have already received the answer in previous answers. And I have a question for you. Could it not be possible for credit to build multistory buildings that are now in villages, villages, and so forth? It's very important if it's just private buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. In fact, it already exists, and we're already doing it, it's a secondary market. It wasn't in the secondary market, the secondary market is starting to work today, we want it to be, really, also within the legislative framework, legalized and it all worked out. That's a very good offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Please have a seat, Oleg Volodymyrovich. Bill number 1285-1 of the Cabinet of Ministers reports to the head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, Valery Ivanovich Scorp. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The point is that today we are proposing a bill that is being tabled by the government and considered by the Supreme Council committee to support all the deputies. It's about a bill on government funding and targeted credit for housing. You know that this problem is very difficult in the state today. And I would like to emphasize that the bill that is being tabled today refers to the priority category, because it addresses one of the main problems of society: housing for socially vulnerable categories of citizens are disabled people, many children, pensioners, black people, Afghans and other categories, which under the Constitution of Article 47 have the right to provide housing for the state or self-government authorities free of charge or for the fees available to them. I emphasize that this bill is not about lending all categories of citizens, it's going to be a mortgage, it's just those who need the protection or support of the state. The project went through all the general positions, and we agreed with everyone. In particular, the introduction of the concept of "social housing", which is now legally granted by the State or the authorities of self-government to citizens who need social protection for free of charge or for affordable remuneration according to legislation. The cost of this housing, as we allocate today, will be determined by the average cost of the total housing area, calculated by 1 square meter in the region and, of course, the price will be controlled by the state and by the State of Ukraine. Given the budgetary constraints, it's precisely what we'd like you to support today's bill that makes it possible. I also understand those MPs who are asking questions today about, therefore, the housing code. But the Housing Code is 147 articles, it's ideology. Today's law, without waiting for the Housing Code, gives us the right to make a clear definition of social housing for low-income groups and to work clearly on the mechanism, and to control clearly both at the State Budget and at the budget level, I have all the levels. Once again, the bill has passed, so the stage of inspection of all ministries and departments, everyone has supported it. The Committees of the Supreme Council, which were considered, also supported. We've agreed on a committee of the Supreme Council that there might be something that at the second reading stage we can combine these two laws at the second reading stage, and it will eventually come up with one bill that will regulate exactly social housing and, therefore, housing for those categories that today require State protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u34	Please sign up. Because John Stepanovich wants to ask a question. Yes, please point to the board. He warms up, after him, Frost. Warm up. Give me the Ivy question, John Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u35	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u36	Please, Ivan Stepanovich Plum is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u37	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valerius Ivanovich, you have a tremendous experience of working on drafts, both in government and in the Supreme Council. But I wonder how you can unify two laws in your second reading. Legislative practice says that if there is a government and a parliamentary project, especially on an extremely important issue, it is better to unite them at the first reading stage and that the second reading takes into account observations and suggestions. And if you two are going to unite at the second reading stage, it's impossible, because something has to be taken, based on getting married or being accepted in the first reading, and then taking notes and suggestions into account. So I ask, taking into account all that you have said, and the particular importance of this problem of housing construction, its accreditation, the integration of these two bills of parliament and government and the adoption of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u38	Thank you, Ivan Stepanovich. I made a statement, not to the committee, but to the comments of the people's deputies at the meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking. Your proposal further accelerates the adoption of this law today. So I also agree that today I will adopt and unify one and the other bills in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u39	Please, Anatoly Frost. He's behind him, Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u40	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Valery Ivanovich, we all see that Kiev is now building a residence on a broad front and perhaps more than was built in Soviet times. But on the periphery today, the situation is that it's practically built in areas, district centers, I don't talk about rural areas, it's practically dead, and it's barely breathing in areas. What do you think this law will practically solve these problems? Is there an order in this matter or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u41	Thank you. I'm answering. Over the last three years, housing in Ukraine has grown by 6 to 8 percent. This year it's going to be about 23 percent. Of course, it's like growing from a base is normal, and from need it's too small. So I wouldn't say that this law solves the housing problem in general as an ideology in Ukraine. This law solves the problem of the underprotected 350,000 families who have the right under the Constitution to receive housing either for free or for a small fee. What you're asking today is that in order to solve the problem in general, you need to adopt the Mortgage Act, today you need to work out the normative acts. We've filed about 15 normative acts. And when you and I take them to the Supreme Council, some of them at the stage of the Cabinet of Ministers or the President's decrees, then we open the way for a wide-ranging introduction of long-term credit, which will allow us to get twice as much housing in 2-3 years. And today, I say again, we're protecting defenseless sections of the population and we're controlling the extradition or financing of housing for these categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u42	Please, National Deputy Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u43	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 constituency, Deafness, Hard Ukraine faction. Valery Ivanovich, it's all good, your words like a song are on your ears. But you know, there's no average citizen in every city and I'm in the free district. And there's no foundation in the project. So we have to get out of reality. And that's what we're talking about. And the question I have is this, the project doesn't foresee, and there's no word for reconstruction of housing, just a new building: and what about the fact that in every village, 20-30 percent of buildings stand without windows, without doors. What should we do with them? Could these things be credited as well? And the question is: social housing, there's this -- it seems to separate categories of citizens for free or for separate wages. What's the pay? How does it relate to the cost of living? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u44	Thank you. You asked three questions. I answer in turn. First of all, what you're raising is the question of rebuilding housing, it's already the housing that's being used. And to this law it has no relation. We're having a conversation about building a new housing that's going to go into the housing lending phase. First. The other one. You're right, seven and a half million dollars in Ukraine today. kWh of housing is an 8-10-year-old building. So it's this law that gives us the opportunity at the state budget and local budgets stage to clearly write a program of each area, how much money it takes to get involved in this and this very category of buildings, which are eight to ten years old, including Deaf, that are not built. And the last. We have to move forward. So today there's a scheme that allows us to put the basic order even among social housing. And I'm not going to repeat myself, just the mortgage and long-term lending, is the answer to your question, what to do in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u45	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Terjehoin’s banking activities, Sergio Anatoliyovich. Can you do it in three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u46	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Mr. Chairman! Let me take the position of the Committee on Finance and Banking on this issue. Today, we have two bills that relate to each other in the field of legislative regulation, namely draft laws on State funding, targeted long-term housing lending by the Cabinet of Ministers, and housing lending by Ukrainian nationals, introduced by the national deputies Samylik Katerin Semenovna and Petrov Oleg Volodymyrovich. Both bills determine the general legal and organizational principles of public financing and targeted long-term housing lending for citizens with a view to implementing their constitutional right to housing. Bills provide provisions for the direction of housing financing at the expense of the State and local budgets. According to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Cabinet of Ministers Bill and, according to the bill of our colleagues, both of them can be based on the first reading. The Committee notes the importance and relevance of resolving the issue raised for the legislative settlement in view of the social economic impact of a positive decision. We have considered this bill at our meeting on September 21, 2004, and we recommend the adoption of the draft Ukrainian law on State funding for targeted long-term housing lending introduced by the Cabinet, namely 1285-1, and the draft law on housing lending of citizens made by the Samylik and Petrov people's deputies to take into account, if possible, when working on the above-mentioned bill for second reading. A draft of the appropriate decision is given to you. Well, I might add that if a bill of MPs is a good wish, it's a dream, because it's not backed up by financial instruments, then the Cabinet of Ministers bill has a very good name, and it doesn't have anything inside. So what do we have to do? This issue has not been resolved for many years. We have to take this issue away from the government, it's not going to do anything there, to us, to the hall, and together with the people's deputies, to make a really normal system of social housing and housing for low-security groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the co-conspirator? Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Vladimir Yavorowski, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block The honourable reporter, of course, will probably find no one in Ukraine to vote against it, and the question must be decided. But over the past 13 years, you and I know that only the lazy, there, whether the deputy minister, or any cleric of the Cabinet of Ministers, has not received housing or improved their living conditions. So I have a question for you: what kind of fuses are there in this bill? Because, let's say that if Yushchenko wins, there will be a new government, I understand that this government will conscientiously abide by this bill. What if Janukovich's team remains? Where are the fuses in this law that this money will not be torn down here in Kiev, and they will come, as the people's deputies said today, to the depths of the village, to the district center? Are we predicting something in this bill? I didn't find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. It's right that you didn't find him because he's not there. Moreover, the bill of government, signed by Mr. Janukovic, is a bill in which to take bribes. Why? According to this bill, about 25,000 square feet [25,000 sq m] of housing will be built annually. That's about six percent of the need. If there's six percent, there's 94 percent of the people who won't get this housing and stand in line -- to whom? - to the clerk, right? That's why I'm saying that we have to take the name and decide on what to do with social housing, by the way, whether to give it to property, whether we should give it only for the use of the underprivileged without the right of imitation and so on, as is done throughout the world, by the way. And finally, there's a line like that. You say every deputy in the Cabinet is a minister. But I remind you that each office of the Supreme Council, when it's finished, gives its own housing. And that should be the end of it. The last incident, you remember, was in 2002.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u50	Yes, Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u51	Alexander Pecklusenko, "Regions" faction, Zaporozhye district. I believe that you have rightly said that this law is very necessary and necessary and, in my view, the law of initiation is all that is necessary. The only thing I share is that most deputies have to build in the country. We have to build in the country! And it's not just building boxes, it's building infrastructure. This law should include infrastructure: roads, social facilities. Your attitude towards this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u52	Well, you're absolutely right. We're going from dividing into local buildings, in cities, we're going to say, and rural buildings, we're going to build metropolises, we're going to have megapolises. And to do that. To the extreme, you know what the difference is. When you leave Kiev, let's say, 20 kilometers away, you end up with the "Golden Gates" and you start to have an absolute meltdown. So this needs to be corrected and, I think in the second reading we're going to write with you tools how to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u53	Yes, thank you, time is up. Sergey Anatolyevich, please sit down. Yes, they signed up for the performance by the national MPs, Novak. Please prepare Frost Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u54	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I think the problem brought up by the authors of the law today is extremely important. One of the hottest socio-economic problems in Ukraine. After familiarizing myself with the draft law before me, I decided to ask, and what about the housing problem the President was talking about in his letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the President, about one and a half million families were in the early 2003 housing budget. This means that 1 in 10 families in Ukraine is in line for housing. As a joyous event, it has been noted that in the last three years, the total turnout has dropped by 496,000 families. But statistics show that the state provided only 86,000 apartments during this period. The ten thousand more maggots are shyly silent about where they are being shared. And the explanation here is simple. The reduction of the housing line was caused, inter alia, by the liquidation of it in connection with the closure, the dismissal of workers, the lack of funds, the liquidation of businesses in connection with bankruptcy, and so forth. The problem remains, it's just thrown into the shadows. The state turned its back on the people, left them with no housing and no hope of obtaining them. The biggest problem with housing is the social vulnerability of pensioners, war veterans and workers, disabled persons, unemployed people, and young people. They have virtually no hope of getting housing. I'll only get one digit. During 2003, 23,000 families received housing and improved housing conditions, representing 1.6 percent of those on the line. Clearly, the pace of housing construction and the amount of money spent on building housing at all levels in Ukraine do not provide a solution to the housing problem and, above all, to citizens in need of social protection and to families in need of social housing today at the turn of 520,000. We Communists, our leader in the Ukrainian Presidents, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, have always stood by the fact that the state, the authorities, should take care of its people. We believe that the right to housing enshrined in the Constitution should be exercised by every Ukrainian citizen. The Communist faction will vote in favour of this law, which provides for state funding and targeted long-term housing lending. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u55	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Prepare Anatoly Carmazin. Dear colleagues! I was asked by the Czernovecki People’s Deputy to include a direct broadcast on the street because there were representatives of the public there. What do you think, no objection? Please turn on the broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u56	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Of course, the bill that we are considering today is very important, especially with regard to the issues that we have discussed during this draft law. The problem of the absence of a home of its own today is very acute for our citizens and especially for young people. It has been shown that it is the cause of many divorces among young families, and it is the desire not to give birth to children in the face of the acute housing problem that has arisen in our country today that far from everyone can build their own home or buy it at the expense of the money they earn. So, isn't it the only possibility for such people to be able to do that is to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do that? So a borrower who doesn't have minors pays annual interest on a loan of three percent when he's less than 30 years old and 5 percent when he's over 30 years old at the time of the deal. I would like to point out that the position regarding the granting of credit is confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and according to this position the person has the right to receive such credit only once, and the amount of credit is counted at 21 square feet [21 sq m] of total housing per member of the family. And then there's 20 more squares. square feet [1 sq m] per family and the average cost of building a square metre has been approved by the State Committee of Construction, Architecture, and State Policy for each region. According to the Landbud for the capital, it's now about 1560 dollars per square meter. If the price of one square metre of housing exceeds the average or the housing area above the standard, the borrower pays for the additional cost of construction and the cost that exceeds the standard cost. Dear colleagues! Who can tell us where in Kiev today one square metre of housing in a new building or in a secondary market costs 1,560 dollars. At best, it's three times the cost, or maybe 7,000 dollars squared. So I think it's necessary to take into account his expert evaluation of one square metre of housing. The Communist faction supports Bill 1285, introduced by Communist Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, and urges our fellow MPs to support this bill. As the implementation of the bill will solve one of the most pressing problems of housing for citizens who need to improve living conditions according to state legislation and social protection, along with the creation of conditions to address social problems, housing financing will increase, in turn, to increase tax revenues to all levels of budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u57	Please, Carmazin, follow him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u58	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say right now that I don't see the opportunity to support the bill of government and I don't see it particularly because there's practically everything that's now regulated by legislation that needs to be clearly passed on to the government for consideration. I've highlighted in a special orange color for you, where everything is proposed to give to the government, a purely declarant bill of government. I don't know what we're holding the government for, if it's giving such completely empty bills, of 12 articles here. By comparison, the 29 articles were more developed, better developed, and without the mere declarations being written. Today, there are 1 million families and singles on the home front of Ukraine. How did our government provide them with housing in the past year? 1.6 were able to improve their living conditions. At this rate, it takes us 80 years to improve the lives of our citizens and abolish those lines if we go along with them. It is clear, then, that at the expense of the State budget, only 2.5 percent of the total number of dwellings entered has been introduced over a specified period. And the current pace of housing construction and the amount of money spent on housing from all levels does not provide a solution to the housing problem. That's why I have a comment on the MP's bill. But I'm going to ask you to vote for the bill that was drafted by our colleagues. But what I'd like to say is that now all of these institutions, including the government, and its local institutions are only campaigning. I want to show you what he's doing today at the Retirement Fund, the jellyfish. They're all saying, "Janukovich's government has decided to set up pension payments at this level." And that's all for the State Budget. Violations of the Presidential Election Act. This lie is spreading all over Ukraine. And the fact that prices have doubled, nobody's talking about it. For those of you who haven't seen it right now, I can even show you what's going on in the hospitals. It's from Zaporozhye County. The same from Dnipropetrovsky, in other areas. We vote for Yanukovich, because. And that's it. Speculating on the health of the citizens is directly based on medical findings. Your Honor, we have to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u59	From the spot, please, the bug, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u60	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Fast, Socialist faction, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues, our respected TV viewers, our radio viewers. Unlike our previous speakers, I will not advocate for Frost, for our candidate, because we already know that we have to vote for him. I just want to say a few points essentially. The thing is, this is really important to our country. It is therefore important not only for the sign that this problem exists but also for the fact that such issues are being resolved in all countries. There is only a difference, when this is resolved in other countries, then, as always, social housing is built for immigrants, that is, for those who have come to one country or another in search of employment or social protection. We have, as you can see, this problem is so complicated that we have to build social housing for our citizens. And, of course. For that, our faction will support this idea, although it must be done with bitterness. But there are a few points that need attention, and they are essential. Here in our bill, which is called the MP's, it's about the fact that the three lending mechanisms that we're looking at today are commercial, state and state-priced. So in our view, commercial lending should be excluded from this list because its principles are laid down in banking and banking legislation. That's the first thing you need to pay attention to. And you have to pay attention to the fact that if we place this kind of credit, then it goes into the manual management of the Cabinet of Ministers. And we can't figure out who's going to be in charge of the Cabinet of Ministers and what they're going to be doing here. And the second thing I'd like to pay attention to. You know, when this becomes practical, I suspect that all of our social homes, social housing, will be built somewhere far outside the city. Although we do have many places today in Kiev itself or in other large cities where it could be built. And the question is, generally, social housing, as it's built abroad, is these are standard boxes. Of course, it would somehow not fit any place or our capital. It means determining in this law how much money it takes to build social housing, to build it not only far outside the city, to build it in the center, and to make it look right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u61	Yes, thank you. Please, Chernewsky, one minute, for the reasons of the vote, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u62	Respectable National Deputies, revered Adam Ivanovich! I am grateful to the Communists, “Our Ukraine”, BUT and the socialists who supported the Law on the Elimination of Privileges and Privileges. It is directly related to the law that is being passed today. And I want to welcome these factions on behalf of the 3,000 people who gathered on the street. And I think it's that, well. As much as we could do to ensure that both this law and the law on deprivation of benefits and privileges would pass. In addition, I will hand over today several tens of thousands of signatures to the Head of the Supreme Council that people want this law to be voted on. So, I think we can also welcome those who gathered on the street because it's cold, and they're there to support our important decisions, it's not that simple. With regard to this law, I believe it is correct on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u63	Yeah, let's start with the definition of the fate of the bill. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the draft Housing Credit Act of Ukraine, registration number 1285. Please vote. [[11:04:23]] For-167 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 59, “Ukraine” - 3, Communist faction - 52, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 1, SPO - 18, Block Timoshenko - 1, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 13, NDP and PPU - 15, “Deminiciatives” - 0, “O” - 5. I put to the vote the first reading of the Housing Credit Act of Ukraine, registration number 1185-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:23]] For 176 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 76, "Ukraine" - 26, Communists - 0, Social Democrats, "Urrigible Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 18, Soccer - 18, Block Timoshenko-4, Alliance and "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 15, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 15, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 4. There's an offer: one more time. Let's put it on. Let's put it in the same order. I ask you to vote on re-reading the draft Ukrainian Housing Credit Act, registration number 1285. Please vote. [[11:06:31]] For 226 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 91, "Regions of Ukraine" - 17, Communists - 54, Social Democrats - 0, "Trug Ukraine" - 1, National Agrarian Party - 0, Socialist Party - 20, Block Timoshenko-5, "Soyuz" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, "Centre" - 15, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 15, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 7. In this way, Bill 1285 is sent back to re-reading. Dear colleagues, another statement has been made by two factions: the factions of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of Democratic Initiatives on the announcement of the break. [[united]] Well, I think we'll use the same procedure again, if we want to tell them what we're taking a break for, maybe we won't take a break. Who's from? Samofalov? Please, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I have an assignment from the six MP groups and factions to declare a statement. A statement. Recently, the leader of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenko of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, accused the Ukrainian authorities of an attack on his life. The Ukrainian authorities are thousands of people. Mr. Yushchenko has accused not of a serious crime separately, but of everyone in general, including the people's deputies who are members of the parliamentary-government coalition. This accusation was captured by members of his electoral headquarters and by supporting its media. The poisoning of Victor Yushchenk became the most important culmination of the entire campaign in the country. Victor Yushchenko and his headquarters tried to involve not only the political forces of Ukraine but the foreign medical institution. Yushchenka's statement is not ordinary populism, it's not just political rhetoric of bad taste. By his actions he celebrated, dishonored Ukraine in front of the world community. [[B in m in s a l in]] In such cases, questions arise. If they have such a presidential candidate, what country is it? In our eyes, Yushchenko clearly tries to ignore the established principles of the presumption of innocence and the collective responsibility to bring us back to the times that still exist in the people’s memory. A political figure who uses such struggles puts himself outside of serious politics. What Mr. Yushchenko is doing today and his environment is called "the theatre of absurdity." It was no coincidence that a foreign medical institution was publicly excluded from participating in a performance called "Jashchenka Poison". We heard a clear official statement, "no sign of poisoning." In the light of this continuation of the work created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the commission to test Mr. Yushchenk’s accusations turns out to be pointless and even provocative. There's no need for the Supreme Council to play the script of the Yushchenka election headquarters and the faction of Ukraine. The moral and political qualities shown by Viktor Yushchenko make you anxious to think about the near future of Ukraine in the event of its victory in the presidential elections. In the form of a struggle for democracy, we can be introduced into another anti-democracy experiment. The desire for a witch, the search for poisoners, can be a terrible day. It's already been in our history. We are convinced that the level of political legal culture that Victor Yushchenko is demonstrating does not allow him to claim any prominent place in the state hierarchy, not to mention the presidential office. Today, he accuses himself of his mortal sins of authority, calling himself the son of the same authority yesterday, accusing himself of even lesser sins of opposition. Is this a position of serious politics? It's even political-conjunctural. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's keep going. Who's from the faction? Please, a minute, a line, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u66	Dear friends! Our Ukraine faction, Valerius Assadchev. I think that now the previous speaker has only once confirmed to all the Ukrainian people that it was really an attack on Yushchenka, and that they really wanted to poison him, because, as they say, the thief's hat burns, that's the hat that stole their candidate and steals to this day. And now I want to say about medicine. So everyone knows very well that if Victor Andryovich hadn't been taken to Austria, he was talking about it as an outcome. But you know something else. And why don't you talk about how Leonidas Danilovich was treated in Baden-Baden, because in Ukraine it turns out that he couldn't even get the air conditioner right. Wasn't he a disgrace to our health care? So, dear friends, let us put an end to such methods of fighting! Let's feel sorry for each other. We're all deputies here and all state officials here! And let's feel sorry for Yashchenk. I think he'll be back soon, and he'll tell himself who and what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u67	Yes, dear fellows. The question is: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the area of mortgage lending. Registration number 6062. Reported by Jefimenko Leonid Vasilovich, Deputy Justice Minister. Please. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The need for adoption of the bill under consideration is primarily caused by the elimination of differences in the legislative acts that regulate this mortgage issue. First of all, it is imperative to reconcile in mortgage laws a terminological apparatus, to form the only approach to regulating legal relations related to the enforcement of liabilities in the area of mortgage lending. The bill proposes to amend 17 legislative acts. The bill avoids the subject of a mortgage contract, including the number of objects that may be the subject of mortgages excluded from property rights for real estate and unfinished construction, which are established by mortgage lending laws, consolidated mortgage and mortgage certificates, and the Financial and Credit Mechanisms and Property Management Act in the construction of housing and real estate transactions. This will be in line with the relevant provisions of the Law on Mortgage and Article 575 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. So it is determined that only the immovable property of an unfinished building or other immovable property that will become the property of a mortgage maker in the future can be the property of the mortgage maker. The bill also establishes the only approach to the enforcement of a mortgage item that takes into account the provisions of the Enforcement Law. The bill provides for the exclusion of mandatory financial risk insurance provided by laws. Because according to the Insurance Act, the purpose of insurance is to protect the property interests of citizens and legal persons in the event of certain events of insurance contributions. In doing so, the main signs of insurance are the probability and chance of an accident, i.e. insurance cannot function as an additional source of financing, construction, and construction. The project is also proposed to establish that changes and additions to the mortgage contract are made by entering into a separate contract that is subject to notarial certification. The bill also provides for the supplementation of article 3 of the Securities and Exchange Act by such a type of securities as a certificate of a real estate operation fund. The project also includes amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Privatization of State Property, Privatization of Small State Enterprises, Minor Privatisation in the Complementation of the List of Legal Actions Committed in respect of Property of State or Municipal Property, on which a privatisation decision has been made, or which is included in the list of objects subject to privatization. The adoption of this bill will help to avoid collisions in the application of the Law on Mortgage and other laws governing legal relations related to the enforcement of liabilities in the area of mortgage lending. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u69	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Yes. Please sign up. Yes, please point to the board. Three minutes. Manchulenko, follow by the Droguntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u70	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. To some extent, this bill resonates with problems that have been tried in the draft Housing Credit Act. Again, I am interested in this incision of voters who live in mountain settlements and fall under the benefits defined by the law and in rural areas, because the problems discussed in the previous bill are particularly relevant to this category of our citizens. I'd like to hear from you what the bill is proposing in this particular area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. As I said in my report, the bill provides for amendments to 19 legislative acts in the area of mortgage lending. The purpose of this bill is, first of all, not to predict any benefits, any new instruments of mortgage lending. The purpose of the bill is to create a uniformly terminologically understandable apparatus of those laws that regulate the subject of the mortgage today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u72	Please, the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u73	The honourable reporter, both from your report and from the previous discussion when this law was passed, shows that you view the mortgage as a goldfish that executes the demands of the workers. By the way, can you please tell me what a scientist at the National Academy of Sciences can do to get a housing loan? During, let's say, 20 years, what can he bet? What else does he have besides poor wages? He doesn't have any real estate, no land, no apartment--nothing. What does this give us?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. Regarding this bill, the Institute of Mortgage now exists both in the Civil Code and in a number of other legislative acts. But mortgage lending must first be improved. And this project is specifically designed to improve mortgage lending mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u75	Quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u76	I'm taking pictures.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u77	Have a seat, please. Here we have a report from the Committee of Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a draft Act amending some of the legislation on mortgage lending. This bill is aimed at resolving the differences between the individual positions of mortgage laws, mortgage lending transactions with consolidated mortgages, mortgage certificates, financial credit mechanisms and property management in housing and real estate transactions, amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts that have been adopted jointly with regulated laws and other legislative acts relating to reconciliation of both the terminology and the resolution of substantive issues. A bill developed by the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out the tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our tasks. The bill provides for the development of a single approach to the regulation of legal relations related to the enforcement of obligations in the mortgage lending system of housing. At the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the project can be adopted on the basis of further observations. The committee believes that although the bill is essentially technical in nature from the outset, i.e. it harmonizes the rules with other laws, on the other hand, it will essentially address the practical issues that the entire mortgage lending system, the financial credit mechanisms for housing and other real estate operations needs to be addressed. The committee supported the planned project at the September 21st meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. A draft decision of the Supreme Council is given to you. Thank you for your attention. Please support our committee's proposal and vote, support in the first reading. And the last thing I'd like to say is, Comrade Drogunzov was asking a question, and what do we do, let's say, a scientist who doesn't have property to get a mortgage? The very essence of the mortgage is that you don't need the property. There's this property, this apartment that's going to be built. And that makes it possible for a person, remember how cooperatives were, remember how cooperatives were, after 15-20 years, paid off, allowing a person to pay 15-20 years for the value of this property. I can tell you that without making this law compatible, this previous law on social housing will not work either, because there is a provision in that previous law for subsidisation of mortgage loans, i.e. interest on mortgage loans. So we have a perfunctory request, let's support, let's base this bill, work with Minust, and take it back to work on January 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u79	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Please sit down, I understand that you have made such a clear statement that everyone understands. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yes, then, please, let's take ten minutes to discuss and accept. Karmazin, follow Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u80	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Would it be necessary to enact this law if other laws were not to be allowed to be ignored by legal techniques? Would it need it, this law? No, I wouldn't have to, I'm answering right now. Why? Because now we want to settle the differences between the mortgage laws, mortgage lending transactions by consulting, consolidated mortgage debt and mortgage certificates, the financial and credit mechanisms for the management of property in the construction of housing and real estate transactions, the amendment of certain legislative acts: the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay or recognition of his bankruptcy, the insurance, the notary, the Endorsian regulations and many other laws. This is because the government does not approach legislation comprehensively, not professionally. And this bill. I don't know why they didn't say today that he wasn't far and wide correcting all the situations. And so I would like to say that we can't accept amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences to article 163, 255. Why? In 255, it is proposed to impose the obligation to file administrative records on financial authorities. Who Are the Financial Authorities Today? This is the Communion, in which more than 12,000 people were born today. There was no such organ at all. They've made themselves right now, such a healthy body! Who are these financial authorities? So maybe let's write it another way. I am firmly opposed to making changes to article 26 of the Law on Restoration or Recognition of Bankruptcy because it regulates the general issue of the formation of the liquidation mass. And the issue of exclusion from this mass of mortgage assets involves not all legal persons, but just those who manage the building funds. And you can't do that, you can't rule it out. Next. I am firmly opposed to the fact that in the Final Positions it is proposed to make changes to paragraph two of this chapter, because after they are adopted the whole point changes. From the position that governs the resolution of conflicts between this law and other legislative acts at the time of its adoption, it is transformed into a permanent rule on the composition of legislation that cannot be found under the rules of the law in the Final Provisions of the Law. So let this law be a teaching to us, just as it does not have to be prepared by law. And you only have to accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u81	The word has been given to the national MP Mironenko. After him, Suchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u82	Mironenko, Crimea, the Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! Of course, there is a need to deal with mortgage lending issues, but let us draw attention to the following points, which unfortunately are not being addressed. First, the bill provides for the possibility of losing their own housing, including those who have housing, who want to improve their housing conditions. Will such cases be common? Yes, this will be facilitated by the capitalist orientation of the 19th-century model, which generates looting, poverty of the population, economic instability, the opportunity to lose work, income at any time. No one doubts that. Secondly, the hope of helping severely needy populations is being used by the powerful supporters of capitalism, who have been in power since 1991 to date. And I repeat, no matter what factions they're in, they're oligarchic, they're following one another. by a candidate for presidents or a candidate for a second candidate. These people are actually using people's woes to relive private bankers, because if a person becomes insolvent, and that's for sure, we can see, and very real, bankers will get the property of these poor people. What do we suggest in this case? First, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote in favour of the bill and insists that the public course be changed for the benefit of the entire population, not the narrow part of the population. To put an end to capitalism, we must return to the socialist progressive path that many European countries have followed, including, as I have said many times, Sweden and so on. It is necessary, and I think, that this will be ensured by the election to the Presidents of Ukraine of a truly popular candidate, Petar Nikolaevich Simonenko, to provide a public banking system that will ensure that the population and enterprises, i.e. the economy, have access to affordable credits to address vital problems for the population and the economy. Without it, nothing good will happen to us, only the same proceeds of the oligarchs who are now trying to preserve power will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u83	The word is given by the people’s deputy Suhi. Get Matvienkov ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u84	Dear National Deputies! This room has repeatedly referred to the extreme acuteity of the complex and running social problem of market transformation — the problems of providing more than just young families with housing. The former ranks of large industrial enterprises are not working, the queues of the Rajad administrations, the city housing councils are barely moving forward. We need, and this bill, including, at least, giving people a clear perspective and giving people hope for the better, because as of today, the absence of such a perspective, the lack of faith in tomorrow is halting not only the processes of democratization but the creation of civil society. The government bill is valid. I want to support my colleague Teryochin and like it or not. And if speaking out of this rostrum says he's against the mortgage, let them offer their scheme to give people housing, who should build, for what money, and how to buy. Whether someone likes it or not, only through mortgages will we allow people to improve their living conditions. So market transformations, including in the housing market, have to go under the control of the state. The mistake we made at the beginning of market transformations was that of wild, stupid liberalisation. Market transformations are to be made by the state, to be carried out under state control. I pay particular attention to the proposals for improving the basic law on financial credit mechanisms and property management in housing and real estate operations. And the rights of colleague Terhochin, when he points out that the subject of the mortgage is an object of unfinished construction, is a immovable property that will become property in the future. Therefore, it is vital that the construction fund be supervised by public authorities. I would like to emphasize once again: conceptually this position is correct. We have to. We are here in this room to write such bills to provide social security, as little risk as possible. Right, this bill will only work if we improve our housing policy in the single Housing Code. So far, we've been torn apart and torn apart by some extraordinary steps. The approach to this problem must be complex. And I very much ask my fellow national MPs: don't make fun of people, stop making mention of the presidential candidates here! This is about the mortgage. This is about improving the existing basic bill and its harmonization with other bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u85	Please, Matvienkov and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u86	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear friends! It is likely that the draft legislation is of concern and concern, since today it is not a simple situation at all. You know very well that today those with funds have solved their housing problems long ago. Indeed, those who do not have the means continue to stay on the state line and wait for housing, despite the fact that they all clearly say that it will not be understood and understood when they wait for it. In the market, there are the following circumstances: the secondary housing market is shrinking, it is flooded, and there is no decent housing on the periphery. There is therefore absolutely no prospect. The proposed bill must, of course, be adopted, adopted on first reading with the bills under consideration, but it must be made clear that such issues as mortgages cannot be without fear, and they must be clearly spelled out, and the game mechanism and rules must be clear and understandable. I mean, a person who plays by these rules has to have a clear understanding that even if he is, something, God forbid this loan will happen, he and his family will not be on the street. Because he doesn't have a choice to set up something like the apartment he's taking, he just doesn't have, and he has to have guarantees that he's with his family, and I stress again, he won't be on the street. Therefore, the two bills that had been passed and were considered in the complex, the lending mechanism and the mortgage mechanism, and should be accepted in the complex. But if the mortgage mechanism makes sense, there's housing, and you have to give it up if you don't return the money, there's unfortunately a lot of questions and difficult questions under the loan mechanism. We talked about commercial banks that would participate in the lending mechanism, concessional, long-term, low-interest. Who's gonna get these banks to deal with these issues today? We have adopted draft laws on several occasions, and will say so, we have obliged them to deal with these issues, but the matter has not gone further. That's question number one. Second moment. The benefit system that's been written in these banks: in one child you lose, so to speak, percent, you don't pay a percentage, up to 5 children -- you can't even pay the loan back. Who's gonna make up for all this? Therefore, the consideration of these two bills requires a serious approach. And most of all. We are well aware of the long-standing need for a new Housing Code. All these issues that are being addressed here, and guarantees that a person will not be evicted from that apartment, and guarantees that he has the right to the housing to which he has moved and has crossed the threshold, must be defined in the new housing code. We cannot live and enter a mortgage system, we cannot introduce a credit system, and we cannot leave housing legislation at the level of the 1960s. It's already screaming, and today it's demanding. That is why I am in favour of considering not even two bills today, but three, and all three were adopted on first reading in order to allow them to be finalized in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Question completed. We're going to determine the composition of the bill. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on mortgage lending. Registration number 6062. [[11:36:04]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 65, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communists, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, Socialists - 0, Block Timoshenko - 9, Alliance, "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 2, NDP, "Industrials and Entrepreneurs" - 10, Deminitative - 0, postfraction - 3. We're listening to the bill on fish farming and the protection of living water. There are two bills. But since the honourable colleagues, the Parliamentary Bill 3124 and one co-reporter from the committee, let us then listen to Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. And now we're going to hear Bill 3124-1 from the Ministry of Agrarian Politics as deputy minister. Please. There are changes. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. According to a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 13 November 2000 on the concept of the development of fisheries in Ukraine and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Our Agricultural Policy has drafted a Ukrainian Fisheries Bill. The Fisheries Act is the main legislative instrument for the fisheries sector. The main purpose of its adoption is to ensure the conditions for the permanent operation and development of the fisheries sector, the state complex. There is no normative act in Ukraine that sets out the legal, economic, social, and organisational principles of fishing activities in the state. The bill provides for the main directions for the development of fisheries, including the conservation of fishing activities in open areas of the world's oceans in exclusive economic zones of foreign countries, the intensification of the industry in the Asia-Black Sea Basin, the inland waterways of aquaculture development, the increase in the production of fish stocks and the production of fish products. This bill is aimed at the implementation of State policies on the development of fisheries, strengthening the productive and scientific and technical potential of the fisheries sector, coordinating the activities of central and local executives and local governments, enterprises, institutions and organisations to address the most important problems and create the necessary legal norms and economic conditions for the functioning of the State's fisheries complex. The implementation of the provisions of the draft Law will ensure that conditions are in place to increase the impact of water living resources, increase the production of fish products with the aim of guaranteeing the country's food security, and satisfy the needs of the population with fish products. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Yes, there is a desire to ask a question. Please sign in. Yeah, three minutes. Karmazin, follow by Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u90	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear reporter! I'd like to ask you two short questions. First, what's the difference between your bill and the MP's project? And secondly, don't you see that this law conflicts with the recently adopted fish law, other aquatic living resources and food production of them, that's February 6, 2003, the adopted law. But somehow we're not making any changes there, and we're adopting a new law, and now you're proposing, more specifically, a new law. And maybe you just have to implement those laws that already exist and ask questions about fishing quotas, including intergovernmental arrangements that don't exist today, and our fishermen today are responsible for themselves, and the government is not behind them. I speak for Antarctica in this case. I was approached by the workers and said all the words, pass it on to Yanukovich. I'm handing them over to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. I think we've been consulting here. In principle, on the first issue of differences there are almost none. We agreed that on the first reading, we take as a basis, and then we make one out of two bills. Well, I get it, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u92	Please, Matvienkov, follow him to the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u93	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Yuri Fedorovich! Tell me, please, is it me from this rostrum, repeatedly speaking to you, asking the same question: are we in a position today to regulate the licensing, quota and control of fish or are we in no position? Or let's all stand up and say we can't. Why are we, on several occasions, asking the question that let's review the licenses issued. The licensing mechanism is beginning, and the situation is further exacerbated. Those firms that have two containers receive huge quotas for fish, those that are stable in the production of small children do not receive these quotas. So when will this abyss end? Is it the Power or the poachers that guide us to the sea? Then let's raise our hands and say we can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u94	You're here. Thank you for asking. And you're 100% right here. And I think if there's any suggestions, I'm ready, considering that we're going to report the question, we're going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u95	Questions. Sergey Ivanovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u96	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please tell the honourable reporter why we, well, I get it, there, on the pork, on the beef, on some other products, the prices of jumps go up many times. Why do we soar in prices for fish, for this gift of God, for this gift of the sea, or for fish caught in inland waters? What are the reasons: Are nets rare, or are fuels expensive, or do we not know how to catch, well, what is it? Not only have people stopped eating meat but there is no fish, because there is no money for it. There'll be trouble eating fish soon!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. You're 100% right. Why: per capita we now consume 12 kilograms of fish, and we need 19. That's why we're asking for the law to be passed, to put order here, in this matter. And I think we can still put order into this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite you to the rostrum of Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Please, Yuri Petrovich. From the committee and from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u99	Yuri Solomatin, secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster I have a report to make at the request of my colleagues, who are the authors of this bill: Šwidenko, Samowovski, and Shershun. And also to set out the point of view, the position of our committee. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, today’s water conservation situation, as well as the fishing industry, is gaining dangerous proportions. This calls for a comprehensive legislative solution to the issue of the establishment of a system of fisheries management, the protection and management of living water resources, and, more importantly, the protection of their habitats, or water objects themselves. It should be noted that there is no legal legislation in Ukraine today that defines the characteristics of legal, economic, social and organizational principles in the complex, the protection of water living resources. In the territorial sea, on the continental shelf of Ukraine, in the exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine, in the exclusive maritime economic zones of foreign nations and in the open waters of the world ocean. So far, two bills have been introduced to address these issues. This is a draft law on fish farming and the protection of water living resources introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Švidenk, Samoblovski, Sheršun and the draft law on fisheries introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is later by the deputy. [[Registration number 3124 of November 10, 2003]] [[Registration number 3124-1 of February 25, 2004]] Both bills have been worked out in detail. However, Law 3124 is more complex in dealing with both fishing and water conservation. The draft law submitted by the people’s deputies in exchange for what has already been stated is already well under way. Practically all the substantive observations and proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues in the amended bill are included. And the additional proposals for a bill of scientific expertise and comments and suggestions that have come, and I am confident that they will come from the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee and the authors will take it into account when it comes to the second reading. According to the authors of both bills, their implementation does not require additional costs of the State budget. However, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, in its decision, noted that both draft laws would have some impact on the budget spending and could be implemented from the new budget period. Taking into account that the draft Law on Fisheries and the Protection of Water Resources, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Švidenk, Samoblovski, Sheršun, differs from a better technical and legal implementation, a more comprehensive and comprehensive solution to the issue of the protection and use of living water resources, has already been thoroughly worked out with regard to the observations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the interested central executive authorities, the Committee proposes to adopt it as a basis. [[registration 3124]] In preparing for the second reading, the committee is working on a draft law that takes into account the provisions of the Fisheries Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the comments and suggestions made by other subjects of the legislative initiative. Dear National Deputies! Such a law is essential and its implementation will enable the protection and reproduction of water resources, create favourable conditions for their balanced use, and increase the production of fish and other products. Thank you for your attention. Please support and accept the draft law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u100	Thank you. What are we going to talk about? Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's talk for 10 minutes and make a decision on this. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u101	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština If in 2001 total catches of fish and seafood amounted to 333 thousand tons, in 2002-273, and in the past they were 230. Such a fall in production may not be acceptable. It is primarily related to the aging of a fleet with a technical weariness of 90 percent and an average life expectancy of more than 25 years. Another reason for the decline in production rates is the shortage of marine and ocean vessels. Today, there are only 16 vessels operating, while more than 20 vessels in Ukrainian ports are awaiting financing for repairs, and several vessels are arrested and cannot even be sold for scrap metal. What were we up to? Even planes and ships are taken for debts! They're about to take over the debts and all of Ukraine! Earlier, fish catches in inland waters covered 25 percent of the country’s needs, and from 313,000 tons in 1990, fish catches decreased by 107 this year. At the same time, 30 million babies launched into the inland watershed last year will be on average in 10 years, and domestic watercourses will be able to provide an average of only 20 percent of the country’s population. I want to say a few words about rural waters. Ukraine’s land code provides for the right of private property not only to land but also to water objects. But while the rural population of Ukraine was doing research on pies, both land and property. Waters that were originally owned by the citizens of the fishing grounds were quietly plunging watercourses into separate private gardens. It was only when the wept baby began to complain to his parents that his uncle had broken his leg because it was his bet. We Communists have repeatedly defended the rights of peasants in this regard. We emphasized in particular that the Earth Code provides for both the right of ownership of water objects and the right to rent them. We also warned that before renting the stakes, the village council should announce the equipment of the locals, since the stake is communal property of the local community. And the village council must exercise water control and prevent the pond from becoming a marsh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Vitaly will be the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u103	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, the suffering Ukrainian people. You were told today from this rostrum, without answering my questions, that the average Ukrainian consumes 12 kilograms of fish. That's absolutely not true. Because he's not getting 12 today, he's getting four kilograms of fish on average. It's possible that a government official can get 12 kilograms of fish. And that's what makes the nation sick, that's why the nation, including this, is dying. And so let's call things our names. Is this about the absence of this law? I'm going to say right now that the adoption of this law, one and the other, will absolutely not change anything, because such a law is simply not necessary. There's a lot of laws that regulate totally Eastern relations. I'm calling you. The Animal World Act, if you're interested in this fish. About protecting the environment, about fish, other aquatic living resources, and about food production. Why is there no change? But if this law proposes that individual requirements be made for the vessels of the fishing fleet, so called in article 53 of this government project and technical supervision here you write, and here how to do it, I want to say that we have the Ukrainian Code of Merchandise Navigation, where these things are foreseen. And that's why I think that the introduction of a law where there are situations that duplicate the similar positions of other legislative acts that I have just said will only complicate the situation with regard to the use of existing laws. In fact, the problem is quite different, the problem is that Kerchribprom was completely destroyed, and you know it, and the ships that were ripped apart were, destroyed today, and all the ships destroyed, the fish farms destroyed. Why were they destroyed? Because there is absolutely no concern of the state, and more specifically, of the government, as it is called today. Why is the price of fish rising? And because the price of fuel has risen twice on the world market, because quotas have to be bought, and quotas have to be bought in those countries that are buying them around the world. And our government has done nothing, no deal has been signed in Africa or with the Russian Federation in the Far East, where our courts used to work. That's why I'm against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u104	Please turn on Vitaly Sibk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. A fast, socialist faction of Ukraine, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues, I think we are looking at the right question for today, but we are, as always, facing a dilemma. The dilemma lies in which project to give priority, is it to a member of parliament who, unfortunately, was not represented today, or to the government? And so today we see that there are some polarities. But what I'd like to say is that both of these bills, even if they didn't represent one of them, they have these flaws: the flaws that here, in the bill, prefer to question fish or fish farming right in the oceans and in the seas, and unfortunately nothing touches those who have submitted this bill for consideration. So the farming that existed in the '70s, the very powerful agriculture, these are our inner ponds. Today, what happened was, it was looted, it was stolen, it was distributed to individual parts. Not only are they not engaged in these farms today, but they are simply fishing or organizing fishing. I'm not saying it has one, it doesn't have some kind of positive plan, but it's totally true because the fish has gone down like tens of times. And here's the question of how we're going to look at it. and for internal affairs, and for internal betting, and for ocean and sea affairs. To whom will all of this belong? So that's how it's made up that there's a government property for domestic stakes that's very badly controlled today, and there's private property that applies to individual buildings and so on. And there's still loads because those areas that cover all these farms can be leased to someone for 49-99 years. And this is the kind of shortness that exists that allows you to actually work out the right pattern of this structure. So I think these bills are both that we're looking at, they're important, they're important, but they're essential, but they're also very much to work out the topic that we're talking about inside our bets in order not only to rely on weather, to fine our ships somewhere in the ocean, but also to be sure that we're here in the right way, as in other worlds, for example, Germany, Germany, if we run our farms properly, we're going to be provided with fish that we can grow in ponds. And I think it's appropriate here to also point out that our expert management made the observation. Sadly, the report did not say anything about this. They also involve very important problems. I think our faction in general will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u106	Thank you. From the motives of Matthew. Then Tereshuk. And we'll vote. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u107	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Respectable colleagues, distinguished deputies. I'd like to focus your attention on something. No law will solve the problem until our seas are square. Don't we know that? Who is in charge of these squares today: an inspection or a ministry? We understand perfectly. No one deals with fish stocks at all. The allocation of quotas has become a farce, one person's opinion, unfortunately, of Alomov. Let me give you a specific example. The combination of Ilic, which almost took over all the fishing collops from Russia to Zaporozhye region, receives a quota for the catch of 190 tons of bulls. The Ravhvila company, which has four vessels, receives a quota of 650 tonnes of bullfish. What is it?Oh, my God! Second question. The scientific institutes have practically taken poaching to their roof without vessels or fins, so to speak, the roof under which poachers work is caught by an unprecedented fish. In addition, we pay these farms, so to speak, for the maintenance of the security economy. The work of the fisheries authorities, the fisheries authorities, the environmental inspections that work for today, who are subordinated to them and who are responsible for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u108	Tereshuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u109	Sergey Tereshuk, 195 Township District Dear colleagues, 40 percent of the meat - fish balance is fish products. At the same time, we have an annual increase in the consumption of fish products by 10 to 15 percent. But there's a problem: 70 percent of the fish products are coming from abroad, and the internal production is going down. If we produced 900,000 tons in 1990, 280,000 tons of fish products were actually produced in 2003. There are many reasons. One reason is the fleet. Whether he's renting our businesses or he's in the state, the fleet is now getting older, 90 percent dead. If we don't build ships at this rate, we're going to have 15 specialized vessels left in 2010. We won't have a fishing fleet in the state. Of course, bills do not solve all existing problems. But they can still produce some results. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u110	Yes, Mironenko, please. Do you refuse? One minute, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u111	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! In our view, the views of the members of the Communist Party of Ukraine, these bills must be taken as a basis, because they are strictly necessary for the domestic economy, the fishing industry, to ensure the food security of Ukraine and to ensure the livelihood of the population. However, I would like to draw your attention personally to the need for a second reading to strengthen the part of the second reading bill that will address the development of the fisheries sector. Free importation of domestic fish by industrial vessels, fish products, which will not only contribute to the development of the fishing industry, but also to a reduction in the price of fish products. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the need to change the focus of the State. Several laws have been adopted in accordance with the concept of Ukrainian fisheries development, including the construction of vessels.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u112	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. Let's move on to the vote. The first is the draft legislation on fish farming and the protection of aquatic living resources. Authors of Švidenko, Samowovski, Shershun The committee proposes to accept this project as a basis. This proposal is based on a vote. Please vote. [[12:03:41]] For-129 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Fisheries Act, registration number 3124-1, government project. On the basis of that, please vote. [[12:04:11]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Law projects. [[N o M e s s a ……]] I'll put it to a vote. Attention, please. - about re-reading the project by number 3124, by Šwidenko, Samowovski, Shershun. Please vote. To read again. [[12:04:45]] For 128
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u113	For -123, the decision is not made. I'm voting for re-reading the government project 3124-1. [[12:05:09]] For 118
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u114	For - 113, the bill was rejected. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 3, Ukraine - 0, Communists - 57, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 0, Ukraine - 1, Center - 3, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 12, Deminiciative - 0, non-fractional - 3. Yes, before we announce the recess, I ask the Secretariat for the results of the daily vote to prepare the information that we will print in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u115	We're continuing our work. The draft Law on State Land cadastre is announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee, National MP Tomic Ivan Fedorovich. The focal point will be the head of the Committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Vladimir Lechchenko. It is suggested that this is the time limit for consideration: for the reporter, up to 5 minutes for the report and for the question by analogy, for the co-rapporteur also 5 minutes for the report and for the answers, for the discussion and for the decision-making, 10 minutes for the co-rapporteur. Is there no objection? Please, Ivan Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on the State Land cadastre is prepared to implement article 204 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Land Code with a view to establishing the legal framework for activities in the field of the State Land cadastre and ensuring that land-cadastral activities are carried out. The need for the adoption of the Act is also stipulated by the laws of Ukraine on the State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations, since the State registration of immovable property rights is based on the cadastre number and cadastre plan of the land area. The main purpose of the law is to establish a legal framework, conduct land-cadastral activities, maintain a State-owned cadastral system, an effective mechanism for guaranteeing land ownership rights and State administration of land resources through the prism of land-cadastral information and the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Land Code on the rational use and protection of land, the development of the land market and the improvement of the land tax system. The draft Ukrainian Law on the State Land Cadastre consists of eight chapters and 62 articles, which define the legal and organizational principles for the conduct of land-cadastral activities, the introduction of a national land cadastre, the use of cadastral information aimed at the protection of property rights and the use of land, rational use and land protection. The draft Law highlights the notions of a system of State land cadastre of objects and entities and its basic principles and purposes. The State Land Cadastre is defined as all land and land within the territory of Ukraine, the authority of state authorities and local self - government authorities in the field of the State Land Cadastre, the content of the State Land Cadastre, and the three - level system. All elements of the State Land cadastre, the composition of information and documents of the State Land cadastre, the arrangements for the reporting of the State Land cadastre and the officials responsible for the national registration and accounting of land. The bill provides a list of legislation that is necessary for its implementation. The bill is implemented at the expense of the State and Local Budgets. Dear National Deputies! This bill could have been adopted long ago in this room, without the first vice-premier's request for a bill that worked jointly with two committees and was agreed upon for its consideration. Therefore, in the light of this situation, the drafters consider the adoption of such a law to be one of the fundamental laws on land law. The law will create favourable conditions for the creation of a system to guarantee state ownership of land, promote investment activity, support the tax system and mortgage in terms of lending. The main scientific and expert management is making their comments. And it is clear that these observations, both technical and legal, can be taken into account. This bill supports the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that the biggest issue about this bill is that they call for the right to register land. I emphasize to the stenographer the question, because the law was being developed when the law on the registration of things and real estate was not adopted. Now, according to this law, the registration issue will be reconciled with both the Land Administration Act and the Land Assessment Act. We need to adopt this law and a number of other laws on the state’s mortgage bank. Therefore, the Agrarian Policy Committee has consistently supported the adoption and development of the land-based legislative framework, and at its meeting on June 23, the bill was also considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for John Fedorovich Tomic? Please sign up for questions. Yes, the name of the people’s deputies is on the board. Roman Tchac. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u118	Roman Tkak, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Ivan Fedorovich. Clearly, the Law on the State Land cadastre should be adopted in the first reading. After all, you've made it very clear that it's going to go as well as in that law. But I do have a question. The registration of the organs of the State Commission, as in that law, or to some extent to give to the authorities and authorities of local self-government? There's a land book and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u119	Thank you very much. An extremely important question. And I think it's the position of local self-government in the law that we have in terms of conduct, the book of registration of state acts, and. books that local self - government authorities should carry out. All other matters relating to registration, I stress once again, must be settled in accordance with the Law on Registration of Property Rights and Other Real Estate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u120	Alexander Pecklusenko, please, the faction of Ukraine. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u121	Ivan Fedorovich, it is very important for me and many of my colleagues that you report this law. I just know that you're a real patriot and a professional. At the same time, we have communicated with you on many occasions. The most important thing is that this law does not affect the interests of the most important people in the village of pensioners. That's the first one. Second. You know very well that agrarian monopolies are growing in the country today. Our job with you is to give movement to small and medium-sized economies. Is this law fulfilling this task?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u122	I thank you very much for that question and for your position. I clearly support, and the position of the committee concerns the development of rural farming, those that take the most into account rural development and job creation, especially in this situation. It's a law about farming subjects, their economies. It's not direct. But the law in plain language is the sick person's outpatient card, which is what starts the registration system from the appearance of the owner, from the appearance of the user. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to adopt this bill in order to make full use and order of our land relations. And he's sort of associated with the laws and he's reporting on the assessment of the land, on the land structure, on the registration of real estate rights, and in the complex, he's responding exactly to the creation of a normal legal base to protect landowners, for a transparent registration system and for mortgages and for the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u123	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u124	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear reporter, would you please tell me how this law will affect the development of agriculture? The thing is, you know, we have farms that don't grow very much. 45 thousand. All over Ukraine, and that's -- it's a solid number. And then there was another process going on -- preparing for the creation of the big latifunds. So how will this law contribute to the development of latifunds, forms of farming on our Ukrainian land? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u125	Thank you very much. In fact, as far as agriculture is concerned, they are in a difficult socio-economic situation. The question was repeatedly considered in this room. As far as farming is concerned, I wanted to point out that for the first time in an independent Ukraine, more than 500 farms were reduced in the first half of this year compared to last year. It's talking about the symptoms of a complicated, socio-economic crisis in the Ukrainian village. The bill is in the system of land laws and laws that should regulate land economic relations in the field of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u126	Yes, Hirschfeld Anatoly, please. Peanut, please. Sergei Tereshuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u127	Sergey Tereshuk, National Agrarian Party. Dear Ivan Fedorovich! Clearly, this law is necessary. We can't talk about any land market until this bill is passed, especially since it comes out of the Earth Code. But I have a few questions. One is that we have adopted a law on the state registration of property rights and their limitations. The thing is, there's a check-in and a land plot and a real estate that's on this land. In this bill, you propose to separate. You make separate registers of state acts and separate registers of property. Will this not complicate the registration process and not create a conflict in this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u128	Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, for the second reading, I believe that we have, as has been the case with many national MPs, come to our attention, we will carefully study and resolve these issues. It is quite clear that the law relating to the registration of property rights and immovable property should be the primary in the area of registration. In this law, only what applies to the initial registration of local self - government authorities should be provided for in this law. And with regard to other issues, distinguished national MPs, from other national deputies came suggestions, comments. We worked with the State Commission on the past law, and the past law was already effective enough to adopt it. I said the reason. And that can be the reason now that the second reading can be removed as soon as possible, and such a law is essential for effective land protection, efficient agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u129	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich, time is up. Let's go to the report. The word has the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has carefully considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Land cadastre, registration number 5394, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Tomic, Gladys, Zubc, Tkač. It should be noted that this is a purely technological bill. Its practical implementation will enable it to have a comprehensive characterization of any land area as well as land resources in general. I emphasize that, in addition to the traditional issues of the State Land Cadastre that took place earlier, this draft law, in the form of a first reading, is also aimed at regulating relations related to the land market process, that is, trade in land. According to the review, the committee notes that the draft law needs to be finalized in line with Ukraine's Land Code, Ukraine's laws: land assessment, land administration, government securities, and state registration of real estate rights and their limitations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of comments, but proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. It also supports this proposal by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. In view of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is invited to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u131	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, any questions to the head of the subcommittee? Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, I share your point of view that the bill is needed and sufficiently developed. Can you please just tell me what's causing the fact that we're only now adopting this bill? Because it's obvious that the loss of the state from the timely adoption of this bill is measured, I don't know, by billions and tens of billions of dollars, and then when are you ready to prepare and report this law for adoption as a whole as a law? [[It's what I appreciate so much about what happened during this time, until there was such a lack of talent, a lack of mastery.]] How ready is the committee, and how aware is it of its historic mission to the people of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u133	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. Well, that question probably isn't up to me, which is why it's so late. The matter was that the Supreme Council was considering a similar draft law on the State Land Cadastre in February 2004, it was adopted in the second. It was not accepted on second reading, so the authors introduced a new one. How long will the process of processing last? Well, he'll be clear with the Supreme Council Rules, they'll probably make some comments, the committee'll process them quickly and offer them a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u134	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u135	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I would like to ask you from the point of view of the conservation of natural reserves. An example. In Kiev, there is a festivities of Feofania. It was in the hands of the National Academy of Sciences. Yet, at the invitation of the Kyiv City Administration, to begin to clarify the boundaries between the fair of Feofani and the city. Finally, the reserve’s area was reduced. The forests of 15 percent or 20 percent were immediately occupied by modern rulers called oligarchs, who are in fact modern - day short - lived millionaires. Please tell me, what can this law do to preserve the natural reserves that are the acquisitions of the entire Ukrainian people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. Dear Yuri Petrovich! The point is that the issues raised by you are governed by a wide range of laws already in force, and it may be necessary to implement more or more clearly the Law on State Control, which also acts on the part of the State Committee on Land Resources and Other Authorities. And this bill, the essence of it, it gives a description of every land area, deep, comprehensive characteristics and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u137	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u138	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Volodymyr Alexiovich! Without a doubt, the earth’s cadastre is needed; the earth’s assessment should be objective; we should know what we possess. But I'm concerned about your committee's position on breaking the veto on, let's say, selling the land moratorium, moving this date for at least 10 years. I think that what is being blocked today by a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by some factions is primarily related to the fact that they do not want us to overcome this veto and stop the sale of land. Because, according to Alexander Moroz, landowners will be both in Canada and in Israel, in Ukrainian land, and in America, and in Germany, and so on. You said that this Earth cadastre already has moments to deal with and sell land. How and how will this affect you? Should I vote or should I vote? Will you personally vote or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! The point is, you said the ground assessment first. This bill does not appreciate it. There is already the Law on earth assessment. With regard to overcoming the veto, we Communists are firmly opposed to trade in land, and it is in Ukraine's Presidential Program that it is clearly stated that the people who live and work on it should rule the earth. And, of course, we're going to make sure that the moratorium is extended to the land trade at least. As far as this bill is concerned, as the author has already reported, it will be further developed and certain market issues and so forth, and they will be removed in view of the fact that another law has already settled this. How technological. This is a technological law, draft law, we're going to vote for it. Thank you. And quality is another thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u140	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u141	Really, it's good, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u142	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko The Honourable Head of the Committee! Could you give us a few basic reasons why this bill didn't go through the first reading in February? Now, you see, he's back in October. And you can see that there's probably some of the flaws in it that were there. Indeed, chapter six requires a more detailed lecture, and this has even been referred to by the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority. We're going to vote in favour, but the committee needs to be seriously worked out to be not only a separate law, but closely related to the Earth Code, which also needs to be polished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u143	I thank you for asking. As the drafters have pointed out, National Deputy Tomic, one of the reasons that he was not accepted in February, was a letter from the First Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, to the Supreme Council, to postpone his consideration there. There were other reasons. The thing is, once again, I'm saying that there are elements of the land market. Some of the national deputies did not vote in this regard. With regard to the quality of the draft law for second reading, this depends, of course, on all the national deputies who will make their suggestions and observations. And the Committee on Agrarian Politics will study them carefully and will, of course, present them in such a way as to make them the most acceptable and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u144	Thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. Seven national deputies were enrolled. We've already agreed, Ivan Alexanderovich, by the time you come up, to consider this issue, we've agreed that it's 10 minutes. Please, Yuri Carmazin, prepare for the Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u145	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! We were a few years late to adopt this law, as a minimum. This law establishes that the object of the State’s land cadastre is all land and land within and within the territory of Ukraine, the authority of the State authorities and local self - government authorities in the field of the State’s land cadastre. I'd like to draw attention to that body that will then be responsible for both this law and the other, and for the state of affairs that is today with the embodiment of the land, and more precisely I want to go to Anatolia Danilenko, and I don't see him here, but I'm addressing him with repeated disregard for the parliamentary requests that I have written to his address regarding the company "The World of the Ways," which is followed by the large oligarches, which was appointed by Prime Minister Yanukovich to one-personally 1,554 hectares of land in ownership and 118 hectares for another 50 years on lease. Land near Kozin. The lands that led to the persecution of the Cossack's head. And they said, "Give me the seal, we have to give it now, it has to do with the family. And that's it, that's it. Until now, I have not received any documents on the basis of which this land was given, and these decisions have been made. I warn you that there is a criminal responsibility for non-responsibility, a refusal to answer to a national MP. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only in this law that the authority of the Supreme Council is being considered. And I think they're a little bit smaller. It's a little soft. The government's mandate, in article 12, is "to establish the amount of funding and to maintain the State Land cadastre". What, then, is determined by the budget? So I'm talking to the authors. Please see article 12. I'll vote in favour. But let's just not insult the higher legislator and take away even the authority to approve the budget, to finance it, to determine the size of the salary, to approve the standards, rules and rules. So Kabmin wouldn't do it under a bench or under one of the specific officials, but it would be determined by the laws. And I'm asking you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to assign the committee to work on this law immediately, especially since you are the head of the Agrarian Party. And that's the law that we're going to adopt this month, and it's going to go into effect. So that we can take it into account in the draft State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u146	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, please turn on the microphone. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Šibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovština I address my colleagues and contact our citizens who listen to or watch the meetings of the Supreme Council. And I would like to emphasize in this statement that we really need this law today. It's necessary because we should still have an idea that we are in our country today. And we understand very well that the earth is our main asset for today. And all the time, and in our party program, the Frost program, as a candidate for the President, all of this is emphasized. But I predict, unfortunately, a situation that may arise today in this room. The point is that the earth is actually divided and distributed. And she is just waiting for this standard of the Earth Code to enter, when we can be traded in the land. As soon as it enters, the earth is, as they say, already laid hands, and it will simply be distributed among those who can do so. And so today, predicting this, I want to say that unfortunately, this bill is not going to be voted today. It will not be voted because it is inconvenient. And we see it today in the mood in the room. And I would like to ask our citizens to know well who is now ready to trade the earth and who today is against counting our wealth for what we have today. Now for the draft of this law. God forbid we should accept him. I would like to draw attention to article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine. As we know it well and will carefully read it, there is nothing written about the authority of the Supreme Council. And article 11 of the bill states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of State Land cadastre is the approval of state-owned programmes in the field of State Land cadastre. So if we bring this into our Law today, then we need to make appropriate changes to the Constitution, because once again, I want to emphasize that article 13 does not provide for it. That's one thing. And the second. Here are some significant comments about who will license to order the conduct of the land’s monetary valuation. So here we also have to put in a transitional position a note on the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity in order to really have the opportunity to have a full law that will enter into force and which will then not raise any particular observations to sabotage, block and put into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u148	Yes, Mironenko, please, the Communist faction. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u149	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! You all know that the Communist faction has fought hard against capitalist reforms in the country, against the adoption of the Earth Code. Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko warned that this reform would impoverish the majority of the population and enrich the narrow population. In fact, we see it as such: the majority of the population has impoverished, is incapacitated, and the narrow segment of the population is enriched. In these circumstances, we are considering a bill that the Communist faction will support on first reading. However, we would like to draw attention to the following: in fact, the farmer is not protected. And this cadastre, this cadastre, will, of course, contribute to some quality assessment of the land. However, they do not take into account those who are now. The bill does not take into account that economic activity has led to a deterioration in the quality of the land that was best in the world. We had the best niggers, and now the quality of the land has gotten a lot worse. Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko's programme provides State support to the village, the farmers. And you all understand, dear fellow countrymen, that we had the support of the village in socialist ways. And if Peter Simonenko is elected, the village will be supported by farmers. There will be appropriate loans to the population, farmers, and, of course, the banking system, which will be largely nationalized, will ensure this. We also see that the village is effectively understaffed, unfortunately, the majority of the elderly remain in the village. The social sphere that existed in the country is being destroyed. And when I drive around the county and I see that the interns can't work because they don't have the tools to do it, they don't have the ability to live properly. While there are oligarchists among us, we must all have a few consciences and not rely on the continuation of this terrible course. And to you, dear fellow countrymen, I would like to say that you need to win Simonenko, otherwise there will be no good in the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u150	Please take the position of the government on this bill. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, we understand the possibility and necessity of adopting this bill, but at the same time there are quite a number of observations about today's edition, which is virtually no different from the one that was rejected on February 5, 2004, which also confirms the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. So we think that this bill needs to be finalized and processed in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u151	For reasons, Yukhnowsky, please. And then the Hare. And we'll vote. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u152	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, I have been working on this issue since 1990. And to this law I want to introduce two very important things that can be done. Cadastre means land mapping and registering owners. In order to map, however, the law should introduce the maximum permissible scale of maps followed by the mapping of the area. Without the introduction of maximum legal scope, let's say one to two thousand, mapping and cadastre don't make any sense. The second question is land assessment. It offers two forms of evaluation: bonit and economics. They're supposed to be saying, "the sum of the necessary marks of a bonit assessment and the sum of the signs of an economic evaluation." Without such a population, there can be an arbitrary way of assessing land. Basically, I also think that's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u153	Yes, John the Rabbit. Then there's Tereshuk, Melniczuk, and we're going to vote. I'm the ones who signed up, the respected colleagues, and I haven't been able to speak. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! I suggest you adopt this bill in the first reading, but there are a lot of things that need to be improved. First. We need to harmonize with the Earth Code a number of provisions of this bill. This applies to both concepts and principles, and many other articles. The other one. The authority of local self - government authorities needs to be extended. Because practice has shown that land use management through public administrations leads to the terrible distortion of Ukrainian laws, the destruction of forests, the destruction of our soils. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the authority of local self - government. And the third. We need to accept it because the very absence of this law does not allow us to create a system of movement and purposeful use of the earth. That is why we see the boundaries of the reserves being destroyed today, as we see the land being converted from one category to another. So I ask him to accept it in the first reading, but it is very good to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u155	Thank you. Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Then Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u156	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Dear fellow national MPs, I am addressing those MPs who do not vote under certain circumstances. It's not a political law, it's an economic law. If we really want to protect the rights of our citizens today, which are guaranteed by the Constitution, if we want to make for the future a civilized market for the earth, rather than allowing the land to pass into someone’s hands, so that the latifunds mentioned by Deputy Droguncs are created, we are obliged to adopt this law. It's far from perfect, it's imperfect, but it's a request to support and accept it in the first reading, and then to make your proposals and work on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u157	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Then there's the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u158	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Since I was preparing for the performance and had a three - minute schedule, I will make only one comment. And yet, who owns the land in Ukraine today? More recently in the Mikolai region. The area of the village. The peasants received state property rights and decided no longer to trust the tenant Demchenko. What do you think? For the past year, the tenant has been using this land without the consent of the villagers. On this point, I would like to turn to all parliamentarians: please support Alexander Moroz's initiative on what we should have in rural support today in order for those who paid for State acts to recover money and to those who want to receive state acts to give free. A signature is being signed, please connect to this action.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u159	Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u160	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, the situation needs to be clarified. When there is a proposal, a desire, and this is stated in the bill, to put in the legal field of earth cadastration, it has to be approved. But the law really is such that it is impossible to accept it at one time. But in the first reading, so that this initiative does not die and is not silenced. We'll go back to the assessment of the land sooner or later. That's why this law, in principle, is going to stimulate the work and work of the Supreme Council, because by adopting it in the first reading, in furthering, amending it and forming it in such a perfectly legitimate way, the committee will be the appropriate profiling committee. And that's why I would like the initiative to go to Parliament so that we can offer all the users of the land a full and quality law. If we support it in the first reading, we can eliminate all warnings at the committee level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u161	Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee supported by you and supported by the government to adopt the draft Law on State Land cadastre. Registration number 5394. Please vote. [[13:18:07]] For 253 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 98, “Ukraine” - 1, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 0, “Ukrainian One” - 1, “Centre” - 15, “NDP” - 12, “Deminiciatives” - and “People’s Government” - 0, “O” - 9. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We need to include in the agenda the draft Act on Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme 2005 so that the committee can work on this bill. In this regard, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please, Stanislav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u162	Head of the Gurenko Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft Law on the State Economic and Social Development Programme 2005 was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Economic and Social Development Programmes. Paragraph 6 of the 85th article of the Constitution stipulates that the approval of state programmes is part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's mandate. In accordance with article 8 of the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes, the Cabinet of Ministers submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft state programme for 2005 at the same time as the State Budget Project. Unfortunately, as has been the case in practice, the budget has already gone to virtually first reading, and the program in the Supreme Council has not yet been considered. I want to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues to the fact that this is a gross violation of our rights with you. The Supreme Council, once again, has not considered the social development programme of the state for the following year, and we are already approving the budget. I would ask you to correct this error in the budget discussion. The budget should be adopted after we agree with you on the main parameters of this program as defined by law. I would ask the Ukrainian national deputies to consider the application and make the appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position has been clearly shown by the committee head that we should take up the draft Law on Ukraine's 2005 State Economic and Social Development Programme, and then we will be determined, because consideration of this issue should prejudge the adoption of the budget. And in order for the Supreme Council to maintain legal purity here, we need to allow the committee to consider this bill. And now that we're looking at it essentially, then we're going to discuss and talk about motives, and there's no motive here. That is why I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the National Economic and Social Development Programme Act 2005, registration number 6147. Please vote. [[13:21:54]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 91, I read pro. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 0, Hard Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 17, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Alliance - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, "Centre" - 15, NDP - 12, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Afterfraction - 8. Decision taken. I ask the committee to prepare this document for consideration. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision from an earlier discussion. This applies to government days and parliamentary hearings. First of all, this is a draft decree on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere. Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyevich of the Committee Stanislav Ivanovich, from the committee. Then are we just putting these projects to the vote? There are two projects here, dear colleagues. The project introduced by Viacheslav Kirilenko, as well as a project implemented by a group of national deputies, is actually from the committee. In the order of coming, I'll put them to the vote. The first is the voting project proposed by the committee. This is registration number 5614-d. Information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the residential sector. I'm voting on a draft ruling as a whole as a ruling. Please vote. [[13:24:05]] For-66 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote the draft decree proposed by the People’s Deputy, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Change the vote. From Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the voter's attention to this vote. The point is that the question of the state and formation of prices and tariffs on housing and utilities is known, and it causes a sharp discussion in our society. It's also known that now there are about seven billion housing-communal debt payments. And of course we have to look at that question. The government, not just one government, but several governments, are delaying the resolution. And our national deputies in his discussion required at least an unsatisfying assessment. She did not find support, unfortunately. In most national deputies, the issue is said to be neither warm nor snooze. And that's why it didn't even get a political evaluation. That's what our deputies need to know. And that's why we don't support that proposal, and we're asking you to understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u165	Yes, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree, registration number 5614-3, on information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the state and formation of prices and tariffs in the housing and utility sphere for adoption as a whole as a determination. Please vote. [[13:25:53]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The draft regulations have been rejected. By factions, please, or we will go back endlessly to the examination of these documents. "Our Ukraine" - 95, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, faction of Communists - 0, SDPU - 0, "Trud Ukraine" - 0, National agrarian - 17, SPO - 14, Timoshenko - 17, "Soyuz" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1. [[I'm reading pros.]] "Centre" - 14, NDP, industrialists, entrepreneurs - 11, "Dem. Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 8. Yes, now the draft decree on parliamentary hearing recommendations, economic policy, topical issues. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and as a whole. I mean, the honourable colleagues that these recommendations, well, peaceful natures have no political burden. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee on adoption as a basis and in the whole of the draft resolution on parliamentary hearing recommendations "Ukraine's Economic Policy: Current Issues", registration number 5703. Please vote. [[13:27:18]] For-57 The draft decision was rejected. The next draft of the regulation is the state of reform of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities and the legislative provision of their activities. Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, please. Here are two draft decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! According to the Ukrainian Government Day, by September 14, the committee had prepared a draft decree on the status of the reform of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities and the legislative provision of their activities. Following the discussion of the project at the committee meeting and the discussion of the matter on the Government Day, proposals from the National Security and Defence Committees for human rights, national smaller and international relations, as well as draft decree No. 6142/1, introduced by National Deputy Roman Zvaric, came to the attention of the Committee. The Committee has considered the above proposals, and most of them are supported. The proper submission is given to you, distinguished national MPs. Proposals by the National Security and Defence Committee are proposed to be added to the draft decision. At the same time, the issue of the establishment of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Control of the Activities of State Security, Intelligence and Counter-Intelligence Authorities, in our opinion, requires further work on other profiling committees with the preparation and implementation of appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposals of the Human Rights Committee are supported. With regard to the proposals made by National Deputy Roman Zvaric, they are also supported and may be added to the draft decision. In Romana Zvaric's project, unlike our assessment of "seeing work isn't enough," he suggests "unsatisfying." Similarly, Roman Zvaric suggests that the President of Ukraine be asked to resign as Minister of Interior of Bilocon. Roman Mikhailovich, that's a proposition, maybe a good one, but we have a bad experience when, after our recommendations, we come to some sort of principled conclusion, it happens the other way around. And remember, when we invited the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Bilocon to release the heads of the U.M.S. at Zakarpat Varzabu in the session room, he was soon given the rank of Major General of the Militia. With regard to Roman Zvaric's proposal to listen to the report of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the committee supports this proposal. And I'll tell you that on the last committee, our committee has decided separately to listen to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Only one, Roman Mikhailovich, you offered for October 6th, for tomorrow. The Attorney General is in Vienna. So we proposed on October 8th of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that on September 14th on Government Day we have considered this issue and discussed it was an opportunity for everyone to speak. [[Have a seat, please, Volodymyr Romanovich]] There are two draft regulations. The first is submitted by the committee, the second by Roman Zvaric. The difference between these projects is this: the committee suggests that the government's work is insufficient, Roman Zvaric is unsatisfactory. In addition, Roman Zvaric proposes to hear the Attorney General’s report as well as to ask for the release of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules, I shall be the first to vote. We've already discussed, we don't have to, it's Government Day, I don't need to remind myself of the Rules -- I know the Rules very well. Dear colleagues, we discussed the draft decision, but then we didn't vote because there were no people in the session room. I'm asking you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, we've discussed this. I therefore put to the vote the first draft of the ruling proposed by the Committee, 6142 for adoption as a basis and as a whole as a decision on the state of reform of the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine and the legislative provision of their activities. Please vote. [[13:32:16]] For-96 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote draft decree, registration number 6142-1 on the state of reform of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities and the legislative provision of their activities for adoption as a basis and as a whole as a decision. [[author - National MP Zvaric]] [[13:32:51]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Now, one minute. "Our Ukraine" -95, Ukrainian regions - 0, Communist factions -53, SDPU -0, Labour Ukraine -0, National agrarian -0, SPI -0, Block Timoshenko -15, Union -0, only Ukraine -0, Centre -15, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs -3, Deminiciative -0, non-fractional -4. With a motive, please, cook. And then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u168	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Since this is the position of the profile committee on the fourth paragraph of my draft ruling, where it is about hearing the Attorney-General's report, I would ask you to put the committee's vote on it by adding a single paragraph to it, just this paragraph in my draft ruling. I would also like to point out that the Procurator's Act provides for a mandatory report by the Attorney-General on the state of legality in the State at least once a year. This term is about to expire. So it seems to me that this is exactly the position that needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'm drawing your attention and calling to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to transfer from the Zvarič ruling what's written here, what's actually in the state today is the phrase: "Last time, there's been a tendency towards politicization of law enforcement authorities and prosecutors that make it impossible to ensure constitutional law in the state. This shows the departure of these authorities from the principles of their functioning in the rule of law as defined in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine." That is exactly what is happening today. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are in charge of the Election Monitoring Commission. And as no one better knows, it's all written true. A mass of provocations is being prepared with the involvement of law enforcement agencies themselves. So this has to be written down to make it impossible to provoke and change the terms in the committee's ruling that are there by October 15th and so on. I'm reminding you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a proposal that goes back to that. Who's in charge of going back to reviewing the draft regulations? [[Registration number 6142, 6142-1]] [[13:36:03]] For 209 The decision is not taken. A draft decree on the curriculum for the education of students from the Republic of Cuba in Ukraine is being announced. The factions? Please, by the factions. I said the draft regulations were rejected. Our Ukraine - 97, Ukraine - 0, Communists - 51, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 0, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, Alliance - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 15, NDP and PPTU - 1, "Deminitiates" - and "The People's Government" - 0, "Afterfraction - 7. A draft regulation on the curriculum for the education of students from the Republic of Cuba in Ukraine is being announced. There's two projects to be decided, right? Please report to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Stanislaw Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u172	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You have laws in your hands that are virtually identical, and you can vote for, say, the first bill. But I would ask everyone today without the exception of the national MPs. Last time I realized that this issue had been discussed, no national MP was practically against it. For technical reasons, there were not enough votes, there was political opposition. Cuba is today the country that is not the richest in the world, and over 20,000 children of our sick have healed in 10 years. We can't, so 200 students can learn from our budget. If you figure out that the average cost of one student is 3,000 dollars, that's 500-600 dollars a year, people are good! So I'm proposing a small complement only in the determination to do: every year, starting in 2005, and predicting that not only students, but also postgraduate students, and predicting funding for the preparatory office, it's a recommendation from the government. [[And there was 2004]] The science-expert department is very positive about this and it says that we should do it. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, vote in favour, oh, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u173	I will definitely vote. Please, three minutes, questions or a statement? Question is three minutes. Please sign up. Microphone. Yes, you are, Terjehochin, please. You bastards, please. There's no Teryochin, well, that's impossible, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u174	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I want to support our committee's position, because if you don't help Cuba, then who will help. This is the only country in the world that has done so much when we were in trouble with Chernobyl, they treated our children for free. Let's just give them a little bit of good money for that. I am very much asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u175	Vernigora. A Microphone of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Let's vote better.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u176	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Stanislav Mikolaiovich, you have rightly begun that the fate of our children of those who have suffered does not interest the region of the party, there are others who do not take part in the vote. Unless the children are guilty of supporting politicians like that, they may not be. I'm part of a delegation that will go to Cuba for days to thank the government and all the Cuban people for saving the lives of more than 20,000 of our children. And I think that today even those who walk in the towers, of those non-voting and non-working factions in Parliament, should go into the hall and vote, and thus demonstrate to the Cuban people that they might be the last ones to take off their shirts and treat our children. And then we'll see that really the people of Ukraine and all the political parties for our children, for the future of Ukraine. And you're right to ask the question that we should vote in general for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u177	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if only the question was about voting on this issue, which is a matter of moral honor, the moral face of our Parliament. I think we can't help but support this bill and this decree today. Otherwise, I don’t know how we’ll look into people’s eyes at least the parents who drove there were treated. And not answering good for good at all is not Christian, not human.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we discussed this decision on Friday of the previous plenary week. We agreed that we would vote today, that we would vote today. For reasons, please, Yavorowski. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u179	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block Dear colleagues, I spoke at the time and made an offer that was generally supported. Adam Ivanovich and Vladimir Mikhailovich remember that. We're willing to accept that. But I said, and once again, I'm going to vote for it in one condition. When it's not at the expense of our children, rural children who can't enter, because there's a quota from the State Budget. A single line has to put this in the definition to be a completely separate line. And it's not the money that's going to be spent on teaching, it's the government's teaching of our children. That's when it all comes together, and we're going to do it very honestly. Otherwise, you know, at the expense of it, and so little is there for the talented children of today's peasant to enter either the same worker or even the poor Ukrainian intelligent, I'm against it. But support is needed on account, and you agreed that a single line. If so, I am aspiring to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u180	The committee supports this proposal. But I would like to remind you of Vladimir Yavorowski. Volodymyr, Cuba has a small budget, but it treats us at the expense of its peasants. That's why we support your proposal, in addition to the State budget. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u181	Jemiliev's microphone, please. Very briefly, please, we're just going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you that this draft of decrees refers to the provision of free aid to one of the most disgraceful regimes that have yet to be preserved on the Mother Earth. Experts in this country estimate that with 11 million people, about 20,000 were shot politically. And about half a million people went through prisons. If there were only 11 prisons in Cuba before the Communist revolution, there were now more than 300. The United Nations Commission on Human Rights makes resolutions nearly annually condemning the Cuban government for human rights violations. However, the Cuban authorities openly ignore the opinion of the international community. In March last year, 75 active lawyers and journalists were arrested for several days. Among them is journalist Alfredo Fernández. In April of that year, a member of the International Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u183	I'd like to tell Cemil's colleague, if once a person's taken care of, then she shouldn't be blowing on cold water all the time. Why here, say, Fidel Castro to those students we want to teach today? Including you will be able to meet them and teach them democracy and whatever. I don't think it has any bearing. We are today teaching not the leaders of the state of Cuba, but we are teaching the representatives of this country, which is related to all of our Ukrainian children. And I propose to vote yes. This has nothing to do with what you said to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? With these additions: every year, starting from 2005-2006, allocate an additional 200 seats to the admission plan. [[I'm asking you to pay attention!]] And add there in the first paragraph -- "in the schools of Ukraine, also providing for the allocation of funds to ensure their education in the preparatory faculties." With such clarifications, I am voting on the approval of the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the curriculum for the training of students from the Republic of Cuba in Ukraine, registration number 5062, authors, I underline, Rudzikowski, Bogotyrov, Nikolayenko, for adoption as a whole as a decision. Please vote. Vote please! [[13:45:29]] For 209 What's not working? Change it. Please reverse the vote. Make sure the system doesn't work, please. I beg your attention, fellow officers. May I have your attention, please? Taking those details into account the position that has been expressed and the reasoning on the committee's part, I am voting on the whole draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5062, on the programme for the education of students from the Republic of Cuba in Ukraine. Please vote. Vote. [[13:46:17]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, "Trug Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 21, SPU - 18, Block Timoshenko - 19, Yes, please. "The Union" - 0, "The only Ukraine" - 1, "The Centre" - 15, "The NDP" - 13, "Deminicatives" - 0, "The Postfactional - 9. I'll just do it, now let's take the base, then we'll do it. I'm voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 5062. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u185	I'm asking "Our Ukraine." Guys, vote, but you have 30 more votes. Well, please, guys. [[13:47:32]] For 234
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u186	Decision taken. Now, if you'll excuse me! Now, dear fellows, I want to say the exact same thing. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 81, “Ukraine” - 2, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian - 21, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16. Please calm down! "The Union" - 0, "The One Ukraine" - 1, "The Centre" - 15, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 8. Now listen to the additions, please, dear colleagues. "Every year, starting from 2005-2006 school year, allocate an additional 200 seats to the admission plan."--after the text. [[offer by Vladimir Yavorowski]] After "superior primary institutions", we're going to add to the addition: "By also redistributing the funds to ensure their education in the preparatory faculties." In view of these additions, I am voting on the approval of the ruling as a whole. Please vote. [[13:48:52]] For 217 Then I ask the committee to look again, and then we put it to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Check why the cards don't work. I would like to take these additions into account for your insistence on the full approval of the Supreme Council's drafts, registration number 5062, authors: Rudzikowski, Bogotirova, Nikolayenko. [[for the speech stenographer]] Please vote. [[13:49:46]] For 234 It's been decided. For reasons, Roman Zvaric, please. By factions, please give it to the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u187	Dear National Socialists, I am addressing you first of all to Stanislav Nikolainka. We have our position, we don't need to be agitated in the session room, and we don't need to use this room to do any agitation. And things like this that have just happened in the sessional room can just break down really noble initiatives on the part of the national MPs. So I'm asking you to stop this practice so it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u188	Let's be mutual. Nicolanca, please. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u189	I'm on behalf of the MPs who introduced this bill and the 250 who voted in favour. I want to thank Roman Zvarich and his colleagues today for actually supporting this bill. Well done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine has been announced for consideration. [[on the Protection of the State Secret]] Registration number 4123. Reporter: Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Igor Vasilovich Drizcany. And then get ready from the committee. Please give a very brief summary of your report. Dear colleagues, we continue to work until the conclusion of this consideration, or 15 minutes of the morning meeting. Please report to Igor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u191	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law proposed for consideration was developed by the Ukrainian Security Service as a special government authority in the field of public secrecy. The purpose of the law is to improve the legal and regulatory protection of state secrets. The development of this project is due to the need to improve certain provisions of the State Secrets Act, which was adopted back in 1999. This is due to the changes in legislation that have taken place during this time and the need to harmonize national legislation with the European Union's standards for the protection of classified information. The development takes into account the supply of ministries, offices and institutions, as well as the positive domestic experience and the available foreign experience of providing secret information. The changes proposed for the above-mentioned acts are primarily related to the Ukrainian State Secret Act and are prepared to take into account the practice of applying certain rules of the Act. First of all, they aim to improve the information base of state secrets, the work of state experts on secrets, the implementation of the legal order for the implementation of activities related to public secrecy, and the granting of citizens permission and access to public secrets. So it's suggested that we define more clearly the order of formation, the agreement of the information that is a state secret, the order of assessment of the relevant materials on their availability of secrets, the observance of the confidentiality regime. [[This work, as is known, is carried out by state intelligence experts on secrets, secrecy and disclosure.]] Amendments are proposed to those articles of the law that regulate the procedure for granting, transforming and revoking the admission of citizens to state secrecy on behalf of the State by the Ukrainian Security Service itself, as a special authority. In this regard, it is suggested that the necessary changes be made to article 23, which determines the circumstances that prevent a citizen from being allowed to have a public secret. Some changes to the Laws are also proposed: About the search and search, about the order of departure from Ukraine and the entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens, and so on. The draft law is unsaidly agreed with the Council of National Security and Defence, ministries and authorities interested in addressing the issue. Got a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Justice. The bill was supported by the National Security and Defence Committees, the fight against crime and corruption, the law enforcement of law enforcement, and the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u192	Thank you. Please sit down, Igor Vasilovich. From the committee is Vladimir Dmitrovitch Simonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u193	Simonov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. According to the commission of the National Security and Defence Committee, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers reviewed a draft law amending certain legislative acts. The draft law is primarily aimed at improving the order of messages containing information containing State secrets, granting and revoking permission to access public secrets. In support of proposals for the adoption of the law as a basis, members of the committee feel that in preparing it for the second reading, a number of provisions should be clarified, and they should be made more clearly, as scientific experts suggest. This is especially true of two basic provisions. First. The possibility of an appeal in court against the granting of a permit to continue the activities related to access to the holding. And the second. Concerning the granting of access to the State Department to citizens directly by the Ukrainian Security Service, and without having them duly ordered by the authorities, businesses, organizations. Committee members agree that avoiding the management of institutions, businesses, and organizations on such matters is unacceptable. But these and other shortcomings can be remedied in preparing him for second reading. The committee approved: recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill and adopt it in the first reading, entrusting the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with national security and defence issues to work on it, taking into account the proposals made by subjects of the right to legislative initiative, and to submit it to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u194	Yes, Vladimir Dmitrovich, thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Two for, two against. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u195	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Recently, the gross violation of this law by officials, ranging from a small official to the President of Ukraine, can be found more and more frequently. Many of them do not have the will to do it. This, unfortunately, goes unpunished, and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Security Council of Ukraine, has been virtually eliminated from monitoring the implementation of this law. Why, for example, was no criminal case brought against the Chief of Intelligence of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, who had introduced a U.S. scout to fully classified military facilities. You've all heard, and you know, that the Nazi intelligence has carefully studied and conquered the Black Sea coast of Ukraine. That it is a political ingenuity or a preparation for the NATO assistance of the authorities, at any rate, to protect them from their people. Now, the United States of America demands that our owners not be handed over to Ukraine to eliminate anti-personnel mines so that they are not placed along the Black Sea coast if necessary or if they change power. That is, the road in Ukraine must be clear and unhindered. What a disgrace and humiliation the independent Ukraine has experienced in the ring case. What a pitiful sight our top leaders have, what a slaveleptic readiness they have shown to the American masters to show all the secrets of the production and sale of these latest weapons. Showed them documents, ran them around factories and so on. Different information in the ring case was provided not only to experts but also to the United States Central Intelligence Office. The paradox is that the Law on State Secrets was signed by the President of Ukraine and itself violated articles 3, 4, 8, 37 of the Act. Article 4 says, for example, that State policy on State secrecy is defined as part of the principles of internal and foreign policy by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who consulted us on the admissions and experts of the United States? Who brought this matter before the Supreme Council? I wonder why it's all done. This is done in order to meet the strengths of this world and to obtain at least some kind of debt offering, regardless of the interests of their own people. Why do those who are not silenced in such cases remain silent but are ordered to act by law? Yes, because they serve the President and the Mafia, his environment, not the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u196	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u197	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, if you analyze it completely to the last line, takes into account the changes in the economic and social life of society that have taken place since the adoption of the new Ukrainian Law on State Secrets in 1999. The experience of some developed foreign nations in the protection of the State’s secret is also taken into account. But I would like to make some conceptual remarks that I don't think we can accept this bill. This is about two articles, but which can severely restrict the rights of Ukrainian citizens. I'd like to conceptually delete them on the first reading, then we could vote for others. What articles do I have in mind? First. This is article 9 of the Law on Operational Search and Article 24 of the Law on State Mystery. It is now proposed to increase the time limit for citizens to be tested in connection with their admission to state secrecy to three months instead of one month now. This will thus contribute to the fibrous system, aggravate human rights and freedoms, and ultimately violate article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Another question. It is predicted that the State Secret will be granted exclusive access by the Ukrainian Security Service. Today, admissions are granted to business leaders, institutions, and organizations on the basis of the findings of the Ukrainian Security Service. There are also other points. It is proposed to shorten the deadlines for accessing classified information. For form two, from two to seven, for form three. And so around. I believe that this will have a negative impact on the rights and freedoms of the citizen. This will make it unnecessary to contact the Security Service. I'm not saying that this somehow reinforces the Security Service. God forbid it gets worse, but where it's about national security, not there. I want to ask Igor Vasilovich to tell the Service Manager that the national MPs are indignant and I am particularly concerned with the fact and information that we are receiving about listening to phone calls from the Security Service. We did not give you the legal authority to have our rights severely violated. I believe that this is actually the subject of a special investigation that will be conducted by Parliament and the law enforcement agencies after the elections. But I urge you not to do that before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u198	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u199	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to start by touching a little bit of this philosophical question -- the secret of the state. What kind of state do we have today? There was a state, a country that was Soviet, a country that was a socialist. Now the homeland of bourgeois, the country's capitalist. Emphasis has changed substantially, even in principle, on what state there is and what it needs to protect. Today everyone writes in everyone and everyone under the couch has a digital recorder Major Melnick. I congratulate you on that. So when we're talking about the Rings again, when we're talking about you again, even the situations that took place outside our country, when after that. The so - called Democratic Coalition bombed Iraq, captured totalitarian dictator Saddam Hussein, and finally found no weapons of mass impression or anything else that it was looking for, and that led to this armed attack on that nation independent. So let's think about it with you. And it can be applied to us, and any state secret we have will not prevent such democrats from using a military baton in relation to "Our Ukraine." And I would like to say, here's another example of how they've been ripped apart, they've been selling our state secrets voluntarily. We had a huge military-industrial complex, we had a conversion of this complex, and at the suggestion of certain democratic countries, a Ukrainian scientific technology complex was created, through which, according to Minnauka and education, tenders were made for the conversion of our military production. And these tenders only took place after the experts first. The labs were familiarizing themselves with these conversion proposals and recommending whether to support these bloody dollars is a scientific group of our countrymen or not. And supported. And then they took it for their own use for nothing. So let's support this bill, it's lame, of course, because it's the state of the lame, but at least to protect what we have, what's left. I thank you for your attention. Let's vote for these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u200	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u201	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina Victor Yushchenka's block. It's very easy and easy to speak, because it's clear that this bill is not going to pass, it's just no one to vote, eventually, in the hall. But with such an opportunity, I would like to say that there is something so ironic and paradoxical that we are considering today the issues of state secrets. What state secrets can be discussed in our country, which resembles the courtyard of a widow who has long lost her husband? Actually, it's been said here for a long time, and I'm just going to remind you once again that some of these real technological secrets have been sold long ago, and the secrets that remain, this bill won't spread them, because now we have the most important secrets of the national, let's say, I'd like to say, how do John-Francisco chickens carry eggs in which they're in the middle right now? It's a huge just state secret, how it could have been, how it could have happened. We don't know today what the DOA is or what it does, and how it does most of the looting and stuff like that. So we live in a state where any amendment to the State Secrets Act simply doesn't solve anything, because it doesn't keep anything. But this law, in my view, I will not vote for it, and I urge you not to vote for it, because it actually introduces another monopolies of the Security Service. What the Security Service is today -- I understand very well, it's not doing its job, it's doing the economy, it's not doing the economy anywhere in the world -- it's doing us. Why? Because it's a nice place, you can have it, we know very well how the entire statues were prepared for the unsavory businessmen, then these documents were passed on to the same businessman, he was buying them and so on. Because of this extra feature, and here, first of all, the extra security functions, they're unacceptable to me. For example, the Security Service denies a citizen access to the classified information he needs, says: "He must be referred to the court, he has the right to press charges in court." First, will you find a court of law that will rule in behalf of the same citizen? But on the other hand, imagine that there will be a court that will allow a citizen to keep secrets. But what a secret the Security Service is against and the court gives the right to access it — an absolute paradox! That's why I think that there was once a very nice review of one man: he called it, called it, which is bad, there, the work of art by that one, and finally he said, "But it doesn't matter, there's a coma there, there's a risk there, not that one, but it doesn't matter, because it doesn't matter, because it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter." And neither is the dog worth the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-05-m0.u202	We finished our consideration of the bill. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal, and it's meant to be the basis for us to adopt a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the protection of state secrets, registration number 4123. Please vote. [[14:09:15]] For-65 Well, it's obvious that the bill is rejected. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 4:00 p.m. tonight's meeting. Everyone please be. Thank you.
