ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, we'll keep working. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:04:11]] Registered in the 439 National Deputies Session Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare open. Dear colleagues! We stopped at the consideration of Bill 3586, a bill amending some of Ukraine’s debt laws. Dear colleagues! After two hours of 17 minutes, we agreed to put the bill to the vote. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 3586. [[on the debtor's liabilities]] Please vote. The system's not working. They'll fix it. Take down the vote. Please mobilize. Ready? Take off the vote while we consider it a training exercise. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 3586. [[on the debtor's liabilities]] Please vote. [[16:05:57]] For-300 The law. Decision taken. We accepted it as a foundation. A draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay or recognition as bankruptcy in respect of property rights is being announced. Rapporteurs of the National Deputys of Ukraine Seminouk Valentina Petrovna, Masters of Vladimir Jaković, member of the State Commission on Securities of the Stock Market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Isaiah Leonid Alexiyovich. Please, Valentina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u2	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. For your consideration, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment, submitted by the People's Deputies of Semenyuk, Moroz, Spodarenko. This document is based on these factors. Today, in the Supreme Council, we passed the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, but it's dedicated, it's not actually working. The decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 1992 is only in force. Governmental property is now administered by the Cabinet of Ministers, who delegated his authority to ministries, departments, and other executive authorities; the State Property Fund. In accordance with the President's decree, such powers are delegated to district, district administrations, i.e. they are managed by almost everyone today and there is no effective administration. So probably a lot of businesses that are bankrupt, but what's the big deal, that bill that I'm representing today, it gives priority to what? This is because when an enterprise was discovered by bankruptcy or its debt was recognized, it must have taken into account the opinion of that branch ministry or that district administration that manages it so that without their consent there would not be a peace agreement signed so as not to cause the damage to the State. This will first enable us to talk about the responsibility of government officials who are delegated to the administration of public property. This gives the first opportunity to talk about the efficiency of managing parts of government property, the timely arrival of dividends in the budget, and the work that the State Property Fund began to do today and did after our parliamentary hearings, after hearings here in Parliament on the administration of public property, but still conduct inventory of those public property objects, pieces of property and effective management of that property. Therefore, this supplement, which I propose, is to be taken into account so that the debt of bankruptcy is determined, either by default or by default, by the executives. There's a note by the Scientific and Expert Department that the standard will only be provided for enterprises with a 25 percent share. I would like to say that, as the author of this document, in some ways, I can't agree with the Scientific and Experimental Department, because the bill indicates at least 25 percent, and everything else that goes on above, should be properly fixed by such an appropriate document. This will not violate either the Constitution of Ukraine or the rules of law in force for the administration of state property. I don't think it's possible to do that by texting.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u3	Is Valentina Petrovna all right? Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite Master Vladimir Yakovic. Vladimir Jakovic, please, according to your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u4	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction "Regions of Ukraine", Žmerinski constituency number 14. In your view, a bill amending the Law on Restoration of the Debtor or Recognition of Its Bankruptcy is proposed. The authors are Masters, Antonyev, Komar, Korsakov and Bahtjeyev. It becomes an acute problem today to pay off the wages of the borrowers, and it's the exact ones that are being eliminated. In most cases, the costs derived from the realisation of their assets are not sufficient to meet the requirements of the first-line creditors. And the repayment of the arrears of the salary is done in the second instance. In your mind, I'm going to name two digits that are very sharp today. In 2002, in the seven months of the current year, the amount of outstanding arrears of wages by liquidated-bankrupt companies in our area exceeded 3.8 million dollars. It's about the Winnitz area. Dissatisfaction over the lack of property is considered to be met. At the same time, the Constitution guarantees the right of every employee to receive a reward for his work. The draft amendments to the Debtor's Recovery Act as a recognition of his bankruptcy, then the law, designed to help pay off the debt from the pay-per-view pay-per-view bankers that are being liquidated. The main task of adopting the amendments is to bring the rules of law in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to emphasize that we have a general conclusion of the Legal Authority. As a result of the first reading of the draft Law amending the Law on the Recovery of the Payment of the Debtor, it can be based on the comments made and the proposals made. And the main thing is that there's been a lot of comments about the committee, just whether or not all of the proposals are going to be made, more specifically, the cost of the liquidator. In our law, this article does not touch. That is to say, the cost of the work of the liquidator will be met first, but the satisfaction of the demands of the workers who have been on board today will certainly be taken into account, as they say, and today their demands for the satisfaction of the wages are not taken into account. That's the first one. And the last thing I'd like to say is that this is a very, in our view, a screaming moment, especially when we see that there are a lot of businesses today that are bankrupt and the wages remain in the second, or in the third, row. Please accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u5	Thank you. About the third bill. Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich is a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. Prepare Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u6	The Honourable Chairman, the honourable national MPs, are proposing changes to the bill, which foresees a solution to the problem of shareholders' participation in bankruptcy and rehabilitation. According to legislation in the event of bankruptcy, shareholders have no right at the level of the law to take part in actions, to develop measures aimed at restoring the capacity of their enterprises and to obtain information on the decisions of the arbitral governing society or the committee of creditors that accept this in relation to their societies. The main purpose of the law is to ensure the interests of shareholders in the bankruptcy process by selecting an authorized person from the general meetings, a shareholder who will represent the interests of the shareholder at various stages of bankruptcy, and the bill provides for the appointment of such an authorized person and amendments to the articles of the law relating to the rights of the authorized person, the shareholder during the bankruptcy proceedings of the company to be present at the meeting of the committee of creditors, to receive information from the arbitral director of the sanctions plan or the content of the peace agreement and, importantly, to make proposals to shareholders on matters, since the person has the right to be present under the advisory vote. In view of the fact that the law governing associations provides that shareholders should hold and determine congregations on issues of rehabilitation and bankruptcy, this has not been regulated by legislation. We now propose, as a government, to solve these problems. In addition, these changes will provide shareholders if they do. cases of bankruptcy of their enterprises of the right to present their interests at all stages of bankruptcy proceedings through the selection of the authorized person, namely the arrangement of the debtor's property, the conclusion of the peace agreement, recovery and liquidation. Given the fact that there are now 18 million shareholders, 85 percent of whom are natural persons, this bill, in our view, will allow them to protect their rights, and in any event better solve the problem of bankruptcy in the future. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u7	Thank you, Sergey Alexiovich, sit down, please. National MP Isaiah Leonid Alexiyovich, Bill 5012. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u8	Region faction, Isaev, city of Harikow, 169 district. I'm going to make a very brief effort to draft the law I'm proposing. Production includes credit, supply of kits and so on, construction is all funds, and they are invested by one enterprise in another. And when the time comes to pay off, for some reason, for different reasons, I don't touch them, it's not a payoff. And there's a process called "bankruptcy." This process is endless, and it is achieved in a way that should not really be achieved. There are very different conditions for those who are lending and those who are lending. And this process lasts indefinitely. And there's a lot of examples. Let's say we take this example: Krivorozsky. Returning, the Southern Coal - South - owed Ukrabuda, it owed the builders a very authoritative more than 22 million bracelets because they cannot return on time. The process of determining bankruptcy, and it is endless, must be done as it is done: once applications are made by those who require money to acknowledge the bankruptcy of the enterprise, a moratorium on the limitation of payments is immediately introduced. And then it's just the top-of-the-line payments. And those who have credited are on the fourth lists, and they don't come to them very, very long. The challenge is to remove this gap over time, and then a moratorium on payments should be made when bankruptcy has already been recognized by the relevant authorities and when certain media sources, the media, or newspapers that correspond to the enterprises concerned have been published that the enterprise is bankrupt. And then this whole thing has to go down. In general, one practically paragraph here is introduced into this law, but it allows more efficient use of its own working resources by those who can work and do not use where they can, you know, somewhere useful, somewhere unusable. That's why this whole thing has to stop. Here it is suggested that a moratorium on “conformity of creditors’ claims is introduced after the declaration in official printed means”. All of it. That is understandable to everyone, but there is no burden on the budget, and the State will benefit greatly. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u9	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee is headed by the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments of Kings Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, just so I don't take up your time, I'm talking about the four proposed bills. These aren't alternative bills. Each bill proposes to introduce certain articles, and they do not compete with each other. It is therefore necessary to vote for everyone, and for everyone to be determined whether to vote or not. The point of view on drafts is not to repeat the content of the authors. Semenyuk proposes Valentina Petrovna Bill 4032. Consent with a body authorized to manage public property or where the share of the household is more than 25 per cent of the shares of all bankruptcy processes. The Committee did not support that view. Most of the votes have come to “no support”, although my personal view that the bill is the right, necessary and Valentin Petrovna, even if it does not pass now in the room, we will try, on second reading, if possible, to talk about legislation to say the logic of legislation, to introduce your ideas in second reading. This will be necessary because the standard is correct. With regard to Bill 4243. The Committee recommends acceptance as a basis. The Master's project coincides with the Stoyan project, everyone heard today, it's the payout of bankruptcy. The Committee proposes that it be adopted as a basis. Bill 4432 - Cabinet of Ministers. In bankruptcy, we leave the owner who invested money in the company behind. He's not even allowed on the creditor committee. Although creditors and owners, shareholders may be members of the Labour Group, they are people who have shares, often former enterprises, that could be thousands of people, they are not represented in bankruptcy at all. We must at least give them an advisory voice, but we must launch them into the hall so that they can at least see and control them so that the property of the enterprise does not dissipate. We have to control it. One last point. The Committee recommends that the draft law be adopted as a basis for first reading and that it be adopted. Bill 5012. The draft proposes a moratorium on the fulfilment of creditors'claims only after notification to the official printing bodies, as well as a stay to satisfy the claims of creditors for which a court decision has been taken. Please contact the communists, the socialists and everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u12	Four bills are simple, all four of them are reported. The bill will destroy the procedure for sanction, i.e. there will be no sanction. If before the sanatorium comes, they start to rip the pieces away from the plant, there will be no sanctions. We must address the same issue in another way. The Committee voted by a majority to take the floor and to support the first reading, but very seriously to be finalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u13	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please, Karmazin. Volenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u14	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! From this rostrum, I would like to thank Valentina Seminouk and the authors for introducing the law to protect the interests of the state. Why do people need to understand that public interests need to be protected if they are to be associated with the State? That's what I'm addressing to the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In any State, the State defends its interests. What is more, our practice has shown that these are just state-owned enterprises that have been state-owned and turned into others. And what is proposed to Mrs. Seminouk, Frost, Spouse? They propose that the peace treaty that has been concluded, because today, in the peace treaty, it is possible for a self-sustaining, self-sustaining, self-sustaining, solely on the basis of what its reasoning can address the question of the destruction of the State's fate in the statutory capital of the borrower enterprise. Thus, he needs to agree with the authority that is authorized to administer government property. That's exactly what property and Mintrans and Mineconomy and that the 14 national deputies who sit in this room are in charge, and what they run today from Kabmin and from the President's Administration 27, that's exactly what this is about. So Law 4032 of Semenyuk must be adopted in the first and second readings at once and immediately. Before we're done. The bill, reported by Mr. Masterskin 4243, provides for a change in the order in which creditors are satisfied with bankruptcy claims. It is proposed that the first line, which should satisfy the entire process of liquidation, should make commitments to workers who come out of employment. And I also approve of that, and it's also the right thing to do, because what comes out of a working relationship has to be satisfied first. Today, businesses are bankrupt, for no one has ever been drawn by the State to the cause of a deliberate bankruptcy. Although this is the norm in the Criminal Code, it does not work at all. Hence, this law should be adopted both in the first and in the second readings. Third law. The government’s bill is also designed to improve the situation reported by Biruk and should also be supported. And there are also no warnings to support it in the first, in the second reading. As for the Isaiah bill, I'm sorry, I can't support it, I won't vote, and I don't have time to analyze it. I don't think it'll do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, Volinec. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u16	Mikhail Volinec, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! We have witnessed today when we did not vote in favour of Bill 1349 before this afternoon, which provided for the priority of meeting the demands of creditors, employees and aimed at further strengthening the social protection of workers as a legal person, debtor in the process of its rehabilitation or bankruptcy, with a view to clarifying the competences of professional associations for this protection. In the current legislation, indeed, the rights and powers of trade unions in the protection of workers in the bankruptcy process are not regulated or taken into account. At the same time, we are considering a series of bills aimed at modifying the Law on Bankruptcy or at improving its financial position. And I want to stop on Bill 4243, which was introduced by People's MP Mytrishi, and it's kind of focused on first-hand meeting the demands of employees. However, in the proposed draft edition of article 31, part 1, paragraph 2, of the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor’s Payment, which recognizes the order of the second line of satisfaction of creditors. Subjects have been made to demand that the bankruptcy enterprise be obliged to compensate for damage to life, health, and health. The actual wording of this paragraph refers to citizens, or natural persons, as to whether they have employment relations with an enterprise. The proposed edition deals only with workers associated with the business. Thus, citizens of the life and health of their businesses who are not employees of the bankruptcy enterprise find themselves in an unequal position compared to employees who are equal to their claims for damages, damage to life, and health. Moreover, meeting their requirements is in the fourth row, which significantly reduces their ability to obtain them and the changes indicated are not in line with article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the equality of citizens' rights. In addition, I would stress that 14 bills have been written to amend the bill. And if we were to go according to the Rules, it would be based on Alexander Stoyan's Bill or Bill 2060, which. 2046, which was written by me, where it was intended primarily to put out the debt on the payroll and also to prevent artificial bankruptcy of enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u17	I can't see Rudzkowski. Please, school, nigger. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u18	Honorable National MPs. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. We're looking at a number of very important drafts with you. Of course, it would be better to have one general bill prepared that would take all the positive aspects into account. But we have four of them here. What is the point? What is the point of the bill? If you take the first Semenyuk bill, it's that the state-owned enterprise, which is going bankrupt, should be in line with the bankruptcy procedure with the government. Not only it, but also the body that is bankrupt because it is the property of the state. I think it makes sense, and it's worth supporting this novel. Now the Master's Bill is that wages must be paid in the first place. It's also an offer of hearing. And we've adopted before this a bill that's on guard that the interests of the team don't get hurt. In bankruptcy, you have to pay the wages first. And finally, the Cabinet of Ministers bill. The point is that a shareholder should be allowed to go to the creditors’ congregations. Because he needs to know whether or not they're going to take down the company and report it to his shareholders. I think these proposals are right. Here Isaiah’s suggestion that property could be alienated to bankruptcy was questionable. I think there's a reason for doubt. Because the senator can come, and the property is gone. So you have to think about how to reconcile these points. So the conclusion is that you can base these bills, one of them, and in the final preparation for the second reading, you can take the right moments into account from the other bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Hinzburg, Communist faction. Today we are discussing with you the question that has such a resonance echo in our society, especially among our voters who are listening attentively today, what we are discussing with you today. And the questions that arise from the bankruptcy of businesses, each in his or her district, probably know these problems. And they have to be reflected in the law that we're considering. The first, the main problem. When a company goes bankrupt and people lose their wages, the question arises: Who is to blame? For example, I know these problems from my district, and I know that after six years, people didn't get a salary. Today they get it, but without compensation and so on. Responsibility for this. I'm talking about government structures, they're saying it's not ours today. I'm talking to the local government, and it's responding in the same way today, and it's limiting everything. And people build themselves up, collect such labor teams or organizational committees, and walk around the Kabmin, and seek this truth. And as I consider the law today, I would also like to take your attention to note the positive effect of the law that Semenyuk and Frost have proposed today, a faction of Communists as well as support this, where the state has responsibility and has the right to intervene in the bankruptcy of this enterprise. And the law on the restoration or bankruptcy of the debtors may be a peace treaty. On behalf of the debtor, it is signed by the one - person management of the sanction. Thus, the author of the sanctions, by signing the peace treaty, single-handedly, including his beliefs, must resolve the issue of reducing the State's share in the statutory capital of the borrower enterprise. The accepted position that the signing of the peace agreement by which the governing authority will be possible only after having obtained the appropriate consent of the authorized authority is referred to by the State. This will reduce the likelihood of a so-called shadow privatization of an enterprise as a state-owned asset. You can also call that positive in the law that Masters proposed, and you've already heard these proposals -- that, in most cases, the sum of the debtor's claims at the time of the liquidation of the procedure is much higher than that of his assets, the interests of the workers in these cases remain unprotected, and this law offers to protect the interests of all workers. Today we propose to take these laws as a basis, to vote on them, that they will allow the implementation of this law to give less such a shipment to bankrupt enterprises that are in the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u21	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I'd like to remind you once again of the opinion of the committee of profile, the opinion of the rapporteurs here that these are not alternative bills, so we can and have the right to vote for each of them. I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. [[on property rights]] Registration number 4032. Based on the base. [[16:36:02]] For-166 The decision is not taken. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment, registered number 4243, is put to the vote. [[16:36:32]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment, registered number 4432, is on the vote. It's a government bill. [[16:37:04]] For 296 Decision taken. The bill on amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment, registration number 5012, first reading, is put to the vote. [[16:37:37]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Master, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Masterskin, faction of "Ukraine". We've allocated 200 million dollars, we've allocated two billion dollars to pay today's wages to people from bankrupt businesses. And at the same time, there's a simpler mechanism: to determine today's wages as the first priority for paying off all the costs that there are, bankrupt enterprises. I'm asking you, Adam Ivanovich, let's put these bills to a vote so that these bills are adopted and then supplemented by a general law, all of them in general, and including those laws that we have not voted on today because they are not alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u23	I can't vote for you. I voted for all the bills. So once again, if there were 200 votes, and if there were 160 votes, you know that's not it. Let's ask, let's go to the committee. Then, when he's working on a bill that was supported in the first reading to take into account the proposals that were made in the national MPs' bills today, the more I don't see the King. That promise was on the committee. There are representatives of the committee, let them count, and then on second reading, we will consider your suggestions. Unfortunately, there is no other option. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies for Price Control is being followed, registration number 4314. First Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration Voschevsky Valerij Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, which establishes that natural monopolies are regulated in the following areas: transport of oil, petroleum products by pipelines, transport of natural oil. and gas pipelines and their distribution, transport of other substances by pipeline, transmission and distribution of electricity, use of railway and infrastructures that provide rail traffic, air traffic control, centralized water supply and water supply, centralized thermal power supply, and specialized services of transport terminals and ports. This is all about regulating the law on natural monopolies. According to this law, only the National Commission conducts open hearings with an invitation, with a compulsory participation in consumer and public union. A bill is proposed to introduce, extend open hearing procedures to establish tariffs and service monopolies for all executives and local self-governance, to the authority responsible for setting tariffs for monopolies. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u26	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments at its meeting on 3 February 2004, Protocol No. 50 reviewed the draft amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies on Control of Operators in Setting Prices and Tariffs, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is aimed at spreading open hearings, repeating open hearings about prices, tariffs on goods, natural monopolies to all executive authorities and local self - government, whose authority is to impose tariffs on monopolies. The main scientific and expert office concludes that the bill can be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Because the imperfection of the pricing system in the field of natural monopolies is one of the causes of a large number of price abuses that are monopolistic, or dominant, situation in this area, which leads to violations of the rights of the broadest circle of citizens. Therefore, the legislative initiative to increase the control of monopolistic practices of operators when setting prices, tariffs on goods, services they provide should help to prevent their unjustified excesses. This committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u27	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Dear colleagues! There's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Please state on board the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled in the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, prepare for Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I would like to address you first of all on the grounds that we are now two of the people in need of the laws of Valentina Semenyuk and Masterpiece, who is responsible for it, Adam Ivanovich. Who would benefit from continuing to steal from these enterprises, in which the State’s destiny is vested? We did not show political responsibility. I know everybody. But if we're asking for factions, Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to show you. It's the fate of the state, let them show their faces today, who didn't want it, who didn't want it, who didn't want it to change the law. And this is the requirement of the Rules, Adam Ivanovich. If we asked you, show me on the monitor and tell the citizens of Ukraine. It's a requirement of the Information Act that Ukrainian citizens know how they're going to hurt the people and that they're going to cost those political parties that didn't support it. Now, as far as this law is concerned. This is the law of one sentence. It's the entire Prime Minister, the whole government gives us that we have to deal with natural monopolies. But we have to figure this out. But it's probably not that way. I will vote for the changes that have just been reported. I support them because there are positive moments. Monopolies should be monitored more closely when priced. More control is needed not only for them, more control needs to be strengthened, and there is also control placed on local government authorities, local government authorities, at the level of local government administrations, on government control. But it's probably not the outcome that we wrote in one sentence about the results of public hearings about changing tariff prices to subjects of natural monopolies, the order of publication about change, is determined by those bodies that rely on the approval or regulation of prices. Let's go to the changes in Ukrainian legislation in a complex way. And I call upon you once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are a wise man, you see that the bill is passed by the government. You have the Prime Minister here in a day. Please show him to collect these bills, how can he not be ashamed to submit them? Let them provide comprehensive laws that can be adopted that improve the economy of the state and life. And I ask you to show who is politically responsible for the failure of the two previous laws, to announce it to the people of Ukraine, and there let us continue to accept the solutions, let them push and explain them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u29	Thank you. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Boris Bespaly will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters. Today we're looking at a question that has such a social resonance, these are prices for utilities, prices for gas, prices for water, prices for rail transport, and so on. And I always want to focus on the fact that maybe it's not a monopoly. And I want to start with what the price of milk is. Today we see that in Soviet times we had a price of seven copies of gasoline, and a price of 14 for milk. And now that the villagers in my district are giving out 40-45 copies of milk, that's the same monopoly on natural resources. Why are people selling gas suddenly rich? Why is it that today people who provide utilities there, heat or water to our city dwellers or villages, why they earn their capital again, and it becomes profitable. And today's law, which is being passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, I understand to myself that he wants to avoid it, but not in this way, perhaps not in this way. Today, we need to understand that it is impossible to apply to gas or water prices if you bought a trip to Canary or bought a car that is very expensive, and you put it all on the cost of gas or water. But this law, the essence of it, I would like to read out, according to the bill, the authorities that regulate the activities of natural monopolies should take into account the results of the publication and opening of hearings when making decisions on such regulation. I understand that this should take into account the opinion of the citizens. So these hearings have to go through the radio, the TV, the newspaper, there's the press. And we have to respond. Well, I get it so well that this law doesn't give us anything, we support it, but as a result it'll just be another law that will lie and be drunk. There's another proposal, a proposal that can regulate these relationships, it's often and very responsible to look at these structures, which is why they raise utilities, and then hold them responsible. And then our society will have more confidence in our authority, more confidence in its state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u31	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Platinum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u32	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block, Our Ukraine, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, you do not think that we are simply, or our descendants, to think of what this government has remembered, he remembered, first of all, a sharp increase in prices. Last year, this government caused whether there was a crisis of rising prices for bread that led to higher prices for everything else. This year, we already have higher oil prices, oil products, gasoline prices. At the time, I was hoping that if the government was already introducing a bill that was about price policy, in the area of monopolism, that it would be a really solid document that the government had taken into account its calculations last year, this year, and would really suggest how to regulate prices, how to create conditions for non-governmental enterprises to keep decent prices. Instead, we see a single line that's nothing at all, some kind of hazy-tongued idea of something to change it in such a way that it doesn't change anything. If we vote for this law or if we don't vote on what will change in the real life of people? Nothing will change. I even think that the lawmakers who made it, they're government officials, I'm sorry to suggest it. Maybe he can calculate the money for the unproductive waste of time. I think this law will actually pass, and nothing will change. But what would you have to do? Today we have, like, gas prices, how did they get up? This is the result of a monopolistic conspiracy. What did the Antimonopoly Committee do in this part? We were told here that the information was written directly on the magnetic film where the plots took place. No reaction, including from the government. So the real way, it's not to create an artificial monopoly to run regulatory legislation into full power. We have a law on regulatory activity, a regulatory policy that those same government structures tend to ignore. Instead, we are offered a law on nothing that takes up such an important time. So I think, either by supporting or not supporting this law, we have to pay attention to the government's fact that it's absolutely not dealing with the issues of prices that are insurmountable to our citizens, the problems of energy prices, the problems of municipal prices. Instead, we see where his efforts are going. His efforts are to produce empty papers against the backdrop of a sharp rise in government prices. And I think this law is more of a government itself, it doesn't know what to do with prices that are going to creep up. But I think Ukrainians know what to do with such a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u33	Vladimir Zaplatinski, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, please. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! The content of the bill is that in article 9, "The Principles for regulating the activities of natural monopolies" is added. Article 9, paragraph 3, in the current edition states that the authorities that regulate the activity of natural monopolies in making decisions on such regulation take into account information on the activity of the natural monopolies subject given by consumer associations by natural monopolies and other interested persons. The drafters propose that this paragraph should be supplemented by a standard: the results of the publication and public hearings regarding changes in prices, tariffs on goods of natural monopolies, the order in which information is made public and public hearings about price changes, tariffs on goods of natural monopolies are determined by the authorities on which the price and pricing law requires approval or regulation of prices, tariffs. It should be noted that article 15 of the Law on Natural Monopolies provides for the application of open hearing procedures only by national commissions when considering matters of social importance. The proposed amendments to article 9 introduce a new legal norm that requires the application of the public and public hearing procedure when considering all projects without exception, the decision to regulate prices and tariffs for goods, the services produced are implemented by natural monopolies. The bill’s authors thus seek to strengthen control over the monopolistic setting of prices and tariffs of operators by increasing public participation in the pricing process. The offer is completely heard. The activity of enterprises in the field of natural monopolies really requires increased control, including public control, at prices and tariffs. The lack of transparency of these processes today has led to an unwarranted increase in raw materials prices, which has a negative impact on the development of production and consumption. In conclusion, the faction of Social Democrats proposes to support the decision-making of the above-mentioned additions to the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies as the first step towards a solution to this life-altering problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u35	From the motives of Shibko, please. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u36	Vitaly Shibko, Socialist Party, city of Dnipropetrovsk Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to go back to the point where when we're talking about a reduced procedure, there should be two "against," two "against." We had it that way that everyone even stood up for it. That's the first one. I have an idea, for example, that it's offered and it's not giving anything. I've been giving examples here in the hall, when prices were raised in the first-level Dnipropetrov region, the court's decision was to stop these prices from being cancelled, but the local authorities are still failing to do so. So all these hearings are good, but they don't. So maybe I'm here against this, and I'm suggesting that instead of such an ineffective mechanism, it's suggested that we give the Antimonopoly Committee the right to control every case of natural monopolies' initiatives to raise tariffs with further information and control by parliament. Then it's going to be effective because there's an existing mechanism here that's left behind and there's nothing that these hearings are giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law amending article nine of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. Registration number 4314. Please vote. [[16:57:05]] For 294 Decision taken. Why don't we, dear fellows, set it up so that we don't stretch it, in general, because it doesn't give us anything at all? There's a denial, so we won't. Considered the basis. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities is being announced for consideration. Registration numbers 2548, 4274, 4274-1, 4500. I'd like to ask, honourable colleagues, really, if we have someone against the bill, to argue: two in favour, two in favour. So that we can look at what we have planned. We have a huge array, piles of bills. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric has the floor for the report. Get ready for Steele.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. I won't be talking long without overloading your attention, especially since there are so many questions that the Chief of the Supreme Council himself has been talking about. This is about bringing this law into line with the Ukrainian Accounting Act. Against this background, we should also point out that we will not be able to complete the process of introducing Ukraine to the World Trade Organization without bringing in this bill, which regulates the order of audit activities with the accounting law. In our bill, although I admit that there are some shortcomings, because now it's just about first reading, actually there's an attempt, there's an attempt to do that. Instead, I would like to say something about an alternative bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Practically the rules set out in the government's version are the same as those contained in the bill tabled by the People's Deputies of Lebedivsky and myself and another alternative bill. Instead, there is one principle of difference that I would like to focus and draw your attention to. The government bill, as in ours, defines the order in which the auditorium is formed. In our bill, we tried to provide this approach, this method of building an auditorium, to ensure maximum independence of the audience. In the government bill, instead, there is one major flaw, as I see it, in my view. There it is suggested that the Tax Administration be given the opportunity to have its own representative in the auditorium. Now you can agree with me, or you can't agree with me, but I think there's a major conflict of interest here. Tax should be taxed, audiences should ensure the interests of their customers on the basis of, of course, what is defined in the relevant laws of Ukraine. This is practically the only significant difference between our bill and the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I don't think there's room for the Tax Administration in the Auditorium, and that's why I'm proposing, after all, to support our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u39	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Let's hear the bill from the Ukrainian national deputy Mikoli Josipovich Chechel, please. Is there a Mikola Josephovich? None. Master Vladimir Jakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u40	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction "Regions of Ukraine", Žmerinski constituency number 14. I understand that the changes that we've proposed here, I agree with Mr. Zvaric, that, in fact, the Auditorship Act that we have today, it has some flaws, and my suggestions for improving it are precisely about how we improve it as quickly as possible so that it works and we don't have any problems with the same World Trade Organization. What does that mean? First. That's what we're doing. We're developing concepts like escorting the firm and testing the firm. Today, you know that an audit firm is conducting, on the one hand, a company like an auditory firm, on the other hand, a test of the correctness of paying taxes. Accordingly, there is also a conflict of interest. We suggest that in our changes we bring out, that is, to develop these concepts as such. You remember the Italian scandal with the Parmalat company, that's where that position moved. The other one. We introduce the concept of "international standards," we bring our law into international standards. Also, I think we need to think about how much the auditorium is going to have, and yet, in my opinion, we need to leave control of the state for issuing certificates, more specifically the license to do this work, so that somehow the state organization will influence the issue of licences. Next. Finally, I would say, next. That you can count all the things we're offering here today. You can see that the government project is already more transient in this room. Let it be so that on the first reading, a government bill will be adopted and our proposals will be taken into account in the second reading. I'm taking down my voting bill and I'm proposing to vote for the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u41	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Jacobovich. Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine Jaremenko Alexander Stepanovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities proposed by the Government for consideration contains standards for the introduction of the Audit Activities Act adopted in 1 1993 in accordance with the Ukrainian Laws of recent years, namely: “On Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine”, “On the licensing of certain types of economic activity”, “On Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets”. The bill proposes articles 4, 8 and 23 of the Act on Auditing Activities to be supplemented by a text on the establishment of accounting accounting and financial reporting standards for enterprises in law, national law, accounting standards, which comply with the law on accounting and financial activity. In connection with the adoption of the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, and in accordance with article 8 of the Supreme Council's Ordinance on the Procedure for the Entry into Force of the Act on Auditing Activities of Ukraine, which establishes that the provisions of article 13 on the procedure for licensing of audit activities apply to the adoption of a legislative act on licensing. is proposed to make appropriate changes to the title of Chapter 2, to the name of Article 13 and to articles 19, 26 and 27, thus repealing the rule that the license was granted for the performance of the audit activity. The introduction of a register of audit firms and auditors, consistent with article 14 of the Act on Auditing, by the Ukrainian Auditorium, is also envisaged. Article 15 proposes to amend the number of representatives delegated to the Ukrainian Auditorium by supplementing its composition with representatives from the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets and from the State Commission on Financial Services Markets as bodies entrusted with certain audit powers under the law. In doing so, there is an existing parity ratio of 50 by 50 representatives of the central executive authorities and the professional pooling of auditors. also in accordance with article 26 of the Constitution, under the conditions of admission to the World Organization, the trade in articles 5 and 14 is proposed to amend the conditions under which a level playing field will be created for individuals, irrespective of the nationality of the auditor's certificate. The committee decided to support the government bill and take it as a basis. And in the process of preparing for the second reading, add to the bills prepared by the National Deputies. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u43	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Montenegro, Vladimir Kirilovich is head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u44	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investments reviewed draft laws of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Auditorship Act, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Chechel, Masters and Gorbal, Zvarič and Lebedivsky, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers. These bills combine their main objective with the introduction of the Ukrainian Audit Act in accordance with later adopted laws. This is primarily about the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which does not provide for the licensing of such activities as auditorium. While a valid Auditorship Act provides that an auditor can only engage in auditorial activity after obtaining his license. The bill therefore provides for the introduction of a register of auditors and audit firms. In doing so, the National MPs propose to recognize the inclusion in the register as a condition that allows for audit activity, while the Cabinet of Ministers and National Deputies of the Masters and Gorbal projects do not provide for this. [[Boiler, Lebedivsky and Chechel]] The bill also proposes to reconcile the terminology of the current Ukrainian Act on Auditing with the adopted law on accounting and financial reporting and to clarify the definition of the law itself, including the definition of the concepts used here. The rest of the proposed changes include improvements in the activities of the Ukrainian Auditorium. It should be noted that all the proposals mentioned merit attention. There are, however, those who are profoundly different. So the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council concludes that they can all be accepted as a basis. He suggests that a bill be drafted based on them to take into account the constructive proposals of all bills. The committee generally agrees with this conclusion. However, to speed up the adoption of such necessary changes to the law on auditory activity, particularly those that are one of the conditions for Ukraine’s entry into WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u45	Please 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u46	In order to lift the requirement of Ukrainian citizenship for obtaining an auditor certificate, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and to take into account all the right proposals that are in other bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we going to discuss this? Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Seminog. You won't? Then it's school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u48	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully examined each of these bills, and they are even different in thickness, in scope, according to approaches. If the Zvarič Bills and Bills, I'm sorry, there's Zvaric going, there's two authors Zvaric, Lebedivsky, and the Chechel Bill foresaw a new edition of the Auditorial Act, then the government bill only pursues one goal, only one. And let's say right now, because people don't have the ability to see all the bills, they can't study them, unlike us, they don't have the time, that's our job. And the goal is very simple to allow audiences to engage in foreign activities and non-citizens at the same level as Ukrainian citizens. And let's put it at this point in the government proposal. All of it! In fact, there is nothing else. And then you say, let's get on with it! What are you doing, tell me? Have one of the citizens, of those seven million Ukrainians who are now abroad, tell them where they are waiting? In France? In Portugal? In Germany? Where are they given such conditions as you are opening things up to foreigners today? They don't represent such conditions anywhere! There's no such thing as a prank you want to do! At least they work for our Ukrainian citizens, as they do in civilized countries, where they respect their nation. This government does not respect this nation. So, Your Honor, I see what it's like to try to get into the WTO, well, we want to, well, it's very direct that even national interests are absolutely useless to us. For justice's sake, we have to say that this flaw is in the laws of Zvarice-Lebedowski, and the same flaw is in another bill, so it's all open -- open the door. The Auditorium is being set up. But, Lord, it's actually the Supreme Court of Auditors: it's certification of auditors, it's validation of auditing standards, it's training programs, it's keeping a register of auditors and audit firms, and so on. Well, I'll tell you, isn't it a good place to work for anyone? So, Your Honor, I've studied these bills carefully, and I think Mr. Masterskin has done a brave deed by withdrawing his bill. What else? We need to listen to the science department, and all of us, together, to make one bill, by adopting it taking into account the national interests of Ukraine, by providing for the protection of Ukrainian citizens, as we do in the law on lawyers, as we do in other laws. Still protect the Ukrainians and give them a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u49	Anatoly Seminoga, a faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, prepare for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u50	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! We're looking at a really, really interesting bill today, but first of all, we want to make a note of the committee: four bills from the same question, could not have been dealt with on the committee and presented to the Supreme Council a piece of legislation that would take into account all the proposals made by these four bills? Every bill has, in fact, the right things to do to improve the work of the Auditorium and the auditory activity in our country. But at the same time, every bill has some kind of failure to accept these bills as a basis, none of them. Foreign citizens have already been mentioned. For example, in a government bill, even such things as terminology do not correspond to the current legislation, the Civil and the Master Code of Ukraine. And it's also inappropriate to use terms like "business management" even though we have an accepted term for "employees." The proposed edition of the sixth and 19th articles does not correspond to the Ukrainian Law on National Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Enterprises, which takes effect on the first of July of this year. In the proposed wording of articles nine, 23, the word "owners" must be deleted or amended by the word "founders" because it does not correspond to the Civil Code of Ukraine. The legal person does not have an owner — he is a subject of the law. Therefore, the suggestion is to reject all four bills, send them to the committee, redraft them, and bring to justice the Supreme Council the only piece of legislation agreed upon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u51	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u52	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I'd like to focus on that first. Here, representatives of the committee spoke and said that these bills, the adoption of one of them, and in particular the government, opened the door to the WTO. But I don't know, in the requirements of the World Trade Organization, is there a requirement, a request for the Supreme Council to enact illiterate laws that would open the door to the WTO? I don't think that's a requirement and it can't be. We cannot accept inadequacies, and by means of an incomplete law we can enter into the WTO. Nor can it be rushed to adopt laws that do not, in principle, meet the national interests of Ukraine to join the World Trade Organization, for there can be no reason to justify inadequacy. Or the introduction. Whether the failure to join the WTO is the reason for creating or not creating one or the other legislation. This sub-working, complementing the amendment may be the subject of discussion under the introduction of Ukraine into an international institution or organization. So I wouldn't want these arguments to be used from this high rostrum. Secondly, what does it mean that "persons without citizenship and citizens of other countries have the right to auditory activity"? This should be said of: (a) enterprises and (b) Ukrainians, or Ukrainians, and Ukrainian businesses. This priority is neither prescribed nor noticeable, and what is not can be said, but under no circumstances may be voted for. So, of course, my proposal is to what was said in this rostrum, which is the opinion of most national MPs who have read all four bills. To reject them all together. And to invite the committee to create a working group on the basis of the drafters of these bills, to include government representatives in this working group and together in tight terms, but to propose to the Supreme Council a literate, full-fledged, quality document. And then, I think there's no reason, and there's no explanation, that it's going to take a hundred, or it doesn't need a hundred, it's going to be needed by Ukraine, and then we're going to open the door to Ukraine not only in the WTO, but also in other international institutions and organizations that are respected by Ukraine and the development of Ukrainian democracy. So I emphasize that this should be the systematic work and the committee first, and the government. Because I am tired of this rostrum of criticizing government laws. They're in a hurry, in a hurry, and I call them with my left hand, and I don't understand why they're loitering through the Supreme Council. Once again, if there are literate laws, no one in this rostrum will politicize the process, because this process is not political. Trying to build an auditory superstructure is basically an attempt that can be debated. But what's important is you can't use it in your argument, what's going to open the door somewhere, or this door will close. The movement always opens all the necessary doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u53	Valentina Seminouk, faction. It's from the control committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u54	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! I want to get you guys back into history. In 1995, I was the author of a draft law that rejected mandatory audit. By 1995, all business subjects had to go to a private auditor, pay him a large sum of money, put you in jail, and report to the Tax Administration every quarter. That was the case until 1995. In 1995, I introduced a bill that supported members of various political parties, where we rejected mandatory audit. In the world, everyone knows that audits are only voluntary. If an entrepreneur or an enterprise with any form of ownership wants to be assured of his or her right in financial reports, he will necessarily hire an audit, but when he or she needs to do so, it should not be imposed, as is proposed again today. In 1995, when we rejected, we talked about it. That obligation could be limited to those securities brokers, because it was the large amount of circulation costs during privatization. So this rule has been taken into account, and now it's working, and it needs to be left there. What is being introduced by Deputy Zvaric. Dear Mr. Zvaric, you want to re-enter a mandatory audit, only cunningly already talking about the number of untaxed minimums that are today's enterprise. I'm sorry, you're re-entering a mandatory audit. For that reason, in 1995 I said so. Let's set up the 6th article of the Constitution, then the old one, and we'll have to check everyone in a row regardless of the form of ownership. You can't do that. Mr. Chechel wants to do a little trickier now. In addition, by agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, certain subjects of entrepreneurial activity will be released from mandatory audit. Few will go with bribes to Kabmin to obtain a certificate, and he will now walk, looking for a suitable loophole to free him from having to be judged. Dear colleagues! Do not give birth to corruption where it is not necessary to give birth. And it's not necessary to maintain such documents. Do not lie to foreign or corrupt people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! The draft laws on amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditive Activities have been reviewed. We're going to vote now. The first one is the draft law, the registration number is 2548, by Roman Zvaric. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing, registration number 2548. [[17:23:11]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The second is the draft law, registration number 4274, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities, the author of the national deputy Chechel. [[17:23:39]] For-88 The decision is not taken. The People's MP, Masters, has drafted his bill, that's registration 4274-1. So we won't vote him. I now put to the vote draft law, registration number 4,500, amending the Ukrainian Auditorship Act, government law, to be accepted as a basis. Please vote. [[17:24:24]] For 132 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Volodymyr Kirilovich! One moment, Volodymyr Kirilovich! Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. None of the bills received support. What's the committee's offer? What, though, should be the first to put it again? Please, Nigger, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u56	There's an offer. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important bill. There is a proposal to entrust the Economic Policy Committee with drafting drafts and making one out of three and to propose them to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, if the members of the committee, one minute, if the members of the committee submit this bill, they will work and the committee will make the right decision, we will consider it. We cannot give such an assignment, for the committee is not the subject of a legislative initiative. Masterpiece, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u58	Volodymyr Mikhailovich has actually gone through a period of time with regard to taking into account the valuables of quite a few suggestions. It's just that the people's deputies, I don't think they've figured out what really four bills are, they're sort of going in the opposite direction. There was a very clear proposal: all the interesting suggestions to be included in the government bill and the request to put on the first reading so that we don't start the next session. Now let's vote for the government bill to be returned on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u59	Honorable National MPs, distinguished colleagues. I put to the vote, including being led to the famous National Deputies' proposal for a committee to take on the basis of government and work on it. But only 132 national deputies were supported. Thus, honourable colleagues, the bill is rejected. If the MPs work and put one in agreement on the basis of these bills, we will be happy to consider it. A draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the customs treatment of goods]] True, there are three bills on this subject: this is the draft Law amending articles 230, 231, 235 of the Customs Code of Ukraine, the draft Act amending article 328 of the Customs Code of Ukraine. [[on the processing of processed products]] [[on terms of confiscation of goods]] So I'd ask the drafters to report, and then we'd discuss the three bills immediately. Is there no objection? Please, Dobkin Mikhailo Markovich. Is it Dobkin? None. Then Bill 4544 of Skomarovsky Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, the Customs Codex entered into force on January 1st this year. From this point of view, external economic operators have some observations about the complexity of their dealings with the State Customs Service. So by Bill 4544, I'm trying to be more specific about the import permit for raw materials. For example, Article 230, which is referred to as the old Customs Code, did not have such rules, "Authorities to the processing of goods in customs territory of Ukraine" states that imports and processing in customs territory of Ukraine passing from other countries are carried out with the permission of the customs authority in accordance with the provisions of the Code. No one has defined the permit. There is no one in the code who should grant this permission. That is, if you import goods, raw materials for processing, you have to hope for the good of the tax collector. And you know that the tax collector's good will is not always in favor of the company. I mean, clearly in this article, I say that we need to do a proper customs declaration, and that will be a permit, as was before the introduction of the new Customs Code. Also in this Customs Code, article 231 states that if an enterprise recycles raw materials, and not only does one structure, but some other entities are being processed, for example, we need to pass on a portion of the refrigerator, for example, another firm needs to take the permit again, go back to the customs office, get back on your knees, and say, "Give me permission to make another firm there, tie up a couple of peacocks." And that's what's driving the processing process. As competition increases and foreign business partners give raw materials for a short period of time, the Codex of Customs extends these terms, and businesses fail to do their job. So I'm proposing permission in this case just to delete. So these articles have a clarification of what "licence" is. And I would like to support this bill, especially since this bill applies to large enterprises that have been surviving for the past 10 years on the basis of donor raw materials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u61	Vladimir Volodymyrovich, why don't you make a report as the author of Bill 4373 and then make a statement to the committee about 2227.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u62	Okay. Dear colleagues, my next bill is also a change to the Customs Code, 4373. So what's the point of change? Article 328, which defines the duration of the impositions in cases of customs infringements, states that fine warnings may be imposed no later than two months later. But the confiscation of the goods has no limitations. Can you imagine how strange the norm is in the codex? If a fine is paid, two months later, and if you confiscate a product, you can do so even a hundred years later! I've offered to confiscate for no more than 12 months. Please also support this bill. The Economic Policy Committee on this last bill, 4373, unanimously supported it. The Science and Technology Administration had no comment on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u63	Demyochin will be here in a moment. You're now up to the rostrum, 2227 Dobkin. You give the committee an estimate. And Philip Philipovich will be? Okay. Then now, Philip Philipovich, please, 2227.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u64	Dear People's Deputies, Bill 2227 is that in the Customs Code of Chapter Three, add a new article 87, "Missing the Goods". If I'm now being heard by customs officials, and especially by those people and entrepreneurs who are engaged in external economic activities, they are experiencing daily problems, difficulties and other problems that are directly related to customs. And here, unfortunately, they have huge losses as a state, that is, the State Budget, so I'm the enterprises and the honest entrepreneurs that have corresponding contracts with foreign partners. So, indeed, there is a problem, and we should thank Deputy Dobkin for trying to resolve it legislatively. The bill proposes that the new article identify the list of permit documents required for customs clearance and limit the period of customs clearance of the goods to two days from the date of the customs authority's issuance of the documents. The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill and accepted the recommendation of the sessions of the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine made comments to this bill, which is summarized as follows. Customs procedures are already laid down in the Customs Code. [[Article 78]] Customs clearance is usually carried out by customs authorities during one period of time from the time of presentation of goods and means of transport that are subject to customs clearance, the filing of a customs declaration, and all necessary documents and information. The customs clearance shall be deemed to have been completed after the customs authority has carried out the customs procedures determined on the basis of this Code in accordance with the customs regime. Article 79 regulates the simplified order of the customs treatment of certain types of goods, the list of permit documents in the project is far from complete and does not take into account the need for different permits for each type of goods. Article 75 of the Customs Code does not take into account the collection of samples and samples of goods for the purpose of determining their codes, and so the sums of taxes and congregations payable. And if, after two working days, the product moves from customs control to free circulation, and all issues are settled in court, that will lead to tax evasion. Taking into account the foregoing, Kabin considers it inappropriate to amend the Customs Code. The Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also made a number of comments and suggested that the results of the first reading should be sent for further processing and re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u65	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Demyochin. [[Sit down, please.]] Vladimir Anatolyevich. Project 4544-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the bill of amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code is to improve the conditions for external economic activity in Ukraine and to bring the Customs Code into line with the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations. The project is aimed at eliminating the anti-liberal norms of the current Customs Code, which provide for the need to obtain the customs authority's permission to conduct external economic operations with the donor raw material. The need to obtain the permission of the customs authority to carry out external economic operations with the donor raw material is a violation of the rights of business entities to freedom of activity and does not comply with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions. The adoption of the bill will facilitate the creation of more liberal, transparent conditions for economic activity in Ukraine and thus allow for an improved investment climate in Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, from the committee here you are recorded. Is it enough for Philip Philipovich to act? Yeah, yeah, yeah, 4544, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u68	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, Property Management and Investments, reviewed the Skomarowski bill to ensure that the processing process takes place without proper authorization. Now they're getting permission for every stage of processing. He doesn't think it's right, it doesn't have to be done. The committee considers his proposal to be right and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's talk, shall we? Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin urges the faction "Our Ukraine", to prepare Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u70	Yuri Karamazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! It's very difficult for three bills to speak right away, but they're completely ambiguous, so there's a need to discuss them. First Bill, Law of Dobkin, 2227. He's offering to increase it by two days, twice the fiber of the question, is that better, or is that worse? I want you to answer, we do better for subjects, for Ukrainian citizens, probably worse. That's clear. Next. The second question. Obligatoryly, Dobkin writes that it is necessary to have permission documents from such organs and writes down the State Department of Veterinary Affairs, State Plant Quarantine Services, Sanitary Epidemiology, Ministry of Health, State Energy Committee, Control Service, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! There must be a different approach for different types of goods. It has to be differentiated depending on the goods that are being moved. That's the first one. And the second. The expansion of the list of controls will only make life more difficult. So I'm going to ask you to reject the first bill of 2227. With regard to the second bill, to amend 230, 231, 235 articles of the Customs Code, the Skomarovsky bill. Skomarowski's bill deserves attention because it facilitates processing, processing here. And that's worth the attention. Easier processing. With another Skomarowski project there, I ask you to vote in favour. And another project by Skomarowski, who also reported 4373, is a little more complicated. It is proposed to amend Article 328 of the Customs Code, in part three, to read: "The items mentioned in paragraph three, i.e. smuggling, are subject to confiscation.".. Now it's written: ". irrespective of the time of the commission or the detection of a breach of customs rules." Skomarowski suggests: not later than 12 months. Let's think about it. We have general rules of the Civil Code that conflict with the Customs Code. So you definitely have to write, "within the length of the limitation period." And that's three years. So this can be done in the first reading, changing it by three years. Anything else and, in particular, the Demjochina bill will only complicate customs and make matters worse than the Customs Code. As one of the authors of the Customs Code, I don't think we should do that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u71	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u72	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I've got a one-day schedule in my hands. It is 13 sheets of fine print. Most of these laws, the tens that we're looking at in one day, are making minor changes to existing laws. And I think we're dealing with a general problem here. Parliament should not bake laws like mills, otherwise their quality is very low. And it's just that we're so simply in a hurry, and today I'm feeling this kind of pedaling of the Bureau, but it's all 12 years. And the more laws, the more it gets, the better it gets. I think we need to focus more on the quality of the laws now, on the quality of their discussion. It's very good that we started to vote on the same day that the laws are being discussed, but it's very bad that this mill of laws is not stopped. I understand that there is a powerful lobbying, but we must not give in to it. It's just I remember, in Titina there's a poem like, "Let the devil all shout for the darkness they've gained.".. Now we have a law, and let the law be made known to all who are there! And we're just passing a whole bunch of laws. Now to specific bills. It seems to me that another general problem that is disturbed by the national MP, Skomarowski, is very important. This is a huge number of permits that are granted in our country by executive authorities. I would even dare say that the only market that works today is the shadow market of permits. There are even taxis installed there for, well, I don't know if it's really published to the full, but everyone knows how many, what they have to give, at least, who works in this field. I think we need to end this and we have a very serious problem dismantling this shadow market of permits that neither the entrepreneur nor the consumer can breathe, no one, actually, is already in this country. Now it's about the specific customs service. When the Customs Code went on, there was also a very powerful lobbying mechanism, and it had to be accepted, but because the Customs Code had been pedaling so hard, we also accepted it in haste, and as a result, we now have plenty of time to settle those rules. Which could have been corrected by then. So I don't think it's always necessary to rush. From the data. I think we're going to support them. And that's a general reference to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm just asking you to prepare a bill that would give us permission to live without your license, hopefully what will be done with the rest, if not with this Kabmin, the next one soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u73	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, in my view, we often adopt laws that make things worse. This was the case with the VAT law. It has been repaired for eight years, and what has happened to it is what we all see. And that's why there's a code that's appropriate and customsable with amendments that are going to be made every day and every single one of them, and I think this law is going to take some ugly side of that. Therefore, we should be more cautious about this with greater responsibility. On the one hand, I would like to say, by law, 2227, on the one hand, the processing of customs documents is extremely bureaucratic. At the same time, on the other hand, there is no illegal flow of goods over customs control. And it's not so much guilt here as customs or customs itself, in my opinion, but the system of power itself. When a country is not governed by law but by telephone law, when people in power often act out of their own interests rather than in the interests of the State. I'm deeply convinced that if government politicians didn't do their own business, but advocated the interests of the state, customs could double the collection of funds to the State Budget. So I'm going to say in the first part of the budget, which says that to shorten the customs documents to two days, this law deserves support in this regard. At the same time, I don’t understand how colleagues spoke here when the bill adds that a declarant, such as one of them, is obliged to obtain permits from the State Energy Savings Committee, which is written in parentheses, a positive conclusion of an expert opinion on documentation for the acquisition of energy-intensive technology, technology, and materials. And we know very well how positive expertise always costs something. Since no one needs to be positive, it is definitely positive. And one more thing. All right, they're buying a combination of a pretty powerful engine and stuff. That the state will declare and buy such a combination or another. Maybe the document developers, if you're talking about more energy-intensive technology, don't want to go too far from Mercedes and go on the trigger. It's full of nonsense. And why is the state today? For energy conservation, we are aware of these issues, so to speak. So I'd like, dear friends, to end with what we're going to be careful about making changes to any laws. And when it comes to 22,27, you could be supported in the first reading and only in the sense that the deadlines for the processing of customs documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, consideration. Just a minute. Consideration of draft laws 2227, 4544, 4544-1, 4373 completed. I'll put it to the vote now. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Customs Code on the Customs Processing of Goods. Registration number 2227. Take it off the vote. Please, from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'd like that. First Deputy Chief of Customs of Ukraine, Vanjuk Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. It's on the bill. The government cannot accept the bill. First, Bill 2227. The project limits the date of submission of documents. Two days. This cannot be due to the fact that today a sample analysis is needed to establish a product code that has a significant impact on government tax rates. The draft law conflicts directly with the 10 articles of the Customs Code of Ukraine. With regard to Bill 4544 on the change in the absence of a permit for processing, this bill is currently in conflict with an international convention that expressly provides for the granting of a permit, which today is an unburdened procedure and, on the contrary, protects the market and makes it impossible for today to import goods and its implementation in Ukraine's customs territory illegally. With regard to the amendments to Bill 4373 on the term of confiscation of goods and the establishment of a 12-month deadline, today this is totally inconsistent with the position set by the Arab and Brussels Conventions, where requests from customs authorities do not set deadlines. In this situation, we will be forced to make similar changes to article 59 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, where confiscation is timeless. And the adoption of this bill, maintenance of 4373, will cause economic damage to the state. Please take into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine. [[on the customs treatment of goods]] Registration number 2227. The author is national deputy Dobkin. [[17:49:43]] For-79 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending articles 230, 231, 235 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on Processing Products. Registration number 4544. The author is national deputy Skomarowski. [[17:50:16]] For 139 The decision is not taken. A draft Act amending articles 230, 231, 235 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the processing of processed products is put to the vote. Registration number 4544-1. The author is national deputy Demjohin. [[17:50:51]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, well, calm down. May I have your attention, please? The bill, registration number 4373, on the amendment to article 328 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the terms of confiscation of goods, the author of the national deputy of Ukraine, Skomarowski and the Kings. Authors. [[17:51:34]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, adopted on the basis of the bill, registration number 4544-1, bills 2227, 4544 and 4373 were rejected. A draft regulation on the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Act on the cessation of State participation in shareholder and holding companies is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3009. The Chernobyl Leonid Mikhailovich, please. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich will make a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected TV viewers! Our Ukraine faction, leader of the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. I want to draw your attention to a very important law that, thank God, has passed in Parliament, and with the support of this law we will solve many problems. What am I talking about? To ban public authorities, shareholders from participating in private holding companies and to transfer money there. It's a pure theft that flourishes in Ukraine today. These are billions of grevens, which, for example, the uninterested State creates its own bank, such as in Kiev, Krestatik, in which violent state companies and others participate. Then they move in, and with them people's contributions move in. Well, I'm only talking about banks, and we're talking about creation. How is stealing happening at the state level today? A large public company, which creates a million of every kind of daughter structure, transfers government money to the budget, well, which is partly budgeted, partly from other sources, and then appoints the people who deliberately steal the money from the treasury, and so we get the billed costs. It's just, well, it's crazy money: it's all of these and extra-budgetary funds that you can say here, and every community enterprise that's been bred and that, apart from our population's problems, doesn't create anything, and so on and so forth. I can give examples as much as I can. Please, you can challenge them. But you can't touch government money. In Russia, this issue is clearly resolved. As Putin arrived, he took and turned off oxygen to all companies with 25 per cent or more of government shares. [[That's what he was told.]] And it's simple. I don't know who to influence here, but please approach the button, because it's about billions of money that we can free from theft and give them to the deprived population, including the return of contributions and the increase of pensions, benefits and so on and so forth. This is the legal theft of public money. Please support my bill, it's important. And I don't think he's going to cause any trouble signing with the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u79	The deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property, and investment of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u80	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment considered, at its meeting, the draft decision of the Supreme Council by the People's MP of Ukraine on the preparation of the draft Act on the cessation of State participation in the activities of shareholders and holding companies. The draft regulation proposes that the Court of Auditors and the General Audit Administration be entrusted for a period of two months with the audit of the financial and economic activities of public, national, shareholding and holding companies and that the funds received from these companies to the State budget be determined. The findings on the feasibility of State participation in the activities of these companies under the project are requested to be submitted to the Committee of the High Council for Budget Affairs. The Committee, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, shall, if necessary, draft a law on the cessation of State participation in the activities of shareholders and holding companies. The Committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft regulation on the basis of one comment. The fact is that the draft law was registered as early as January 2003. There is therefore a proposal to increase the period 2002-2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Wait, what you want, I want a lot too, but it doesn't work out for me. Calm down, we know what they're doing. Calm down, please. There's a need to discuss this project, or do we just have to make a decision, it's a decision, it's not a law. Calm down, please. Insomnia, microphone. Then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u82	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I have no doubt that this draft decree will be voted on by you because it is clear to everyone that the State's participation in private business is nothing more than an administrative roof over the theft of state property. And I wouldn't take a word to convince you of that, because I also supported the committee, and I'm convinced that the different orientations of the MPs support it. I have a specific proposal that this draft regulation may be voted on even in general, but here is the third point, to entrust the Committee on Budget Affairs with Kabmin for a month if it is necessary to draft a law on the cessation of State participation in the activities of shareholders and holding companies. First of all, we cannot assign a committee that is not a subject. Oh, that's different. What to wait for, and it is so clear that it is necessary to do so. That's why I'm asking the authors to make such a law. The sooner we do this, the better without waiting for the House of Accounts checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u83	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Project 3009 registered on January 31, 2003. Montenegro's smart proposal to save the state budget was to go to the Supreme Council for a year and a half and a half, and at the same time these small projects are being carried out. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a question for us. And you and I have to take responsibility together for allowing us not to listen to the Chernewsky. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like these changes to be made here: I'd like to assign to the Chambers of Accounts and, or share with the IMF, the BSO and the DPA, along with them, along with those organs, because without them, believe me, you're not going to figure it out. The other one. For the communists, I can explain separately that it was for your support that you wouldn't let Chernewsky do it. Second offer. The Committee on Budget Affairs should be added to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption during the month in which it was written. This is his mandate as provided by the Law on the Fundamentals of Organised Crime. There is a direct prediction of what he should do. And according to the position we've confirmed with you. Therefore, these assignments should be recorded there. And then. I agree with the committee that the deadline should be extended. And as for what's going on, I've already given an example from this rostrum, I can give you numbers if you want. But right now, sit down well with those who run companies today. Because I'm going to name them all the rings that fall under it. And I'm asking you to respond responsibly today. The IMF, SBA, DPA are government authorities, let them draw their own conclusions, and we'll look at you and we'll know what to do next, how to manage this property. Janukovich may also know. And I beg you, this is where Putin was compared to our guarantor and Prime Minister. Well, I'm sorry, Putin hasn't sat down yet, thank God, and all his actions have been directed to improve the fate of Russia. And you know, there's a fight against organized crime in all its forms. And the prime ministers are assigned to the Security Service, not to those who sat twice in prison. It's a big difference in approach, you know, conceptually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u85	Yes, please. With one minute's motivation, your honor's colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u86	It's my motive. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, listen! Nobody, I'm the chairman of the budget subcommittee. No, if you don't vote this order in full, no one will give me any information, no one's interested in digging into it. And I assure you, we've been blacking out my bill for another year and a half, haven't we? Although it's very strange that, well, you'd seem to have to support it on the right hand side. They've been squeezing my bill. Not giving him a move, it's not good. None of the theft structures will give us any data. Vote in full for this order, and then make new decrees to 100 percent of the House of Auditors, and then they'll count on something. But I'm against planting someone. All that's gone is gone. Return the money now from the structures that remain and give it to the pensioners. And I speak to the Communists separately. Support my ruling as a whole, because that's what pensions include, otherwise you're going to take it back a year and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The time for discussion is over, please. Dear colleagues, in order to put to the vote a draft ruling in general, we need to take into account, please note, we cannot entrust the Chief Audit Authority, because it is subordinated to the Ministry of Finance, so we will go down to the very bottom. That's why we need to replace "deputy to the House of Accounts and Minfin." One minute, you listen to what I'm saying. Instead of writing Minfina, which is subordinated, I stress once again, removing the words "to entrust the Committee with budgetary matters," because he is not a subject of the legislative initiative. Write "to assign the Cabinet of Ministers for a month and beyond if necessary. With these proposals in mind, I immediately put to the vote on the adoption of the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the steps taken to prepare the draft Law. Take it off. And the 2003 addition, which was made by the deputy chairman of the committee of Vladimir Matviev. With these clarifications in mind, I am voting on the adoption of the entire draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the steps taken to prepare a draft Ukrainian Act on the cessation of State participation in the activities of shareholders and holding companies. [[Registration number 3009]] People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[18:04:51]] For 233 It's been decided. I ask the Secretariat and the Legal Office to finalize and prepare this law. The factions. One minute, I'm asking respectable colleagues not to scream, I can hear you so normal, let's work. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 92; "Regions of Ukraine" - 0; faction of Communists - 57; SDPU - 0; "Deminiciates", "The People's Government" - 8; "Trudova Ukraine" - 0; National Agrarian - 1; SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "The Union" - 14, NDP, Labour Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 6, "Centre" - 12, Postfraction - 4. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Patent Law on the acquisition of a special commercial patent is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3751. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say to you, why didn't all the factions vote? Since the Supreme Council cannot offer garbage, draft regulations must be prepared seriously. And this is a butterfly. Vojsz Vladimir Dmitrovich, reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u88	Honorary colleagues, Ukraine’s Small Business State Support Act, states that one of the ways to support small businesses is to provide benefits to its subjects. In order to implement this situation, it was introduced in Ukraine a system of simplified taxation of small businesses that gave impetus to its development. In the light of this attempt to cancel or limit the system of simplified taxation of small businesses, in our view, first of all, it contradicts the legislatively declared state support for small businesses, and second of all, it is hampered by development in Ukraine. During our 2004 budget review, we have already faced an attempt to cancel or substantially raise the sole and fixed tax. At that time, we had the wisdom to identify and reject such suggestions. The bill you are now proposing is intended to correct another mistake that has been made before, but has not yet been corrected. This is about changes to the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity, which have caused a number of problems. First of all, the cancellation of a special commercial patent has affected the interests of a large number of entrepreneurs, especially those involved in the resort business, making the conditions of taxation more difficult for them. Second, the interests of the local authorities have also been affected. According to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the decision to abolish special commercial patents not only violates the stability achieved in taxing the resort business and contributes to its Tinning, but greatly undermines the interests of many local communities in autonomy, since the revenues of their local budgets were more than a quarter of what was generated by the revenues from the implementation of the patents. It should also be noted that according to the budget commission of the Supreme Council of the ARC, the average tax burden on one entrepreneur for a patent is five thousand dollars per month, and the only tax and trading patent is about one and a half thousand. As we can see, it is a special patent that is the most advantageous form of simplified taxation for the State. Thus, the bill we have submitted has been prepared to resolve the above problems of taxation of business entities in the area of the resort business, which resulted from the cancellation of a special business patent. I want to point out that our bill is not lobbying, it's not lobbying the interests of solely entrepreneurs, it's called on to reconcile the interests of local budgets and small businesses. With regard to the shortcomings in the use of patents mentioned in the government's conclusions, in our view, as drafters of the bill, they are certainly important, but not important enough to give up such a form of simplified taxation at all. We believe that the identified flaws of a special patent can be removed when our draft law is revised to read second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u89	Vladimir Dmitrovich, thank you, too. Montenegrin Vladimir Kirilovich of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies and the Military. The aim of the bill is to preserve the stable financial and economic situation of the resort areas and create favourable conditions for the formation and development of a small resort business. The bill is extended to business entities engaged in activities defined in articles 3 and 3. The Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity and carrying out their activities on the territory of the resort region. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 5 / 22 In the year 03, the position of the second part of the first article, article 3.2, part 2 of article 6 and part 7-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities, which defines the concept of a special commercial patent. The focus is on this: a special trading patent: the order of purchase and accounting of the costs from the sale of special patents to the corresponding budgets and trust funds, the particulars of taxation for entrepreneurs who have acquired a special patent. All of this is prescribed in the law. The provisions of the law have been amended to extend the operation of a special commercial patent only to entrepreneurs operating in resort areas. Focus on this: entrepreneurs who work in resort regions. The adoption of this law, according to the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, is particularly relevant in connection with the decrease of up to 13 percent of the income tax for natural persons. And they believe that this will help solve the problem of filling local budgets. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity, introduced by Deputys France and Vojsz on the basis of the first reading. [[on a special commercial patent]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u91	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. Let's move on to the discussion. These included George Carmazin, the Immortal, the Payer’s, and the Seminoga. I'm sorry, Bespaly. I mean, get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this was an example of Crimea. In Odessa there are resorts, there are resorts in the Mikolai district, there are resorts in Prikarpata, in Zakarpat, there are resorts many. In Herson, I said, there are many resorts. So I would like us to adopt this law, and I think we should adopt it in the first and second readings today, there's nothing left to do, we have to do, because then it'll be late when we adopt it, it'll be late, we'll lose money from the State Budget, the money will go dark. So you have to adopt this law, it will at any rate make life easier for the citizens who, after the visit, please, there must be a government minister in connection with the Supreme Council: please contact Yanukovitch urgently and tell him that they will moan because they are now blocked for two hours by people, people standing in the heat, cursing in the last words. What are you doing? Stop bullying people! The resort areas are covered - everything is waiting for the arrival of Janukovich the High! Stop with these arrivals! Let's do our road traffic law, after all, and we'll do it! Please contact Yanukovic. You can't bully Odessa like that, it's a hero city. And he will never hide from Spain. Costs derived from the sale of special commercial patents are five percent of the state budget, 67 percent of the local government budget is proposed in this law. This means that all cities, all towns, will rise as the grass rises after the rain. People are good, isn't that bad for anyone? That's why I'm proposing. I'm going to cut back, and I'm not going to take all the time to analyze this bill. I ask you to vote in favour, and urgently, and immediately, and in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u93	Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u94	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to another general situation. Why do we have to adopt the Special Trade Patent Act right now in the middle of the resort season? I think it's a recognition of the fact that, under non-special conditions today, it's just impossible to do business. And this observation is that we can't help but worry. Tomorrow, the law on the registration of business subjects, which introduces a single registration window, enters into force. There's also content going on just so much conflicting information and I'm going to go to the profile committee right now to look at and generalize all this information so that again we don't have a situation where we are immediately in the midst of the resort season, we have to solve directly in an emergency order the gaps that have created the government and most for entrepreneurs. As to whether this law should be passed immediately, as a whole, or in the first reading. There's really a dilemma here, on the one hand, to accept it, if we just take it as a basis right now, we don't actually have time to work on it. Because this is the last sessional week. We don't have time to look at the second reading or this resort season will be stopped. On the other hand, there are positions that should be carefully reviewed, particularly with regard to imports in Ukraine. When under the very good slogans, the very good intentions are to create such a boundary that either the subcontractors are imported here, and the imports that simply pushes the Ukrainian manufacturer, or the other way around, are exported from Ukraine. So I think we could now accept this project in the first reading and go back to that question, but at least give one, two days to look closely at the committee. I think such a pause would be necessary. Because it is very common that such rhetoric creates windows in the state border of Ukraine through which money is not needed and money is flowing from Ukraine. So in support of the whole idea, of course, I think just a little pause, literally one for two days would help make this project more quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u95	Platinum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u96	Vladimir Zaplatinski, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow MPs! Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities has been prepared to address problems of taxation of small business entities arising from the cancellation of a special business patent. The bill proposes to renew the commercial patent as an experiment in the resort areas. which are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by agreement with the relevant authorities of local self-government. It is planned that the experiment will take effect until January 1, 2007, perhaps with further expansion to all regions of Ukraine. In 2003, changes were made to the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity. These changes have invalidated the right of entrepreneurs, both legal and physical, to use a special commercial patent. The introduction of such changes to legislation has led the economy to a number of major challenges in their development. According to the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Small Business, the aim of State support is to establish aid schemes for small business entities. The abolition of the right of business entities to work for special commercial patents is contrary to the provisions of the Law on State Support for Small Business. The most negative cancellation of a special commercial patent has affected small businesses in the resort areas of Ukraine. Crimean small businesses relied on a simplified system of taxation of business entities based on the use of special commercial patents. These are thousands of small entrepreneurs, mostly natural persons, who, because of the contrast of a special commercial patent, have almost no means of subsistence. The complex situation in the area of employment also needs to be taken into account. According to previous estimates, the cancellation of the special patents will cost Crimea’s local budgets between 9 million and 12 million dollars in the current year. The budget for the Autonomous Republic received 32 million dollars a year from the patent. Small entrepreneurs are forced to move on to the normal cumbersome tax system. According to the faction, the bill must be supported. And the timely adoption of this bill depends on maintaining a stable financial economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u97	Thank you. Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u98	Anatoly Seminoga, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. The bill proposes an experiment in the areas of the resort regions to apply a special commercial patent. With a view to stimulating small business development in 1998, a special trade patent was introduced by the Ukrainian Law on Patenting of Certain Business Activities instead of Most Taxes, Congregations, which was paid by entrepreneurs who carried out the activities provided for by the law. Its advantage was that it allowed for the sale of goods under excise duty. The experience of applying this law has demonstrated the effectiveness of such a form of taxation for entrepreneurs. In addition, the introduction of such a tax has allowed for a substantial increase in local budgets. Last year a special trade patent was cancelled by amendments to the Budget Law. As a result, local budgets receive considerable sums. The problem of filling local budgets has become particularly relevant in the following year, as from January 1, 2004, taxes on the income of natural persons have dropped to 13 percent. And income from tax forms a major part of such budgets. The adoption of the proposed bill will at least partially help to solve these problems, since 67 percent of the proceeds of a special trading patent will be included in local budgets. I propose to support the bill in its first reading and in its entirety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u99	The discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on patenting certain types of entrepreneurial activity for the acquisition of a special commercial patent, registration number 3751. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:23:52]] For 210 The decision is not taken. There is a bill on the return of Ukrainian citizens' money savings due to the coming of funds from the privatization of State property, registration numbers 4093 and 4093-1. Demjochin and Zaplański. Please, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The bill, which has been submitted to your attention, aims to increase the rate of reimbursement to the population of contributions to savings. During the five years of the Act on State Guarantees and Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens, it was adopted in 1997, only 955 million were paid, that is, one percent of the declared commitments. The law has both a social, social and economic dimension. Because by restoring savings to people, we thus create purchasing power in the population. And that money will return to our industry, that is, the person who gets the money will buy the housing, will pay off the debts of the utilities. We have recently spent the Government's Day on housing and utilities with you, and we have heard that a large amount of debt has been accumulated by a utilities company. Why? This is not a return on money, saving the population is one of the components of debt formation. That is to say, by intensifying the recovery process, we also stimulate the country's economy. In parallel with Bill 4093, the law of Zaplatinsk was passed by a colleague of Law 4093-1. We came to the view, together with Vladimir Mihajlović, that these two laws could be adopted as a basis of 44093, which I am reporting, and in preparing for the second reading, take into account its main provisions. Once again, Bill 4093 proposes that at least 50 per cent of the funds received from privatization be allocated for savings. We are well aware that the privatization plan is under way today. Moreover, prior to 2008, the privatization programme provides for the completion of all privatization in the country. So we can't miss a chance to pay off the debt of the population. I ask that, honourable colleagues, support this bill, adopt it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u101	Thank you. Please, Plastinski. Bill 4093-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, a bill has been drafted today to determine the general principles for the use of funds derived from the privatization of state property. The main task is to avoid breaches of existing legislation regarding the manner in which appropriate funds are used from privatization to budget. In addition, it is suggested that certain directions be adopted that are of a national nature and require the necessary current funding to ensure the stability and security of our nation. The bill sets out the general principles for the use of funds derived from the privatization of state property and other revenues directly linked to privatization and regulates relations in this area. Besides that. the general directions for the use of the funds received from privatization are defined. One of the most important things, I think, is the accumulation and storage of petroleum products in the State Material Reserve. Lately, what happened in the oil market requires us to do so. And it's planned to rule five percent of the total revenue. In addition, like his colleague Demöchin reported, debt accounting, and 10 percent of the loan is proposed to pay off the debt after the return of the citizen’s savings. The purchase of food grain. That's what the nonsense was. And we have to avoid that, which is what we're going to go about four percent of this revenue. The formation of a state reserve seed fund is two percent. Providing vitality and explosive fire to base arsenals and stockpiles of weapons, missiles, and ammunition from the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Grief that has occurred also indicates that this problem needs to be solved and 7 percent is proposed to be set aside from these revenues to solve the problem. Social protection for children with disabilities from childhood -- 3 percent, innovative investment in state-owned enterprises -- 5 percent, implementation of energy and resource-efficient projects -- 5 percent, development and implementation of environmental programs -- order 8 percent. It is planned to target half of the arrivals, or 49 percent. 51 percent to send other programs that are strategically relevant to the security of the state. This project does not need any material investments, so please support it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u103	Thank you. Shall we vote? Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u104	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! As we spoke to you, a child of 38 could not be brought to the airport because the Prime Minister was said to have sat down to eat. Please contact the Prime Minister, tell him Carmazin wishes him well, but let the child pass, you know, to the hospital at a temperature of 38 in Odessa. Stop bullying the Odessa! I'm also talking to the militia, so don't let them follow stupid instructions. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was to be considered at the same time as the bills that had already been tabled: the return of savings to the population of Ukraine -- this is the bill of the late Pavlovsky and Yulia Timoshenko, amending the Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Citizens' Savings of Ukraine -- this bill was tabled by National Deputy Valentina Seminouk. And along with these bills, this bill had to be passed in a complex, it would work. So far, this is what it is -- I'm going to vote for it, I'm going to say I'm going to vote for it, but the economics is very simple: let's sell it faster, let's give it up. All the property is sold out. And we got, there's not as much property as we need. 130 billion needs to be recovered, and today what can we sell? So it's not consistent, it's not the mechanism. And besides, to give priority to the age of people -- I can't say that someone didn't live, my parents didn't live to get them back, someone else did, but the Constitutional Court said by their decision back in 2001, that all citizens of Ukraine are the same, and we can't make any prerogatives for them in the article. That is why this is the Constitutional Court's decision in case number 13 IP-2001 of 10.10.2001 on the State guarantees for the recovery of Ukrainian citizens' savings. [[I'm talking about the transcript.]] So I propose to adopt this law, but then to amend the Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Citizens' Savings, which is active. Foresee the projects that were implemented: Semenyuk, Timoshenko, Simonenko, other deputies. And they'll work together. This law, apart from populism, will, unfortunately, not give itself. Although I say again, I'm going to vote in favour. And I think my colleagues in the faction "Our Ukraine" will also vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u105	Please, Yavorowski. Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u106	Dear voters, distinguished fellow national MPs! Our artillery with you will soon be on vacation, and we are, indeed, now picking up some of the last crumbs. When I hear about saving, I start to remember and say to myself, "Lord, how many national deputies, how many politicians have used this notion of "returning savings" to improve their political careers and their personal lives. And in fact, today we're stopping at the tiny 50 bracelets that we're trying to bounce off, literally from a huge crowd that's hoping for the money that's been made. I understand that they would have been spent a long time ago, but anyway. Because I am convinced that today we need to realistically think about whether this money can be returned or not? I answer that question: there is a possibility. The first possibility is that we live in a state where more than 50 percent is all shadowy. The shadow economy, the shadow politics, the shadow power, the shadow cabinet of the ministers, he's sitting in the bank, he's the same Cabinet of Ministers, he's not responsible for anything at all. For bribes only to be approached. It is, therefore, that we cannot wait on the authority of any of the things. I've been thinking a lot about this in person, and I think that really, what we're talking about today, we've hit a tenth. We need some of these funds from privatization, because they're going to go anyway, either to Yanukovich's election, or they're going to hide them, or they're going to transfer them to those other seven billion who have been kidnapped there that haven't legalized. Yes, it is. That's why it's so good. But there's a second version that I'd like to talk about from this rostrum. I've prepared such a bill, it's been on the Desert Girl Committee for a long time. We have to be brave and go to this thing. It's not very popular, I'm just stressing very clearly that no one speculates about it. It's a real estate tax. But it's not about the apartments we have in town, it's not about the country houses. The villas and buildings that had been built since 1991 must be clearly marked and surrounded today by all the large cities and towns. Sometime there are my calculations, and my team that we can tax them today, we won't be able to prove where that money was stolen. And they're usually stolen. So to estimate these houses and a certain percentage, this should be voted on as you decide to set up a real estate tax. That's why I'm going to vote for this bill. I don't think there'll be any people who won't vote for this bill. If we add this second one that I said, we can solve this problem, I think that's what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u107	Baranovsky, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u108	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. We, socialists, are impressed that those factions that had previously blocked the adoption of the issue of increasing funding for the return of lost savings today act as authors of certain laws. Perhaps the election has become more understood, and they have grown in love with their own people. The Socialist Party has been fighting for 10 years. We've been constantly drafting bills to get the privatisation money to pay off the savings, we've been making bills to make some of the commercial banks' profits go away, the real estate tax go up, the payments go up right from the budget. In the 2005 Budget Resolution, we suggested that we increase to a minimum of 2 billion dollars. Unfortunately, it was not supported by the majority. Bills are now constantly coming in to make changes to the list of privatizations for certain businesses. That is, remove from the list that is not privatized. This means that there are already ready buyers. 4, 2 billion from the Creatures, black clouds are already hanging over Odessa's Portal, the Crucifixion, above the shipbuilding industry. So everything wants to be privatized just before the presidential election. Maybe we should suffer a little bit, run an election, and then continue privatization? Socialists are voting in favour of this law, supporting it in order to channel more money than privatization to return savings. We're here to prove that there's at least 80 billion dollars in financial security to pay back, so that in 10 years this problem can be solved. Because these costs are going to go into the development of the Ukrainian economy. And, honourable deputies from most of them! We would not only ask you to introduce a bill today, and we will support it, but please agree with the President not to make a commitment. Maybe even if we make presidential elections for our people who have lost their last savings, we can give them some relief in their lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u109	Thank you. Please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u110	Dear People's Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ginsburg Communist faction, 161 constituency. The issue of the return of savings that have been stolen from the people is 132 billion. It was always a reason to get points in the conduct of election companies. I see this problem today in two of these directions, that's the first. Our electorates, our citizens of Ukraine today, are suffering from this, they feel a violation and injustice of the State's attitude towards it. This feeling in every family in every single family that makes money in Soviet times is happening today. Another problem is the State. How the problem is being addressed and how it is being addressed. If this is the problem of the State, does it stand first? And whether it could decide the State in the face of the Cabinet of Ministers and the President and what approach it was taking on that issue. Waiting for who will pass this law today and whether we vote for it or not, or by taking any action. For our sake, for the last time, the Communist faction had submitted such bills to the Supreme Council, and the Socialist faction had submitted them. Other MPs have passed these bills. They did not pass, but there were very normal proposals. So, for example, when you had to do an analysis of these deposits, you know, how many people today have 3,000 roubles, how many times 5,000, who had a million in???, who has 20,000 people, and who are 90 years old, who are sick, who are indebted to utilities, and who can make a decision on how to make a recovery. Well, to do that, you just have to have a desire, to get there, to sit down, to talk, and to have a desire to solve this problem. and, if so, that we are taking out the hall today, and we therefore intend to earn our points, the problem remains with our citizens. And we have no right to play with this problem. I propose today, of course, to support this law from the Communist faction, because there is no other way out, at least a small step needs to be taken. But I highly doubt that it will push this problem out of place and invite candidates to the Presidents who today have access to power to take such a step, to solve this problem, and will be chosen tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u111	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption of the Return of Ukrainians Money Savings Act on the basis of the coming of funds from the privatization of state property. [[Registration number 4093]] Please vote. [[18:42:23]] For 389 A decision has been made. Maybe we should just vote like the law right now? Is there a denial? Now, now, please, Shibko, Assadchev. Chibko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u112	Sibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, town of Dnepropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, we have now done a very good thing that not only speaks of populism but also of our desire. But I would like to draw your attention, because the introduction of this rule requires a revision of the Budget Code. The Budget Code does not provide for a special article in this regard. Can you imagine if we vote now without first reading, where this money will go? Half of them may be upset, and the other may be handed over to people. It is therefore necessary to refrain from voting in order to cooperate specifically with the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u113	Likely, Vitaliy, there is no connection to each other. We adopt one law, and then others make changes. That's a little bit. Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u114	Dear friends, first of all, I want to say that I did not vote in favour of this bill. And I don't want to fool my citizens. Because if you vote back savings from just one source, it's going to be a lot less than it's coming back from all the sources. You'll be re-planned tomorrow. Excuse me, two billion. And what is 10 percent? That's 200 million. And today, 500 million. Let's count it all. Next year we're planning to bet about two billion, but from all sources, from the entire budget. And you want to vote on just one of the privatizations that there's nothing left to sell. So the government is only going to thank you for that, because this is going to be a small amount. It's much better to set interest rates than, say, budget expenditure, but all expenses. So I think let's do the second reading. But it's better not to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u115	Thank you. There is a denial, it means accepting in the first reading. There's a draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the Special Economic Zone of Mikolai. Registration number 4388. Please report to Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. Special Economic Zone Bill, Amendments to the Bill. The main objective of these changes is to resolve the issues raised by the implementation of the “Nikolay” Special Economic Zone Act. We held a retreat meeting of the committee in Nikolayev, in Herson, at the shipyards. And I want to tell you that not only have they been members of our committee, they have also been members of the Committee on Finance and Banking. This is Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, his district directly, Nikolayev. What did we see? There's a long dispute. Special economic and priority development zones are good or bad? So this is what we saw in Nikolayev, I want to tell you, it's great. Because the firm that is standing up to now is 14 simultaneously vessels, what we have seen with our own eyes is more than 10,000. These are the higher cost of housing in the area where the daminship plant is located. Why? Because people started to get good wages, there were stable orders, and income taxes alone amount to a reasonable amount. That is, the same consumer demand arose for the population in Nikolayev. And, dear colleagues, today it is necessary to support the Daminshinpyat, the zone of Nikolayev, because this is an example of investment work, an example of a high-tech industry that is science-intensive, such as shipbuilding, which has been developed through the preferences they have received as a result of the implementation of the law. I very much ask you to support this bill. It is only about reducing the qualification requirements for minimum investments so that the investment package can be expanded, giving more responsibility to the regional administration, the special economic zone, so that new investment can be more rapidly developed. Once again, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u117	Thank you. From the committee, deputy head of the committee, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u118	The President-in-Office of the People's Deputies proposed a bill amending the Law on the Special Economic Zone of Nikolaev, as the rapporteur has already said, to reduce the qualification requirements for minimum investment in investment instrumentation projects, to establish qualification requirements for joint production of the shipbuilding industry, to exempt taxes on the added value of the import operations into the special economic zone of Nikolaev from the raw materials and materials. This greatly specifies and clarifies the provisions of the Special Economic Zone Act, which we have adopted with you in due course. Thus, in article 6, the first part of the list of productions of special economic zone entities for investment projects has a qualification plan of $700,000, i.e. construction, energy and transport are added to the equipment. It also establishes new qualification requirements for sub-contracting, assembly and hand-in-handling enterprises for $200,000. This also specifies these productions, i.e. construction, assembly and launching. It is proposed to grant the right of the Nikolai authorities to agree by means of an additional contract to modify the core indicators of an investment project not exceeding 10 per cent. It is proposed to amend article 9 of Part 1, which provides that the special customs zone regime is introduced after the necessary conditions are created, i.e. the territorial fence, the establishment of the administration and the services. The amendments to article 10 provide for the release from VAT of commodities and materials imported by entities of the special economic zone of Nikolaiev and placed in the territory of the shipyards for investment projects. Paragraph 11 of the same article amended as advance payments and advance payments and loans received by enterprises in the special economic zone of Nikolayev aimed at the construction of contract vessels. The Committee on Economic Policy considered the proposed changes and recommends, on first reading, the adoption of a draft law amending the Law on the Special Economic Zone “Nikolayev”.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u119	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Then, please, let's maybe give it a little less than two minutes. Carmazine, get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u120	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! It was the protection of the country that was the main task of Mikolayev, who produced the best ship in the world, in which no new ship was now installed for the Ukrainian Navy, and the old, you know how it is built and built. You heard that when Eugene Marchuk reported here. The same today with the work of this free economic zone. What are we talking about now? The point is that we can work for those who want to import things legally, because today we have only smuggled businesses. And I'll tell you, the government is promoting smuggling. Why: and it's more convenient: that's where the tax goes, one container runs -- tax goes around, 12 and a half thousand dollars on average goes to a container of what goes into the shadow economy. And the question is, what better to do is to make some kind of a little help right now to go into investment? No, we just need big investments. There are now 48 million United States dollars. And lowering the minimum investment threshold to a real level of $200,000 is not a small investment. It'll just reveal the potential of this area and create the conditions for a normal production in this area. Next: Fitting. 700,000 dollars is offered. It's also a normal offer. The only thing I don't like about this bill is that I don't really like it, and I'm going to tell the authors of this law directly, is that they're giving the Mikolai government powers to agree on and make changes. Why? Because the government always does the political will of the authority that appointed it, because it does not rely on the trust of the people, no one chooses it. It depends only on the chief chancellor of the country and then on the President of the State. Therefore, I would not give any further authority to the Mikolai government, sufficient authority as defined by law. But this law can and should be adopted in view of the need to amend the Public Budget Act and the Budget Code. I'm here to help us develop our own production.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u121	Please, Baranowski, follow him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u122	Socialist faction, Baranowski. I'm in favour of developing our industries, but I'm against the anti-national, anti-State laws that were offered to us today in the free economic zone in Santa. Please tell me we have a new kind of business today in Ukraine. At first, we create a concession, and then we take shipbuilding enterprises off the list for privatization, which today the law does not allow them to privatize. As long as they work in public property today, there is no need for benefits, and this is already being prepared for future privatization. That's the first one. The other one. Tell me, dear, which one of you doesn't know which hole in the budget every free economic zone. I'm giving you an example, five months this year, of the benefit that the free economic zone in Donetsk has paid it 2.8 billion dollars. Perhaps we should give up this privilege and set aside these funds to recover our savings. Something for the population to help. One more. Today, we have granted a car builder’s allowance, and remember, we recently voted with you here. It costs a billion dollars a year, and then 40 percent of the car stores were used. How are we going to explain this? And we're giving benefits, we're making good intentions, we're putting our people on the road to hell. One more. I've studied experience abroad in the same England, and there are also benefits to certain businesses, but it clearly states that, for the benefit of the costs that remain in your enterprise, you have to send them to a specific program, such as upgrades to your machine park, equipment, technology and so on. And if you have used at least one portion of this benefit not by appointment, it is today a violation of budgetary legislation and it is a criminal responsibility. So a penny a State gives a benefit, it's all the same way that money is allocated from the budget to one or the other enterprises. Give us a measure of relief, complete uncontrolledness, and then whoever wants to do with it. Dear colleagues! Can you do that? So I call on you, and the Socialist Party will never do that, you can't do that. We need to do everything with our minds, with our heads, for the good of Ukraine, not for the benefit of some individual clans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u123	Thank you. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u124	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like, first of all, to point out that, I asked myself, "Why did I vote so carefully for the majority to work until seven o'clock?".. Now I have the answer: To go unnoticed, these are strictly lobbying laws. This law can't be defined otherwise. This is a lobby law designed to provide large or small amounts of money from Ukraine’s budget. I'm going to point out one more aspect. What is the free economic zone? The free economic zone is a customs hole. Because of this free economic zone, hundreds of millions of dollars and tens of millions of dollars will be washed away, so that just the goods that are being imported as investments are being imported, the commercial investments are being imported. If necessary for the development of any production in free economic zones and then, literally, within a few steps of that economic zone, they are sold in shops and shops. Therefore, we do not need to give anyone here the world’s experience that China has a free economic zone or anywhere. Let's do the opposite. Can we put this whole free economic zone all over Ukraine? No, it's not. So why do we have to reduce it to a separate Santa? Talking about what it will reveal will increase the power of mycolay ships that we will have to build ships. That is also not true. It's about housing in that area. I don't know, maybe it's been a long time. But that doesn't mean raising the standard of living in Santa in general and securing the budget of coming from the free economic zone. Right, this is an investment, the budget is investing in the free economic zone. This is translated from one pocket into another. It only comes out of the government pocket and is translated into private pockets. And I would like all of these here to be represented by MPs, and be aware that everyone who press the button -- yes, it will be written in that he voted in favour of a clear lobby law. And in general, it's a disgraceful phenomenon in the Supreme Council to consider the free economic zone, and we've survived this age. What free economic zones in a country run by an out-of-the-boxer. Well, what are we talking about? Ukraine has already been transformed into a criminal zone, and we still want to make free economic zones in this criminal country to make criminal criminals feel not only comfortable, but we could still make money on the state budget, we could make money on small pensions on small wages. Of course, people rejoice in Santa Claus that they have been given the opportunity to install imported equipment on imported ships. But I'm going to point out that this law has no right to pass through the Supreme Council if it's not set at 7 o'clock, 7.15 o'clock, 21 o'clock, we don't have the right to rely on fatigue. This law is lobbyist and anti - state.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u125	Thank you. I will continue the session until the end of this matter. Please, Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. I'd like to say that the free special economic zone of Mikolai is the only special economic zone that builds ships, it doesn't make, it doesn't release meat, it doesn't make liquor and stuff. That's the first one. It's different. I am very sorry that when my colleagues do not know what the situation is, they also speak from this high rostrum. What our ships are doing. I want to give you an example. Before the adoption of the Free Economic Zone Act, the Ocean factory was paying $250,000 of income tax to the budget, and today it's paying 24 million dollars of income tax. Think about it, 5,000 jobs. The Dutch closed the last Suderf in their home and moved it to Mikolai. We need to go, Your Honor, look in the eyes of the people, and then tell them if they need this area or not. I'm calling on you all to vote, because these are workplaces, the only area that paid taxes more than it did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u127	Thank you. For the reasons of the vote, Kuzmuk. Kuzmuk's microphone and we'll be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, I'll remind you, I'll give you some examples. In 1999, I worked at the Ocean Factory. Pay in the form of a bottle of mineral water and a loaf of bread. Today's salary is between 8,000 and 9,000 dollars. Is that bad? Is it bad when the state only received $50 million in investment? Is it bad if there are seven projects that will be implemented at the expense of enacting the law? And is it wrong for the district administration to exercise control, as it should? And it's bad enough that at the Ocean factory today, 17 ships were ordered in the portfolio when the Soviet Union had a maximum of 12. So that makes it possible for us to develop. And I strongly ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m1.u129	Thank you. Let's vote as much as we do. I'm voting for the adoption on the basis of the Amendment Act of Ukraine on the Special Economic Zone of Mikolayev, registration number 4388. [[19:03:01]] For 260 Decision taken. Maybe the whole thing? There's a denial. In the first reading. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 9, "Regions of Ukraine" - 57, Communists - 58, Social Democrats - 35, "Democratic Initiatives" - 24, "Trudova Ukraine" - 28, National Agrarian Party - 13, Socialists - 1, Timoshenko - 0, Union - 16, NDP, industrials, entrepreneurs 15, Center - 1, non-fractional - 3. Dear colleagues, this evening's session is closed. Tomorrow we continue our work at 10 o'clock.
