ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Please be prepared for registration by your distinguished colleagues. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:26]] Registered -418 There were 418 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, this is June 22nd. Even 63 years ago, the Great Homeland War began. Today, it is a day of mourning and honoring the memory of war victims. I would like to honor the memory of the heroes and victims of this terrible war. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Resnik Igor Josipovich and Widow Hennady Josipovich. Let's welcome them, we want all kinds of goodies. Honourable People's Deputies, on June 17, 2004, the Central Election Commission registered Kisse Anton Ivanovich, National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on May 30, 2004, in the interim election of the Ukrainian People's Deputy in the 1-seat constituency No. 136. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. Kisse Anton Ivanovich, a national deputy of the Ukraine, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the benefits of the homeland and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let us congratulate Anton Ivanovich on his membership in the parliamentary family. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, two factions of our Ukraine and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc require a 30-minute recess or a right to make a statement on this matter. What will be your opinion? Please, who's going to make the statement? Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! On Saturday, a very important English edition of Independent published shocking information. This edition has evidence from the Attorney General's Office, criminal records, evidence of experts who testify to President Kuchma's direct involvement in the murder of George Gongadze. This evidence shows that the Attorney General of Vasiliev is doing his best today to destroy the evidence in this case. He's after the investigators who handled the case. In addition, experts have confirmed that his authority in the investigative cells kills people who are dangerous to the authorities. This is true of the murder of Goncharov and others. What's more, the Attorney General's office confirmed yesterday that they had a suspect who killed George Gongadze. Unfortunately, they can't emphasize this information, but they said the killer's last name starts with the letter "K." Then, fellow officials, the Attorney General’s Office stops all investigations involving the persecution of national deputies, the production of cases related to the falsification of local elections, as was the case in Mukachev, and the election to the Supreme Council. Therefore, the faction of the Julia Timoshenko Block, the faction of Victor Yushchenk "Our Ukraine" requires not later than tomorrow morning to hear the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Vasiliev, regarding the fight against crime in Ukraine. Next, listen to the head of the commission investigating the murder of George Gongadze and other crimes committed by the authorities of Gregory Omelchenk, as well as to hear the head of the State Department on the punishment of Mr. Ljovcken for the killings in the penitentiary Ukrainian system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Tuesday's schedule. We will be the first to look at information from the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the constitutional powers it has exercised in the field of defence. Secretary of Defence Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, co-rapporteur with the National Security and Defence Committee Georgi Korniovich Kručkov. The committee proposes the following rules of procedure: information by the Defence Minister in 15 minutes, answers to questions -- up to 10 minutes, reports by the Head of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence -- in 10 minutes, statements by 20 minutes, as well as giving the floor to the head of the National Court of Auditors, Valentin Simonek. Is there no objection? No, thank you. Please, Rudzkowski from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u6	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Given that, in fact, information has come out that is leaking information from the Attorney General's Office about the details of the Gongadze investigation, which confirms the specific involvement of officials in these matters, we would probably need to hear more details on this issue. That's the first one. Second, there's information in the media that it's kind of a detained person who took George's head and cut off his head earlier. It's a nightmare. It's that, periodically, this person cuts off their heads, then lets them go again, cuts off their heads and so on. If there is such information, I would ask that you give the commission and inform the National MP how many more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u7	Thank you. U.S. Secretary of Defense Marcuk Evgen Kirilović has the floor for the report. Please, Eugene Kirilovich. The Cabinet of Ministers has been authorized to report to the Minister of Defence, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I would like to express my sincere appreciation for the fact that, despite intensive legislative work, the Supreme Council has found an opportunity to include in the order of today’s meeting the issue of the government’s activities in carrying out constitutional powers in the field of defence. To date, the government has largely succeeded in achieving an appropriate legislative hierarchy that regulates government action in the field of defence and includes the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security and Defence, military doctrine, draft decrees of the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's strategic and defensive ballot until 2015 and a list of real and potential threats to national security in the military sphere and tasks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces approved by the Council of National Security and Defence. Appropriate adjustments have been made to the National Programme for Reform and Development of the Armed Forces until 2005. The Ukrainian State Border Service Act and the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the conversion of internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs into non-military formation have initiated the process of demilitarization and transformation of internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Border Service into law enforcement bodies with special status. Given the importance and importance of the tasks of ensuring the security and national security of Ukraine, the President. The Presidential Order of Ukraine of 4 March 2003 established the State Commission for the Reform of the Development of the Armed Forces, Other Military Forces, Armed Forces and Military Technology under the leadership of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. During its work, fundamental and key problems in the defense of the state and the determined ways of solving them were addressed. For the first time in years of independence last year, the defence budget was funded by 100 percent of the planned budget. In the current year, with the support of the Supreme Council, we have set out the largest budget in years of independence, which in the first half of the year is fully funded. In order to create a state-wide defence and planning system, to improve transparency in the design of defence programs, to create a defence budget for Ukraine at the initiative of the government, a draft law on the organization of defence planning was developed. A draft strategic bulletin, which I said was approved by the Security Council, has been finalized in Ukraine. In order to automate the defence planning and defence review process, an information and analysis system of Resource Defense Planning has been developed that has no parallels in post-Radians space and not only. Taking into account the methods and standards of leading European and global countries, the optimal structure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces model 2015 was developed, the costing of keeping them in all directions of activity was calculated, according to the forecasting indicators, the distribution of state budget expenditure for the transitional period and these projections approved by the government as the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation. In order to maintain a defined level of resilience, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have reviewed functions, tasks, and the number of functional structures. In doing so, the combined rapid - reaction forces were given priority. In order to activate this process, the President of Ukraine issued an order on urgent measures to accelerate the reduction of the overall size of the Armed Forces and the creation of a unified rapid response force. In 2003-2004, under the actual existence of the food budget, the full and planned financing of the combined rapid response force was able to achieve significant disruptions in the preparation of all components of this structure. In addition, the main focus was on the assembly of military and military units by contract, providing them with the most combatable modernized weapons and military equipment, material and technical equipment. Practically in the full range of designated compounds and military units, preparations have been made for the 2004 winter schooling period, but this still stands at 5 percent of the total strength of the Armed Forces. At the final stage of the reform, the number of rapid - response forces — the combined force — will be 16 percent. With the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, the structural reconstruction of the Armed Forces from four-species to three-species was initiated, but there are also a number of complex problems. The creation of a new species will allow you to focus under the sole direction all the forces and tools that are designed to perform certain tasks in airspace, optimize the structure, the warehousing, the number, the number of weapons and the military technology, simplify the material and technology systems and 40 percent, I emphasize, reduce the cost of maintaining one species compared to the maintenance of two species. Ukraine’s Armed Forces Management System has been improved. In particular, with a view to improving the efficiency of the Ministry of Defence and General Staff, their structures, mandates, functions, tasks have been clarified. And by the decree of the State Commission, they are approved, as well as by the Cabinet of Ministers. In order to monitor the situation in the Armed Forces, including during peacekeeping tasks, the Ukrainian Armed Forces General Headquarters has an operational emergency response centre. According to the 2001 concept of a single automated armament system for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, a set of automated systems for the management of everyday activities of the Armed Forces called Dnipro and Carpathians has been developed. Despite the lack of funding for scientific research, resources have been found to develop and implement information and analysis systems into the vitality of the military, to plan and provide for the mobilization of what is called "Stwall", a personal accounting of the special warehouse "Personal", the armed forces "Cheremšina". In order to ensure that the State border is intact, to prevent non-admission and to localize possible crisis situations, the main problems facing the organization of interaction with the State Border Service and other power structures of the state are identified. The Ministry of Defence, together with representatives of the central executive authorities, has begun work on the identification of the number of important subjects of the State that are covered up by terrorist attacks from the air and on the setting of radio field parameters for the permanent rotation in the PPO system. Ukraine’s armed forces are actively involved in the overall process of strengthening world security and stability. This allows us to put into practice interactions with the Armed Forces of other countries in the world and to gain invaluable practical experience in the use of troops in peacekeeping and humanitarian work. To date, an international contractual base has been developed in the military sphere with 53 countries around the world. Members of the Armed Forces participate in 13 international peacekeeping missions. The multilateral and bilateral international cooperation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is actively being implemented. In addition to the implementation of the Partnership for Peace Programmes, border cooperation with neighbouring countries is being carried out within the framework of the Trust Promotion Programme, which is with Romania, Belarus, Poland and Hungary, in particular the engineering battalion Tissa, the Blackifor Naval Union and the special battalion Ukrapolbat. Since 2002, a joint Ukrainian-American strategic military game has been launched. " Dnipro" on improving procedures, preparing and applying peacekeeping contingents. Further positive developments are under way in cooperation with the Russian Federation on the task of counter-air defence and training their crews on the aircraft at the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The Cabinet of Ministers has done a great deal of work in developing a state mobilisation plan for a special period that takes into account modern realities and new military and scientific research. This will be the first mobilisation plan in the history of our nation that will be completed in 2005 according to the decree of the President of Ukraine. The Ministry of Defence is in the process of creating a new military reserve of human resources. A draft Ukrainian Reserve Service Act and Presidential Decree on the structure of a military reserve of human resources. Gradually, the problem of professionalization of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is being solved. During the years 2003-2004, a package of measures was carried out to create conditions for the military service to carry out the contract. Today, there are 42,000 people. In particular, the remodeling of 11 barracks into comfortable dormitories has been funded. In the last two years, military support for military personnel has been increased by an average of 70 percent. These measures provide grounds for a reduction in the service of military service personnel from 18 months to 12 months in 2005. Local authorities and other military officials are planning to reorganize the structures of local military administrations by 2008, with a gradual reduction in their number and review of their functions. In order to improve the functioning of the defence and industrial complex, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has adopted a decision approving the State Programme for Reforming and Developing the Defence and Industrial Complex until 2010. The implementation of the State Programme will ensure the development of military equipment at a minimum level, modernise and continue the resource, and purchase of an appropriate number of essential weapons, and a combination of rapid response forces. At this time, the modernization of the T-64B tank and the test of the AN-70 military-transport aircraft continues, with significant expenditures allocated in the 2004 budget. Positive developments have been achieved in the reform of military education and human resources policy. A broad - scale program has been prepared that responds to the military forces reform program, which will contribute to a significant optimisation of military education. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, for the first time in its year of independence, has systematically addressed defence issues. This allowed long - term planning on the basis of the established legislative framework, taking into account the tasks faced by the state’s military organization and its economic capabilities. There are still many problems to be solved. First, the non-admission of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces 2000-2005 does not allow the full implementation of the requirements of the Act on State guarantees of social protection. Moreover, delaying the adoption of the above - mentioned law results in additional costs for maintaining an infrastructure that has no prospect of further use in the Armed Forces. The impossibility of releasing financial resources, which is almost 440 million dollars. In the 2005 budget, to develop and improve the financial support of military personnel, the need to increase the amount of the appeal in 2004. We planned this program, this year we're going to cut by 14,000. The recruitment of members of the military service. The increase will also increase the cost of reform efforts by 175 million. Simply put, the non-admission of the Law on New Numbering requires an additional allocation of 175 million, not an additional one, and in the budget we will burn 175 million. That's right. Next. An analysis of recent armed conflict highlights the urgent need to increase and develop the capabilities of the forces of national military intelligence. And to do that, you have to make a major change in the structure of the military budget. Next. The defence planning process, the organization of which is to be implemented on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning, remains unregulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u9	Yes, please turn on the microphone so that the minister can finish his speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u10	I want to finish the following, distinguished national MPs. As Secretary of Defense, I would like to assure you, the National MPs, that the Armed Forces of Ukraine, despite all the problems they have, are related to their past problems related to the need for transformation. Nevertheless, to this day, I assure you that the Armed Forces of Ukraine are a reliable guarantor of the territorial integrity and integrity of our state's borders and are ready to carry out their tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. If you have any questions, please sign in. Ten minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u12	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Eugene Kirilovich, we've been handed over the materials today, and the draft decree, and I've been trying to find and find no information about the Ukrainian generals. I have information that there are 300 generals in Ukraine today, as much as in the entire multimillion-dollar army of the former Union. Today, there is much talk of reform or reduction, do you not think that it is the reduction of the army that should begin with our generals because the people say that the fish of the head is rotting? And the second is about military doctrine. It is only today that the President's decree is issued where military doctrine is approved. The last time it was approved by the Supreme Council 11 years ago, 11 years ago Ukraine used the old military doctrine. Do you not think that the government or the same President should make a military decision on the Supreme Council to approve the military doctrine in order for the MPs to make the appropriate decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u13	First of all, what's going on with the generals. In fact, we had a complex legacy: 322 generals were in the state at the end of last year. Today, there are 221 generals on the list in Ukraine. I would like to say that the general is an incredibly important structure of a person in the Armed Forces, whose price is very high, as is the CEO, the general designer, the general in the Armed Forces -- it's really a very important person in the proper position, if it fits. But indeed, during the time that has passed, and the events that have taken place in the world have shown that the conformity of generals with other officers needs to change significantly. So far, Ukraine, we're going somewhere in the first place by the number of generals in relation to other officers. But in working on this: on optimizing the number of generals in relation to other officers -- I would like to emphasize that this should not in any way discredit the rank of general. Because the generals themselves are not to blame for the situation. The other one. In principle, the Armed Forces Reform Programme 2010 - 2015 includes 121 generals in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is the optimal value to the number that is predicted. War doctrine. A new edition of the military doctrine was being worked on by the finest minds of military science, civil science, nonmilitary specialists, and the Institute of Strategic Research. She's gone a hard, hard way. Today it is a new edition of a military doctrine that fits the realities of today’s world and, above all, defines threats to military security, threats to Ukraine that can transform into other kinds of dangers. And I am convinced that adoption, the approval of military doctrine today largely completes the legislative hierarchy of the entire defense organization of the state. According to the Constitution, military doctrine, you know, is approved by the President. Parliament approves the budget of the Armed Forces, the structure, the number. And in this way, there is an opportunity in Parliament to control the direction of activity. In addition, last year's parliament, and we are grateful for that, passed the National Security Frameworks Act, where security in the military sphere is clearly defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u14	Verni Dubov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u15	Verni Dubov, Sevastopol, faction of Ukraine. Honourable Eugene Kirilovich, President of Ukraine, was approved in April 2002 by the State Programme for the transition of the Armed Forces to the recruitment of contracted military personnel. In your report, you touched on how things are going now. The question is. During this time, this program did not raise the question that this should not be done. If it did not, then what do you think is now impeding the complete adoption of this program, and what does it depend on us to adopt a law on the number of the Armed Forces?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u16	Dear National Deputies! The contract and the language of the military is much more expensive than the contract. And so it must be, and so it is everywhere in the world. I mean, the transition to what's called the "professional armed forces," the wills of the vast majority of military personnel will be contractually more expensive even if they are equipped with the latest weapons. Today, we have 42,000 military personnel on contract. I don't want to say it much or little, but really in the process of implementing this plan there have been some problems. We're working on them. Not everything, I'll be honest, there are definite answers. What is it? It turns out that a large part of the military, whose contract is completed, does not want to continue the contract. The reasons are different, but we need to give very deep answers as to why. I can name a few of them. One of them is actually low cash retention, although it's been increased in recent years. But compared with the military, even our neighbors, it is still quite low. Second, it is related to the psychological problems of the relationship of noncontracted military personnel with contracted military personnel. There are other reasons that we're working on, but this way of moving the Armed Forces to a professional basis, it's defined, but for the sake of doing it simply, this program, we're not going to be because the formation of the Armed Forces by contract is going to improve their quality, not just changing the structure of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u17	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u18	Thank you. Eugene Kirilovich, why don't you tell us what's the reason for this year's increase against the previously allocated $51.2 million in expenditure on Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations in the change to Ukraine's State Budget for this year? What financial losses has Ukraine already suffered and will it bear by the end of this year in connection with the stay of the Ukrainian contingent in Iraq? What did Ukraine receive financially from its military contingent in Kosovo? And the last. How many NATO aircraft have already used Ukraine's airspace to fly to Afghanistan, and how much has Ukraine lost for the free escort of these aircraft? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u19	First of all, in its years of independence, Ukraine received compensation from the United Nations for more than $150 million in peacekeeping operations. That's a pretty decent sum. And for our participation in Kosovo, we also get the right compensation. A problem has arisen today in connection with the continued maintenance of our contingent. There's no problem until October, and in October we'll decide whether we stay in Kosovo or not, we'll make proposals. This is about funding, which is what you're talking about. Thank you. In connection with our stay in Iraq, this has to do with the preparation, repair, and repair of equipment for our contingent. The additional costs involved in the preparation of the technology are mainly armoured transporters, it's car repairs, it's an updated form for our military personnel, it's new communication systems. So here it is, it's kind of an extra cost, but they're still in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. These are the costs for the Armed Forces themselves, to increase their equipment. Thank you. NATO aircraft fly over a small area, over the Black Sea. Now I can't say for sure, but it's already a few thousand flights. It's a small area. And relative to the loss, since we have made this decision, the loss does not count because it is a mutually acceptable decision. I'll tell you, it's not because of continental territory, I'll stress again, it's a small, small strip above the Black Sea, far from the coast of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u20	Demjochin, Democratic Initiatives of the Peoples of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u21	Dear Eugene Kirilovich, I have three questions for you. First. What is in the plans of the Ministry of Defence and what is being done to raise the fighting spirit of the Armed Forces in order for officers to have confidence in tomorrow? That's the first question. Second. What do you think, and perhaps you already have in mind, is it necessary to make it critical to address the housing problem, both of the soldiers who serve and the military pensioners who have been dismissed without housing? And question three. Tell me, what do you expect from the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, and what do you think you need to do, what laws to adopt, what regulations should be drawn up to address the problems in the Ministry of Defence? Most important, what do you expect from the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u22	First of all, we're waiting for the adoption of the New Number Act, because this allows for a change in the 2005 budget structure, which is not rational today and to some extent even cartoon I can't say 92 percent on maintenance and only 8 percent on development, of which 4 is the repayment of debts of previous years. The release of budget funds next year as a result of the new structure and numbers will enable a budget to be built rationally, with a view to the future rather than eating. The other one. We're also waiting and asking the National Deputies to adopt a law that has already passed the Cabinet of Ministers and is in Parliament, it's about defense planning, it's an extremely important law for the entire defence system, the military system, the military organization of the state for the armed forces in particular. In our view, it was of good quality, not only military but, more precisely, not military. Moreover, we would like to see the relatively fast adoption of the Ministry Law in reserve. There's a law on alternative service, there's a change. And the Reserve Service Act allows for a significant change in the use of human resources to protect the state. These are, you could say, the key laws that are very important today. Well, clearly, you'll be supporting our budget request from the Ministry of Defense for the next year. Its base is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Order, which approves the projected expenditures for 2005 and 2010 with calculations throughout the field, mainly related to the core fund. These are four major problems. Thank you. As far as housing is concerned, it's for a military officer. A painful problem. What is being done? You know, there are two state programs that aim to implement this problem. State programs that deal with the housing of military personnel who are released. This year, the Ministry of Economics has made some adjustments to this program. And so far we can't say that we're satisfied with the implementation of this program. As far as military service is concerned. Yes, indeed, Ukraine today has an extremely serious problem. Nearly 47,000, a little less troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, now have no housing. Thanks to the efforts of the government, the President and, thanks to you people's deputies, in this year's budget, and we hope that next year's article on housing solutions, that is to say, housing financing, refers to protected people. Now, in the second half of the year, there will be the core funds allocated in this year’s budget of 304 million. In the first half of the year, not so much had happened. 90 percent will go in the second half. So now the task is going to be for us, for the Armed Forces, to build as much a literately as possible a hierarchy of using these funds. What we've done, we think we've exhausted ourselves. We've got both the Budget Committee and the Supreme Council profile committee here. And we hope that by working together, the funds that are most used in all years of independence will be used in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Eugene Kirilovich, thank you. Please take the procedure, Igor Raphaelovich. Microphone. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. When we ask a question to the reporter, there's a counter, one minute. I would very much ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in answer to a question, they also had such a counter. One minute answers the question. Because I've been looking at some questions for four or five minutes. And MPs don't have the ability to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u25	Thank you. I think that's a good offer. Let's count it. The chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council’s consideration of the government’s defence activity symbolically on the day of the tribulation year reflects the deep concern of the national deputies in this vital direction of state construction. For the sake of concern, the members of our committee believe that more than enough is needed. Let me remind you that our country has the largest army in Europe, except Russia and Turkey. According to the U.S. Department of State in Ukraine, there were 295,000 in early 2003. Military personnel, as in Germany 270,000, Britain 205,000, France 184 thousand, Italy 155.5,000. In doing so, virtually all European armies are now reducing their numbers. They are intensively equipped with modern warfare techniques, high-precision and, so-called, intellectual weapons. What do we have? We had tanks at the beginning of last year that were 1.6 times higher than in Germany, fighting armored cars -- 1.4 times higher than in France, 1.6 times higher than in Italy. Germany, twice as much as France. Airplanes are 1.4 times larger than in France, 1.6 times larger than in Greece, Italy, 2.1 times larger than in Germany. But the vast majority of our aviation technology, missile and air defence complexes, other weapons have exhausted their resources or will be exhausted within the next two or three years. In all their years of existence, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have received no new modern - day pattern or weaponry. They are equipped with combat equipment, weapons of the third and fourth generations, while NATO armies of the fifth and sixth generations. And it's in a country that's got rid of the most effective means of deterring possible aggression, the third most powerful arsenal of nuclear weapons, without having real security assurances. The extremely discontented state of the defence orders is strongly illustrated in the relevant materials available to the national deputies. The devastating impact has been inflicted on many segments of the domestic defence and industrial complex. The number of employees in enterprises in construction, space engineering, radio engineering, electronics has been reduced by 70-85 percent, the basic mass of highly skilled workers, specialists, the implementation of plans for privatization of defence enterprises is threatened by the total destruction of the defence and industrial complex. It does not meet the current conditions of our Armed Forces infrastructure. Of the total number of military units, only a fifth of them are combat forces, while providing and serving 80 percent, while in other states the weight of the fighting forces is at least twice as high. The ratio of the total number of tanks and armed combat vehicles and military helicopters in our land forces, troops, is 50 to one, and in the armies of the leading countries 13 to one. In social terms, the wages of work, food, housing, social security systems -- Ukrainian military protection is the worst among all European states. According to official data, the cost of one military officer in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is 10-15 times lower than in the new NATO member countries and 25 times less than the standard. This is what we have just received from the city of Selidovo, the Donetsk district. A soldier's father, who serves in one of the armed forces in Crimea, said after visiting his son, "Soldiers are thin and almost hungry. The first question is, "Is there nothing to eat?" The look is depressing, the young soldiers are desperate, and there is no smile on their faces. Such letters are not unique. In the Ukrainian army, soldiers and officers in the division have no other but a field camouflage form, not provided for by the family of 70,000 officers and flags, military pensioners. The requirements of the Ukrainian Defence Act for financing defence needs for at least three percent of gross domestic product are not met, and in the next 10-15 years the government is not going to implement them. Budget allocations don't exceed 60 percent of the minimum needs of the Armed Forces, they never deviated from the food budget, they just have to dream about the development budget. There is every reason to conclude that we have reached a critical limit, that we are facing a choice: either decisively and radically change the situation, or, on the basis of popular motives, pre-election thinking, we will leave everything as it has been, and we will condemn our Armed Forces to irreversible degradation. What is at stake is a reminder of the tragic events of recent years. Surprisingly, there is a lack of consistency in the implementation of approved military reform programs, as well as the fact that this work is not carried out in the legal field. Let me remind you that the intentions and plans to reduce the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces within two years were known for 155 thousand years from the press reports, although there were no decisions of the National Security and Defence Council, nor of the President's decrees. In September and November 2000, decisions were taken and approved by presidential decrees. They were carried out by the Ministry of Defence with organizational training, military units and unifications to be disbanded, and tens of thousands of military personnel who were to be released were warned, the commissions passed. Some of them, especially those who have found suitable employment, have been fired for more than six months waiting for a solution to their fate. Finally, in February of this year, the Bank's government submitted to the Supreme Council a bill proposing to reduce the number of armies by the end of 2005, as envisaged by the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, approved by the President, to transfer the Armed Forces to a tri-species structure and to approve our committee's proposed social security system. It is difficult to understand why the draft of such a law has brought such an extremely important issue to the Supreme Council, not the President of Ukraine. Only in April of this year, under our insistence, the President submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law that he proposed to establish the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces only by the end of 2004 for 70,000 persons less than it had been for the beginning. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is known, has not accepted this project. This essentially blocked further reform of the Armed Forces, including the implementation of the laws already adopted: the three-species structure, the social guarantees. The president said today that when it comes to solving the issue of the numbers of the Armed Forces, he's not going to sign those laws. All of this plus the unique facts of the late-burrorate approach to the liberation of military personnel from the service led to a dangerous increase in the moral and political environment in the military environment. The situation requires immediate, radical steps. The main thing, in our view, is that at all levels, we change the way we view defense issues, especially the needs of the Armed Forces of the military organization of the state. I'm not talking about the Prime Minister's refusal to speak to the Prime Minister, the Head of the State Commission on Reform and Development of the Armed Forces, much to say. What our committee needs to do. For one thing, it is urgent to adopt the law on the number of the Armed Forces, which is a draft proposed by the President in the Committee. The State Commission for Reform and Development of the Armed Forces will immediately determine the prospects for the development of the Armed Forces and the entire military organization of the State. For next year's consideration of the Ukrainian National Budget project, the President is to make proposals on the number of Armed Forces in the coming years, as required by the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. The government provides full funding for the military reform programmes, as defined by the law, for the social security of military personnel, for fire-fighting and ammunition disposal, for the fate of hundreds of military towns, and for the military property that is being liberated. The Cabinet of Ministers is deeply concerned with the problems of the defence and industrial complex, preventing its eventual destruction, determining the order and specific terms of the elimination of social injustice, the crippling imbalances in the size of the pension provision of military personnel, depending on the time of their retirement. I can't help but say that. The salary of the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine is one and a half times lower than that of the Civil Deputy Minister of Defence and 150 less than that of the Director of the Ministry of Defence. And finally. Who in the State investigates such matters that have a direct bearing on the prestige of military service? And finally. In Ukraine recently, NATO’s high-ranking actions have been frequented so that the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq will not be removed. They are all boasting, expressing their admiration for the reform of our Armed Forces. Say they're not aware of the real state of things. Many meetings and conversations with the crowds testify to something else. Is this really the situation that suits them? The question is, what quality do they want to see Ukraine that wants to become a member of the alliance? Only as a vast, subdued territory in the eastern borders of NATO, where they can at any time bring in the known memorandums of armadas of their armies. This is worth considering when it comes to defending Ukraine, its national sovereignty, and its real independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u27	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. The head of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, has the floor. Dear colleagues! I told you the rules I proposed to the committee. There was no question for a coconspirator, and you agreed. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dearly-respected are those who are present. First of all, allow me to thank you for the opportunity from this rostrum to make a number of comments and suggestions on the functioning, reform and development of one of the most important State institutions of the Ministry of Defence, even on the day of the outbreak of the Great Homeland War, which we must always remember. The results of the audits and analysis of the budget funding system for the defence needs of Ukraine over the five years provided by the Court of Auditors indicate deep discrepancies in the objectives and objectives for which the budget is allocated and the actual situation in this area. The Government, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence did not ensure an adequate level of coordination of military budget programmes and none of them had been implemented in 10 years. Systematic failure is that the Government does not define defence programmes as priorities. Control over their implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers is always lost, and programmes from the State-wide have become simple departmental, exceptional problems of the Ministry of Defence. Even the undeclared are aware that public research and development work is particularly a priority in the KPC. But the Government of Ukraine did not monitor or use plans for these programmes. As a result, only 63 million bracelets have been used by the Ministry of Defence for the past 10 years, and only 14 projects have been implemented and adopted, with an amount of 2.5 million bracelets, or 0.7 per cent of the funds used. The amount of 349 million bracelets has been ineffectively used and, in fact, lost to address the most acute problems of the defence complex. At the same time, in support of the lack of funds in the State budget, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine failed to comply with the President's Decree on the Status of Implementation of the State Programme on the Liveliness and Explosive Safety of the arsenal and bases, the Armament of Missiles and Ammunition. For these programmes, between 20 per cent and 15 per cent were allocated to these programmes. And only 15-20 per cent of guaranteed funding for living activities. As a result, no execution was carried out. the development of new technologies and the creation of ongoing domestic capacity to dispose of ammunition. The recent developments in Artemovsk and Novo Bogdanovka in the Zaporozhye region have brought to mind the critical situation. The measures seem to have been taken, but the solution to the State-wide problem has been delayed for a minimum of 4-5 years. The results of the audit of the Court of Auditors show that the Government, through the adoption of programmes that are important to the State, is merely reporting on its intention to address them, without providing funding in the State budget for them in defined amounts and in the reporting and monitoring system. Four years ago, the State Programme for the Reform and Development of the Armed Forces of Ukraine was adopted, but neither the Government nor the Ministry of Finance gave priority to financing the programme. Moreover, in 2001 it was simply forgotten, and funding was channelled through the reduction of other costs of the Ministry of Defence. With such funding.Any monitoring of the implementation of the programme, inadequate management of funds by the Ministry of Defence has resulted in no targeted use and ineffective use of 135 million bracelets, 34 per cent of the funds allocated. I, my distinguished colleagues, have focused only on some of the problems that today characterize the health of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Of course, a surgical intervention programme is needed in the management of these programmes. It was necessary to review the State Reform Programme of the Armed Forces and to grant that programme national status. Indeed, the lack of solutions to the fundamental problems of the concept of the future development of the Armed Forces is one of the causes of many difficulties.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Konstantinovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion of information. We agreed to talk for 20 minutes. Please write this down. Recorded. What are the names of the deputies who signed up for the talk? Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is preparing Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u30	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, this is a venerable Presidium. Today, we are discussing an extremely complex question. And as far as we're concerned, the socialists, we're already too late. The army is overloaded, overburdened with technology, overloaded by generals, overburdened with land, overburdened with weapons. And whatever it takes, the army's overloaded. Please tell me if normal military equipment can function when it has more than 500,000 acres [500,000 ha] of land, or one and a half acres [1.5 ha] for each military unit. When are we going to do other things? Please tell me if the army can carry out its functions properly when such arsenals lie in arms. And the weapon that's been used for a long time. Why is there such a question in our country that it has been thrown down on just one, say, military and timely, today at the Ministry of Defence? Disposal of explosive charges of all kinds. Is that what the army's all about? Isn't this the Ministry of Industrial Policy? In which country there is still a need to develop the appropriate technical characteristics of how to destroy an armament in order to do so in the army, not the ministry that was called upon to do so. I would like to say that, in my opinion, the Cabinet of Ministers has removed these problems. And they do not solve the questions that have arisen today but simply try to manage. Military towns are being handed over insolvent, and they are now being transferred without adequate funding. So it doesn't work out in the complex. Only the Cabinet of Ministers can tie this up in a complex of questions. Why have not all governments seen the problem of stockpile conservation for 12 years? The tops of warehouses, boxes made of wood, where ammunition is stored, do not rot alone for two years. Why did it get so bad, so bad, and we only saw it today? Therefore, the responsibility must be shared with all the cabinets of ministers who had worked before, with all the defence ministers and with one Chief of Staff, Leonid Kuchma. Right Mr. Kuchma, who claims that there is nothing to blame for all the gunmen that the military was originally called a soldier who seemed to light a cigarette in Novogoddanovka. We need to find fault in all of this in higher offices. So in our view, the question needs to be solved in a complex way. And unfortunately, today there are very few representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so it is hard to believe that after today’s hearings in the Cabinet of Ministers, there will be some serious problem, and that our society will be assured that there will not be any warehouses again tomorrow, or a rocket, such as in Barovara, will it not be knocked off the plane? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u31	Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u32	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of October 19, 93, approved a military doctrine that emerges from the non-block status of Ukraine and does not foresee its integration into any military and political blocs. The order has not been revoked until now. President Kuchma, however, confirmed in his decree on 23 May 2002 the strategy of Ukraine's relationship with NATO, which marks Ukraine's full membership in this military-political alliance. And by decree of June 15, this year, he approved Ukraine's new military doctrine, which is based on a policy of European integration for the ultimate purpose of joining NATO. Both Presidential decrees do not comply with a decree passed by the Supreme Council on October 19, 93. The President did not ask the Supreme Council to cancel it, although you would have to do so before the decrees were issued. Secondly, why was there no nuclear ammunition left in Ukraine on June 1st 96? In just five years, starting in 91st, three ministries of defense have changed. With the beginning of the so - called formation of the Armed Forces, more than 80 percent of the management force has been upgraded, military, army, corps, and division commanders have changed. In three years, some 12,000 were transferred to the SND countries. Officers. So what's he talking about? The State Budget is seeing a steady reduction in national defence and military expenditures and the maintenance of the Armed Forces, the purchase of arms and military technology and, in particular, the conduct of research and research and development in particular. These and a number of other causes are the result of those tragedies in the army. which we observe daily and which have become a system. It's not just explosions at ammunition depots, it's the shooting of rockets into residential buildings, it's scary that our children die in the army in peacetime. Where that soldier or officer came from 15 years ago. He was well aware of military technology, the technical and political level of knowledge was high, and today our army has only 14 professional military holidays and nothing more. It was painful to listen to last week that our glorious aviation was on the verge of a complete disaster. Tell me, how can a pilot fly a plane when he does not see a plane while he is learning? And it's not a secret that today the hull of a plane in the sky is anything but the first tractor in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u33	Vladimir Yavorovsky faction "Our Ukraine." Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u34	Honourable Parliamentarians, distinguished voters! Vladimir Yavorowski. I have probably the most militarized district among all of you -- this is also a maple range, this is also the border forces along the western border, this is Rava Ruska, this is Zovva. Because of this question, I am convinced that only a completely ignorant fool may not understand the painful problems of the Ukrainian army that we have today. It took a huge army of over 100,000 who were in our territory to create, indeed, the Ukrainian army. If you put your hand on your heart today, you can say that no one has ever taken seriously the problem of all the ministers we've had, except maybe Constantine Morozov and Vitaly Radecki. All the rest of the ministers thought it was necessary who would click louder in front of the President and tell him that the army was perfectly normal and everything was fine. Today, we stand and understand, and we realize, in fact, that almost a disaster has occurred with the Ukrainian army. Its property, the vast property that was in the army, was actually stolen today. Let me give you an example in my military district: when a privatisation contest was announced, a competition was announced, in a non-high year, think about it, on February 29th, there was a competition. So we understand very well that there were never any open competitions, all of which happened to the right, to the left. In fact, we have not invested in rearming our troops today. And most importantly, as Napoleon said, in military authority, no one would say, "Half the military's strength is patriotism." And today we have to say that this problem has never been addressed by anyone in our army. We have a truly tragic situation today. We have 355,000 armies. She's 13 in Europe -- can you imagine?Oh, my God! - but a hundred and twenty-six. We have first place in the number of generals. Soon we'll have each Corporal per general. Eugene Kirilovich, right now, seems to have taken up this job, but I can imagine how ungrateful she is and how deceitful she is. It's a matter of conceivable that the government today owes an army -- where is this seen? - 614 million dollars worth of ammunition to our army. This might say: I really like the phrase of Montesquie, who said about Louis the Fourteenth: "He loved it very much, he loved prizes and trophies, but was very afraid to put a wise general in charge of his army, as if he had put him in charge of the enemy army." [[It's about the Commander-in-Chief.]] I am convinced, Eugene Kirilovich, that we must support the army's demands for the following year. But what I want is for you not to call the cables in front of the President, who's in the final term, but to ask real questions about our Ukrainian army. Only then will we have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u35	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity Block of Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, the Party of Fatherland’s Defenders over the past few years have repeatedly been appalled about the situation that has arisen in the Armed Forces. I want to ask all the defense ministers who are in and out of this room: Was that the case? It was like that. You said, "No, they're slandering us." And now? I'm opening up information on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it says here that the situation is critical, "the technical state of arms and military technology can be described as critical," page three of the Secretary of Defense's report. But critically, in my opinion, what we've put here today is a defence minister who has to work with the government. The question today is being heard by the government, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the question of the government and the prime minister, who is not in the state. He didn't make it to the Prime Minister's pants, and you're already putting him in the presidents. But you're going to have him show up here to at least report his question! The Party of Fatherland’s Defenders developed a concept, a military doctrine of Ukraine, and would suggest that it be approved as a law. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that today the Secretary of Defense has already reported what has happened. I want to look at the state of the military industrial complex and, in particular, at the shipbuilding sector. Dear National Deputies! There's absolutely no funding for the creation of a universal missile complex, a completely halted development of samples of a new generation of ship-loaded equipment that we were once first. During the period of the rule of the State of Leonidas Kuchma, from 1994 to 2004, no new battleship was installed at the feet of Ukrainian shipbuilding enterprises. Or four ships that were built, all built during the Soviet Union. And there's a lot of threats. We see the definition of a military threat by any neighbouring state, if there are such components: the aggressiveness of foreign policy with regard to Ukraine, the mobilization of the deployment of offensive groups of troops, the concentration of troops and so on. We're all teaching them. I want to say by the decree that is proposed. Here it is suggested that the government’s activity is not sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop doing double standards. "It does not match the level of the Constitution of Ukraine" - so it has to be clearly written. And a dot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u37	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Andresyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u38	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, today the government of capitalist ministers is proposing that the bourgeois Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the implementation of the constitutional powers it has exercised in the field of defence. First of all, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 19 October 1993 approved a military doctrine that emerges from the non-block status of Ukraine and does not foresee its integration into any military and political bloc. The order has not been revoked until now. However, President Kuchma on 23 May 2002 approved by decree the strategy of Ukraine's relations with NATO, which aims to ensure Ukraine's full membership in this military-political alliance and approved, by decree of 15 June, Ukraine's new military doctrine, which is based on a policy of European integration for the ultimate purpose of joining NATO. Both decrees of the President do not comply with the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 19, 1993. The president did not ask the Supreme Council to cancel it, although he had to do so before the decrees were issued. Do we have a Constitutional Court, and does the President of Ukraine respect the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I guess not. It's different. The President's confirmed military doctrine, because of a list of real and potential external threats to Ukraine's national security in the military sphere, is essentially defined by only one state that can be a source of potential threat to Ukraine and therefore its opponent, Russia, although it is not directly stressed, is not named. Because it's only Russia that has not completed the treaty-making process for the state border of Ukraine. Such an open recognition of Russia as the only one among the states of Ukraine's real and potential opponents may have a negative impact on Ukraine's future relations with that country, although it has been called our strategic partner. Indeed, the Ukrainian leadership is seriously going to fight Russia in the event that the conflict may worsen because of the incomplete formation of the State border between our countries, as was the case with Tuzla. And finally. At 11 o'clock in the Mayan of Independence, women workers gathered for the All-U.S. protest against the participation of the so-called Ukrainian Peacekeeper and, in fact, the de facto occupying contingent in Iraq. I support their protest. I ask the government to pay attention to their demands.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u39	Boris Andresyuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u40	Dear members of the government, dear colleagues! Today, we are discussing a really important, not average topic. Convincedly, we must leave aside all political contradictions, act as the only front for effective co-operation between the legislative and executive branches of power on this issue. A week ago, the President of Ukraine approved the military doctrine of Ukraine, which is of a defensive nature, aimed exclusively at protecting the integrity and territorial integrity of our nation. Today, Ukraine does not join any military blocs or alliances, but it actively cooperates with them. Ukraine must have a decent place in Europe’s collective security system. We have a corresponding problem with the formation of the modern - day Armed Forces. The SDPU(o) has consistently advocated the formation of modern and effective Armed Forces that will be ready at any time to carry out tasks to protect the independence and sovereignty of our state. However, I must point out that military reform has not been properly implemented in years of independence. An army group inherited from the Soviet army was able to acquire the basic characteristics of the national army. But today it is too early to talk about the presence of modern - day Armed Forces in Ukraine. A large part of the blame for this, we will be objective, also lies on the MP’s body. For example, the refusal of the Supreme Council to support the President's latest initiative to reduce the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has significantly hampered the process of reforming the Ukrainian army. Demagogy hides the shortsightedness of individual politicians, their unwillingness to make unpopular but essential decisions. We can't ignore the fact that the technology and weapons of our army are out of date. While the state cannot accumulate the necessary amount of funds for its technical rearms. This causes significant damage to Ukraine’s security. The paradoxical situation is that Ukraine is one of the world’s top ten arms exporters, and units of new weapons are coming to the units of the Ukrainian army. I hope that recent economic growth will allow the government to change the situation for the better, to ensure full funding of the state's military needs. May’s events in Novogoddanówk have repeatedly confirmed that Ukraine needs a clearly defined strategy for the development of the army. I am convinced that a dialogue between the military and society should be at the forefront of this process. It is time to ensure, as foreseen by the Ukrainian Civil Control Act, the maximum possible information available to society on the state of affairs in the military, in the military industry, in the arms trade. Today, Ukraine has the first coalition government in history. The faction, therefore, is convinced only by joint efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u41	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u42	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In recent times, criticism has become commonplace at the address of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Sad examples, and the truth is enough: sknealing tragedy, shooting one rocket into a house in Brovary, the other on a civilian plane, explosions in warehouses. The objectively military bodies that have remained in Ukraine since 1991 as a legacy of the Soviet Union since the acquisition of Ukrainian independence have proved to be, firstly, burdensome to the economy of the state and, secondly, to the task of tackling the two superpowers. According to the press, the number of groups is known. One million men once made up. Since the issue of ammunition in everyone’s mouth has recently been the name of the number: 2 million 400,000 tons of shells, bombs, and missiles have been our legacy. Of these, 47 percent were kept in the sky, with more than 300,000 tons unusable at the time, according to the Ministry of Defence. Since then, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have been in the process of reforming to balance the structure and number of new missions and tasks resulting from Ukraine's security and defence policies, as well as in accordance with existing state resources. Let's face it, the situation in the Ukrainian army is too difficult. It is estimated that Ukraine's independent experts are 13th in the world and 126th in the defence budget. As a result of this 12 years of independence, the Ukrainian Armed Forces purchased for themselves tanks -- no tanks, no planes, no helicopters -- no cars, 20 cars, 17 guns. Every year, it's allocated to the purchase of fuel-oil materials for only 10 percent of the need, goods -- 23 percent, food supply -- 60-70 percent. Let me re-emphasize the topic of storage and disposal of ammunition. Even in government-planned measures, 336 million have been allocated just 13 percent. At this time, Ukraine is faced with the need for three complex processes at the same time. Reducing the number of special forces and removing large numbers of weapons and military equipment from the military force, moving to contractual staffing, and bringing the armed forces to general standards. The Ministry of Defence is doing everything possible to achieve a positive outcome. The main question is: With the right tools, we need to find the right funds and the most realistic way to reduce unnecessary modern troops in a structure that needs adequate maintenance and thus consumes the necessary funds. But this process requires our legislative support and, above all, the adoption of the Law on the Number of Armed Forces, which is hampered by the reform of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. You've got a draft ruling on this. Demyochin, please, with a motive. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. We're going to vote now. Demjochina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In order for today's discussion to become an effective support for the Ministry of Defence to address pressing problems, I propose that the following paragraphs be included in the draft regulation: the Cabinet of Ministers, in the shortest possible time, develop a national security strategy, a document that is a short-term document, and include in the Prorama project, which is currently being developed, the social and economic development of Ukraine, all the comments and suggestions that have been made, particularly regarding the resolution of the housing problem in the shortest possible time and the problems of conversion. These two tasks are linked. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to supporting these proposals in the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u45	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. With motive? Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u46	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine There's been a lot of talk here about how we treat generals like a lot of them, but I want to draw your attention to the fact that today the head of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine gets 40 percent less than the first deputy minister of defense and even less than the head of the department, the director of the Department of Defense. Do you think it's normal? I have a question: do we have the Armed Forces for the Ministry of Defense, or should the Ministry of Defense finally be looking after the Armed Forces, their condition and their full security?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, let's proceed with the procedure on the grounds of the vote. And that's the question. We need to listen carefully. Please, Rudzkowski. With a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! Today, we heard reports by the minister and the committee heads, and we realized that there are no doctrines in Ukraine. When we even compare France or England or Germany, we have to forget that we're going to fight them or something, we don't even interfere with them. We need to think about the nations that are next to us — Romania, Turkey, and others — to compare them. If the strategy and the Ministry of Defence and the committee so define it as they will, and they are oriented towards France, there will be no correct guidance and no reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We need the Supreme Council to uphold the defense doctrine of the state, and then there will be one. And I believe that this issue can be included in the resolution after the Cabinet report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, we are voting on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of constitutional powers in the field of defence, registration number 5668, on a basis. [[11:24:32]] For 290 Copy that. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to take into account the comments and suggestions made by the national MPs, to accept it as a whole, by entrusting the committee with technical work. Take down the vote. Please, Carmazin, then Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I made a proposal: where in the operative part, I wrote, "to see the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in carrying out the constitutional powers they have exercised in the field of defence, which is not in accordance with the Constitution." I ask you to put this proposal to the vote now. Because it is clear to all that the army is broken, there is nothing: no tank has been filled, no plane, no ship, nothing! And we say.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u51	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u52	And we say: not enough. What's that estimate, "not enough"? Let's forget those words: "not enough"! It doesn't fit the Constitution or it answers - that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's proposal. Please listen carefully. "Acknowledgment of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in carrying out the constitutional powers it has exercised in the field of defence, which is not in conformity with the Constitution," does not meet the requirements of the Constitution. [[11:26:07]] For 148 It's not working. Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u54	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". I'm sorry you didn't listen to my colleague Karmazin's proposals, because it's strange when the President of Ukraine decides on funding for 2004 for the Ukrainian Armed Forces 6.4 billion dollars, and the government puts the figure at 4.9 billion dollars. So you can see right now that the government's activity in this respect is unsatisfactory. On the other hand, we need the maximum detail of the defense budget. I already suggested this last year. This is supported by the heads of the armed forces. For it to be written that the defense budget consists of budgets of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where the costs are as detailed as possible. And then you'll see what these costs are going for, not the way it's going to be now: everything in the crowd, then divide accordingly, where it's going, it's not known where it's going. As the head of the Court of Auditors put it, there is a lack of purposeful use of funds and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u55	The vote is based on a proposal just made by the People’s Deputy of Manchulenko. [[11:27:43]] For 168 The offer is not supported. I am voting for the approval of the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of constitutional powers in the field of defence (taking into account the proposals made by Demökhin and Rudzkowski). [[11:28:13]] For 297 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The committee insisted and yesterday discussed this on the Conciliation Council, to go back to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act 2000-2005. 'Cause I'm asking for your attention! - at the Conciliation Council, we didn't make a decision, so we agreed that this question would be put to your mind. I then put to the vote a motion for a committee to return to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act 2000-2005. Please vote. [[11:29:08]] For 238. Decision taken. Calm down! Dear colleagues, we have considered this bill, discussed it in detail, so obviously there is no need for further discussion. Please, School, please. And then we'll vote. One school and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, we discussed this law, of course, the Supreme Council did not support it, so in principle we need to listen to the arguments why we are going back. Let the minister come out and say we can't discuss it, but we need to know why the issue of arms reduction is so persistent. I don't know how Ukraine can sustain 600,000 militia personnel in its budget and can't keep 300,000 military personnel. What does it cost us more? Are we building a normal state or a police state? So at least we need to listen to arguments. Maybe something's changed, maybe some new circumstances have come up, maybe we've already found out here that the army is unnecessary, that the police will defend Ukraine's borders, along with the Security Service. We need to listen at least to each other. The position of the committee is to be represented and the position of the Ministry of Defence is to be presented because the lack of discussion of the law does not exempt us from listening, at least, to the opposition. What we know how to vote is another matter. But I want to hear the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! In fact, the entire report of the Secretary of Defense was devoted to this subject, and the committee head’s report was devoted to this topic. Don't take too long. You're just gonna figure it out. I am voting for the approval of the draft Ukrainian Act, as a law, of amending the Ukrainian Act on the Number of Armed Forces 2000-2005, which is a presidential option. [[Registration number 5500]] Presidential 5,500. I told you. He's with you, dear fellows, we've seen him several times. [[11:31:17]] For 238. The law is passed. Thank you. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 1, Ukraine - 61, Communist - 1, Ukraine’s Social Democratic Party - 39, Ukraine’s Labour - 29, SPU - 15, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 2, Center - 2, Union - 14, Democratic Initiatives, People’s Government - 29, NDP and SPTU - 16, People’s Agrarian Party - 20, Postfaction - 9. [[united]] The issue under review is the report of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme 2000-2002 in 2003. It is suggested that this is the time limit for consideration of the matter, and I ask you to listen. Proposal by the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization: report by the Head of the State Property Fund - 10 minutes, answers to questions - 5 minutes, co-report by the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization - 10 minutes, to answer the question to the co-rapporteur - 10 minutes and to discuss - 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Taking into account that the State Privatization Programme 2000-2002 does not establish any tasks for the 2003 reporting period, the Fund focused its efforts on the implementation of the Ukrainian National Budget 2003 Act, the Programmes of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "Openness, Activity, Efficiency" of other programming documents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the implementation of the State Economic and Social Development Policy of Ukraine. In accordance with the Ukrainian State Budget 2003 Act, it was envisaged to receive $2 billion worth of money from privatization last year, including 2 billion dollars from the State Budget General Fund. According to privatization, in 2003, the fund received $2 billion worth of grevens of 170 million. The General Fund of the State Budget lists 2 billion and 20 million rubies, representing almost 101 percent of the annual planned task. Thus, for the first time in 12 years of privatization, rediscovered tasks from the coming of funds to the State Budget from the privatization of state property. This resulted not only from the State Property and Regional Offices Foundation but also from the constructive cooperation of the Fund with the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine. During 2003, nearly 1.6 thousand in state ownership was changed in Ukraine. Facilities of communal property form - 4.8 thousand objects. In order to ensure that such results were achieved, the Fund took organizational measures, in line with the Ukrainian Cabinet’s programme of activities, which, inter alia, were aimed at ensuring a comprehensive environment. preparation of state-owned enterprises to increase their investment attractiveness. According to monthly production schedules for group B and H, 35 items have been completed for sale in 2003. In 2003, 499 VAT shares were offered for sale, with a government share of less than 50 percent of the statutory fund. Now in groups. Privatization of A - group objects During 2003, 998 items of state-owned property were privatized by the State Privatization Authorities, 127 million dollars and 4,691 municipal property, and 545 million dollars were spent. The executive authorities are authorized to manage government property. In 2004, 128 OA - group objects, estimated at 154 million dollars, were proposed for the transfer of state - owned property. Privatization of unfinished construction facilities, group "D", task for 2003 on the privatization of unfinished construction facilities has been set in number. During 2003, 397 construction projects, 400 buildings, and 75 utilities were privatized. A year’s privatization of state-owned buildings in Ukraine was 99.3 percent. The cost of privatizing these objects during the year 200 was 23 million dollars. Since the privatization of unfinished construction facilities, 15.7 million dollars have been spent on municipal property. Privatization of J-group objects. During 2003, the fund privatized 150 "Z"-group objects, 112 of which were state property and 38 municipal property. This task of selling G-group objects for 2003 has not been established by legislation. In 2003, 9 million dollars were received from the privatization of the G-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g-g. Privatization of the "E" group. Planned expected value of the expected cost in. In the year since the sale of government shares, stakes, joint ventures were set at 560 million dollars, of which 90 percent had been planned since the privatisation of the state-owned UKNAFTA stock. In fact, in 2003, 44 million dollars came from the privatization of the “E” group. The sale of the state-owned package of UKNafty shares was not made due to the lack of stock assessment results and taking into account the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill on the specialities of privatization of the stock package belonging to the State in the Statute Fund of a Closed Shareholder Society, the transnational financial and industrial oil company UKRT. Sales of VAT shares at competitions. During January-December 2003, the fund announced 169 sets of VAT stock sales at a total price of 1.2 billion dollars at a total initial cost of 833 million dollars. As a result of the competitions, 28 contracts have been made for the sale of VAT shares, which are strategically important for the security of the state and monopolistic enterprises at a total price of 1.1 billion dollars. This represents 96 percent of the total amount of the cost coming from all competitive sales of stock packages during the reporting period. Including the sale of SP "UMC" shares, 730 million dollars came in, accounting for 33.5 percent of all the funds that came from the privatization of state property during 2003. It should be noted that the 2003 plan could have been implemented even without the sale of SP "UMC" stock packets due to the acceleration of the VAT privatisation of the "Dniprovi metallurgical combination of the name of Drzejinski" and the recalculation of them to the State Budget as early as 2003. Contracts for sale include investment in privatised items at $187.6 million and $5.1 million, including enterprises that are strategically important to the security of the state. Investments totaling 178 million dollars. Sell stock bags on stock markets and.. In stock markets and.. During 2003, 369 shares 330 VAT were planned for sale with a total nominal value of 907 million dollars. According to the sales, 125 shares were sold, and in 2003 the State Budget came from the sale of VAT shares in stock exchanges and stock exchanges. 200 million dollars. In the process of privatization in accordance with the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, attention was given to the legislative and organizational provision of a strict system of anti-corruption, shadow privatization, the creation of conditions to prevent the diversion of state property outside the framework of privatization legislation. In 2003, the fund reviewed the approach to the selection of participants in competitions for the sale of control of company shares, which are strategically important for the economy and security of the state. Yes, in the process of selling the shares of the Land Fund's Metallurgical Combine of Stocks, it was clear that it was intended to withdraw from the winners the competition for the sale of investmentable objects among investors who paid taxes and carried out transparent economic and financial activities that were in the interests of the economic security of the State, which were to ensure that the State budget was secure from privatising and creating conditions for efficient business activity in the post-privatisation period. With a view to preventing the tinification of the national economy, part of the property pricing is introduced by the transfer of Ukraine to an asset valuation in accordance with national asset valuation standards based on international standards. A major problem. To which the State Property Fund pays particular attention, the alienation of state property under non-protection procedures remains. Yes, in the recent period, there has been an increase in the illegal alienation of property, primarily through the artificial creation of bankruptcy situations for strategically important enterprises. State property is also estranged according to legislation, enforcement, enforcement, and so forth. The extent of such non-protective alienation to date is no less than that of privatization of state property. In order to ensure the unification of the State-owned alienation mechanisms irrespective of the legal basis for this alienation and the determination of the State-executive authority responsible for the implementation of the single approaches in this area, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved on 11 February 2004 the Ordinance on Certain Issues of Accounting, Storage, Evaluation, Realisation of Property, which is implemented by a decision of the State Executive Authority, which provides for the creation of a single information system of accounting, storage, property valuation, which is implemented by the decision of the State-executive authorities. This allows, without violating the mechanisms currently in place for the calculation, storage, assessment and implementation of assets that are transferred to government property, at the same time ensuring the unity of the approaches of the various ministries and authorities through the sharing of information in a single database as a result of the administration of such assets by the public executive authorities. And as I finish this speech, once again, honourable national MPs, I would like to point out that not only did we re-enact the government budget plan for the first time in 12 years, but we laid a good foundation for the implementation of the plan this year. We're in the first quarter this year. In fact, we have implemented the budget plan in the middle of the year, and in the middle of the year, we have implemented, revised the plan of findings year after year with a plan of 2.1 billion dollars to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, please sign in to the head of the State Property Fund for five minutes. Yes, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u60	Mikhail Vasilovich, I'd like to ask, as I'm analyzing the activities of the State Property Fund, it seems that the fund works in these cycles. So when you go to the presidential election campaign -- one cycle of work, as close as you go to the presidential election campaign -- the degree of activation, the sales in arithmetic progress is increasing. [[Well, I mean, not the fund, but how businesses are sold.]] And in these cycles, different formats for privatization: when the situation is more politically calm, the conditions for all investors, as the situation is changing, are one condition for some investors, one for others, as in the case of Crimsonstall. Either confirm or correct this situation. Isn't there, after all, the dominance of politics and the pre-election sentiments in the institution you run?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u61	Thank you so much for the interesting question. I immediately answer that there is no political pressure on the State Property Fund policy. And for the first time in that year, I reiterate, for the first time, we have implemented a plan for coming to the State Budget. But in that year, we laid good groundwork for the implementation of the plan this year, that is to say, we have prepared several companies, attractive enterprises for privatization, and this has enabled us, in my opinion, to properly privatize several enterprises, which have enabled us to invest serious funds in the State Budget, which you and the government have already shared in the State Budget, and they have gone on to tackle important social issues: increase pensions, wages, double scholarships, one billion to finance the APC and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u62	Please, Landik. Get ready for Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u63	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I will really support what the report says. And there's no question: really, we're getting better at work, and that's really great. But I would like to ask you this question. I'm just curious: based on scientific research institutions. How's your vision anyway? Well, I don't even want to say anywhere else. If, for example, in Kiev: all the research institutes are leased, the principals get money in their pockets. We don't do anything: we don't privatize them and we don't let them privatize. So say, please, your view of this question: how do you get out of this circle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u64	Thank you. That's a very painful question. And I am very grateful to the Committee of the Supreme Council, which is headed by Nikolaynko, and to the Commission of Control, when a joint meeting of the two committees was held, together with the government, where the problem of privatizing these objects that you were talking about was being considered. And then, in my opinion, a very important decision was made from the point of view of the state, when it was said that a moratorium had been imposed until these objects were privatized, and it was given to the government, the branch ministries, to address this issue from a financial point of view. And where, in fact, these ministries will see that these scientific research institutes work, they say, on the edge of scientific and technological progress, where they can be loaded with government procurement, where the state can support them, in my opinion, the government has to make decisions here, in order to leave them in state ownership. And where these businesses are said to be producing morally outdated products, and where there are no orders, and where you say they only work because they seem to be leased, in my opinion, there should be a decision on privatization, involving an investor. But the final decision has not yet been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u65	Please, Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u66	Please give the floor to my comrade in the Company of Ansimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u67	Anisimova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u68	Thank you. Anisim, the Communist faction. Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, you said in your statement that the evaluation was based on international standards. How do you explain then that the Creebral was estimated at 3.8 billion grevens, and the Polish factory, which is 5 times smaller than Creebrals, was estimated at $1 billion, that is, one and a half times higher. I mean, it's going to be 10 times almost. That's the first question. And question two. Why were businesses and firms allowed to tender for the sale of Crimsonstalli, which had declared bankruptcy and therefore did not pay their creditors their debts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u69	Thank you. With regard to the evaluation directly, we now have a basic evaluation law adopted by the Supreme Council. As a follow-up to the Act, standards of evaluation were adopted and regulations adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers were adopted and evaluation methods approved. Therefore, independent evaluators who are licensed to work in the evaluation market are guided by these basic regulatory instruments and carry out an evaluation. Therefore, when the “Criminalis” assessment was conducted, an independent evaluator was first selected at the competition, licensed in the evaluation market, and then a contract was concluded with him and he made an assessment accordingly. As for firms that you say are bankrupt and that don't pay, I don't know which firms you're talking about, but those firms or those corporations, those financial and industrial groups, the consortium that paid 4.6. Four billion 260 million dollars in my budget is not the language that turns it into bankruptcy. $800 million has gone into the budget and has already been allocated to all social benefits, including salaries and pensions and so on. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The Chairman of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization of Valentin Petrovna Seminyuk has the floor for the report. The truth here is that the reporter has less time than the co-reporter. This cannot be decided because there is a decision of the Rules, there is a Rules, and not a Committee decides. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u71	The Holding Fund is happy to report on the implementation of the planned privatisation cost assignment. However, for the sake of justice, it cannot be overlooked that the Fund’s efforts were in fact limited to 66 percent of the planned tasks and that the rest of the task was carried out by Skretelekom, who sold the UMC package, not even the fund. Moreover, the way privatization is carried out does not give any reason for optimism, on the contrary, to cause deep anxiety and resentment to every member and honest citizen of Ukraine. Clearly, privatization of state property should not be an end in itself, reforming the economy, is just a means of enhancing its effectiveness. Obviously, the impact of privatization on economic efficiency should be in its structural changes in terms of increasing the share of high-tech products, creating new jobs, increasing profitability, and so on. However, there is no analysis of the consequences of privatization in this report. At the same time, since the privatization process in our country is too subjective because it depends on the will and desire of the nation’s first inhabitants, it is now causing crises and situations in some areas and threatening the national security of the country. As a result of privatization, the State has in fact lost control over production in the vast majority of the basic industries and spheres of its activities. Here I would like to point out to the natives of global privatization that, according to the employment rate of the public sector's public sector in developed countries, there are now between 15 percent in Britain and 32 percent in Switzerland, with an average of 18-20 percent. At the same time, from year to year, the weight of the public sector is increasing. The fact is, too, that when the question of the privatization of energy companies was raised in France today, millions of citizens were protesting against the decision. Obviously, the state sector is protected and appreciated abroad. We have the opposite. Yet, contrary to the world’s trends and national interests, our authorities have taken a course to reduce the economic sector’s drinking weight to 8 percent. The fact that we are not guided by the privatization process and are not scientifically based no longer gives rise to any doubt. In spite of the national interests of the State, the privatization of strategic enterprises continues, with profitable ones. Neither the President nor the government is concerned that the whole sector is privatized and monopolized in the country, and some are foreign owners. Basically, it goes to the secondary market of securities that constantly bring us unpleasant surprises. That is a sharp increase in fuel prices, so farmers cannot buy mineral fertilizers from domestic production, because privatized enterprises are oriented towards a foreign consumer. So the metal industry is suffering from a sharp rise in prices. I'm sorry, I'm It is the owners of the privatized skyscrapers who demolish our cities and villages by directing us from Canada, the United States, Israel, or Russia. At the same time, we don't get modern technology, we just have economic problems. So why are these problems not the subject of consideration by the National Security and Defence Council? Because of total corruption, privatization is used by clans to enrich themselves at the expense of the State Budget. And today's leadership of the Fund has forgotten that under the Act on Privatization of State Property, privatization aims to increase the socio-economic efficiency of production, i.e. increase the welfare of the people. Simply put, the Law provides that if an enterprise has, works ineffectively, it must be sold to a private owner, provided that the new owner ensures that jobs are preserved primarily, that is, that is, that is, that there is a decent level of wages, that taxes are paid, that is, that is, that is, that effective income production is ensured. The law, however, stipulates that the term of such obligations is set to five years, and I emphasize that it is up to five years. If these obligations are not fulfilled, the object sold must be returned to public property and fines should be applied to the owner. Let us now see how many private owners of the fund have made such maximum commitments? One more. Only one object sold on condition that the new owner, in addition to technological modernization of production, is obliged to maintain the available number of jobs for five years without a reduction in wages, maintenance of the social sphere, and payment of budget taxes at the level reached at least last year. The owners of the rest of the privatized enterprises can drive out workers on the street after six months. Moreover, privatized enterprises may be able to deal with losses, since the public budget is filled by paying taxes to the fund. True, the four new owners of businesses in 2003 were obliged to have the right to provide for a nonprofit activity, that is, to earn at least one penny. So as the fund contributes to the effective activity of privatized enterprises in the paws, you have heard. It is not surprising, then, that 59 percent of privatized industrial enterprises are damaged by the Fund’s statistics. Of course, those who are not familiar with the privatization process may think that there may be major achievements with regard to the implementation of another privatization task, the involvement of funds in the fund. Yet, the fund’s gains are still minimal. Thanks to the imperfect methodology developed by the Fund and approved by Kabmin and the past, as in previous years, stocks are sold at the price of the last century, that is, 1995. Not only are the basic asset indices for April 1, 1996, but even the inflation index, which has exceeded 350 percent since 1995, are accounted for. We analyzed the sale of a stock package of between 51 and 99 percent of the statutory fund of 14 companies and found that the final total price of these packages was only higher than the original amount of 3.4 million dollars. Such “successes” have been achieved through opacity and, more faithfully, corruption in the conduct of competitions. Because it has become a system that the potential of buyers who offer higher prices is prevented from participating in the competition. The winner is identified as a member of the clan, who often pays the price several times lower than the market price and does not assume the obligation to ensure that the business is profitable or to save jobs. It's impossible not to mention the cynical competition for the sale of VAT to the Nicopoli Ferrospoline Plant when the government, together with the Holding Fund, applied a double scheme to fully guarantee the cost of the government's stock package, after which, first, the stock control package was split into two blocks. And secondly, the additional terms of the competition are written under one buyer. This is an example of how transparently on "competitive principles" state monopolies have become private. Of course, the fund often complains that a large proportion of the companies it sells are corrupt. But it cannot be overlooked that the fund itself is involved in leading businesses into bankruptcy. And such facts were established by the commission when it considered the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council for the theft of property on the VAT "Clean Metals". So, contrary to national interests and in violation of current legislation, the fund released the previous VAT manager, Clean Metals, who recovered the entire property complex and appointed a manager who, less than a month after his appointment, lost ownership of almost all property. It should be said that the fund's officials gave the commission false information about the state of affairs on the "Clean Metals" VAT, covering up the actions of the new manager who caused significant material damage to the enterprise and the state. Thus, members of the commission had to organize a trip to the factory to make sure that representatives of the fund and other government authorities were convinced that their actions led to the liquidation of a unique enterprise. It should not be overlooked that the provision of unreliable information has become a norm for the State Property Fund. And when the commission has repeatedly established such facts, yet even after the Fund has been caught in the heat, it continues to provide both oral and written misinformation. That is, for the Fund’s leadership today, it has become a normal norm. Of course, we are concerned about the conduct of senior officials of the state because it is incompatible with its high status. It should be noted that although four years have passed since the State Privatization Programme became operational, the State Property Fund has not yet developed the normative documents required by the current programme. In particular, I will stop at normative documents, which are largely limited by the rights of citizens in the process of privatization. The Fund has not established an order for mandatory release by shareholders of shares that voted against the decision to alienate property, as required by paragraph 144 of the current program. And paragraph 59 of the State Privatisation Programme states that those who have acquired shares in the premiums, namely, workers who are mainly privatised, and pensioners of this enterprise, can transfer these shares to the Fund for sale, along with the controlling shareholdings sold by the Fund. After the sale, the Fund has to reimburse the listed shareholders for the price set at the competition. I'm going to point out that the legislator has set this rule in order to protect small shareholders, i.e. employees of a privatized enterprise, because once the control package is privatized, they're depreciated. How does the Fund implement this standard? When VAT shareholders asked the holding fund to sell their shares along with the stock control package, the Fund advised them to go to the so-called investor and make a deal with him on their own to sell the shares. And if you look at privatization and the recent implementation of the Crimsonstals, the employees of strategic enterprises have been deprived of their constitutional rights in general. Because now, in the pre-election heat, the Fund sells 90 percent of the shares and then just subscribes. I'd like to ask the members of the majority who voted against suspending the hasty privatization of the "Criminals": who now needs the shares of small shareholders? At the Creatures Company, 70,000 of them are 55,000 workers plus pensioners. It is clear that such a limitation of rights should draw the attention of the authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, since the Attorney General is not in a hurry to protect the interests of citizens or the interests of the State. They were ignored by the Reserve Fund and by the 2002 Supreme Council regulation No. 406, which, inter alia, established that the fund should prevent the reduction of the state share of assets in statutory equity funds by increasing statutory funds. However, in 2003, the State Property Fund was allowed to carry out an additional issue on VAT "Ingullecki." and supported the initiative to make an additional issue of Oranta's National Shareholder Insurance Company, which the Holding Fund has allowed to carry out this year, which has caused the State large-scale material damage. So first, the stock control packet goes down to the blocking unit, and then they say that the blocking stock package doesn't allow the company to control it, and they sell it for nothing. Another way of shadowy privatization by the authorities is by tearing property apart for their people. This is done in an essential way: a limited liability society is formed, and state property is transferred to a statutory fund and corporate rights are acquired in return. It's like everything's fine. But somehow part of the state in all these societies is always less than 50 percent, and this makes the state completely independent of the business, so it has no influence. That is, it can be thought that this property is donated to commercial structures. A clear example is the creation of a central apparatus. The Donbas Trading Fleet, which was transferred the state property of the Azov Sea Sailing to a total of 129 million dollars, including 34 seagoing vessels. In this society, the state also made up 25 percent. In the last two years alone, the Society has donated more than 380 million dollars of government property without receiving a copy of it. At the same time, the Fund has consistently stated the need to improve corporate governance. It turns out that one thing says, the other one thinks, and does everything they say from above. In assessing the overall summary of privatization during the reporting period, it should be noted that they show that the fund does not come out of state but rather from narrowly prominent interests, execution. Their coming into the budget, privatising, first and foremost, high-cost and investment attractive enterprises, in which the state has invested enormous costs before privatisation. At the same time, the price of selling such businesses was virtually not in line with their fair market price. Conclusion: The Fund's sustainable privatization does not meet either the objective or the principles of the process established by legislation. All the trouble of both the fund and Mr. Chechtov is that the interests of the State and their personal interest are not met in the noble field of service of the Ukrainian people. I want to go to the parliamentary majority, who now has the largest vote in Parliament, which is about the time to think about the real one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u72	Microphone, please. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u73	The problem with the foundation and Mr. Chechchev is that interest and their personal interest are not met in the noble field of service to the Ukrainian people. I want to go to the parliamentary majority, who now has the largest vote in Parliament, which is about the time to think about the real assessment of Parliament by the people, because they are talking about something else today. Let's think about what we're going to leave our children in grandchildren and what we're going to do then, after we get out of this room accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's call it a break. After a break, you will be able to ask a question to the reporter. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. And then after the break, right? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u75	We're continuing the meeting. Please, five minutes to ask. Carmazine. After him, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u76	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the "Our Ukraine" block of Victor Yushchenka. I sincerely thank you for your courage during the talk. I'd like to ask you three short questions. First question. You called it corruption. What evidence do you have of this? The second question. You probably know that the secret government order of the former Blasco C.U.C.C.C. was passed over to C.T., but now I have information about a serious sale, that is, privatization, and you don't control it. And the third. What should be done with the 14 national deputies of Ukraine today? Is this in line with the legislation on the status of the national MP and the fight against corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u77	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. As far as evidence of corruption is concerned. I have in my hands a copy of the President's special letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which he himself is said to write: "to lobby the interests of economic groups, including criminal origin, with the aim of controlling individual industries and businesses." If you look at the materials of the Special Monitoring Commission that we've been looking at, especially the Orant, in the Ingulac, at the Nicopolian Ferrous Plant, these are the standards that are set out in the President's letter, and that's why these actions are defined by the President himself. And I think the President writes in that letter that the holding fund should not only read what they are told, but also read the message of the President himself, not set up. Moreover, the President here has clearly pointed out such corruption. And I think that's proof. Under secret orders. First of all, I thank you very much for the information, because we can't control everything today. You see basically the Special Supervisory Commission, and not only does it find that there is a violation of privatization, but it also provides draft laws that would make it impossible for us to steal today. I think the information you gave, I'm going to take control, and I'm going to consider it your MP's request, and I hope you can help me with that. Regarding the work of the holding companies. You've heard me perform here on this stand in the administration of public property, and I've noticed the work of holding. In fact, holdings are created and transferred to them, and there is no budget for these holdings. There's no legal basis for these companies to be able to ask: why is this work going on, why there's no dividend settlement, because they're created on the basis of Presidential decrees, and the standards are written in such a way that they're recalculated. And I think that if the Law on Government Property Management was signed, and you can see that it's being submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, it's being visited by the same officials, and then we're being admitted to Parliament. Needless to say, the President notes in his letter that acceptance of it is essential in the first place. This is indicated in the letter and in 2001, 2003 and 2004. And then when Parliament passed this law, it's promised and prepared by the veto by the same officials. So we're running around. And the non - acceptance of such normative instruments provides, first and foremost, the possibility of using shuler approaches to the administration of public property, including holding companies, the more the non - adoption of the Law on the Administration of State Property Objects. I think I will be sure to announce this list in the session room after the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Don't be selfish, ask one question at a time, two questions at a time. You can see that one question took all the time. Please, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u79	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First. Perhaps such criticism at the head of the holding fund surprises me that we are now discussing the issue of the lack of leadership of the State Property Fund. [[Somewhere he was.]] Dear Valentina Petrovna, you may have mentioned the parliamentary majority five times in your speech. But I do believe that the mandate of the Special Supervisory Commission for Privatization is no less than that, right? The question is. You probably have information, maybe you've analyzed, there's some statistics about the implementation of privatization contracts, the sale, the liabilities that new owners have to make? That's the first question. And what do you propose, as Head of this commission, that we legislatively produce a mechanism that would really enable us now to effectively manage state property, corporate rights that is not working at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to say that we analyzed in 2003, we took large businesses where more than 50 percent of the properties were sold. I can tell you, out of the 16 objects listed in the holding report, there are only two listed conditions. I mean, this rule of competition allowed the legislator to write to the State Property Fund. And he writes, instead of implementing the Privatisation Act, in particular article 27 of the Law on Privatisation of State Property, where the level of wages should be clearly preserved for 5 years, the profitability of the enterprise is not below the previous period, and the preservation of social property is not recorded under the terms of the competition. You can't just write it down on one condition -- we're selling it for our own. And what I've been publishing here is not just my words as the Head of the Special Monitoring Commission, it's all spoken by the MPs who represent both the majority and the minority. I did not happen to speak about the Law on the Administration of State Property. If the President decides to take him first, he's in the session room, so why isn't he in? I'm not in the picture of the majority, I'm in the plan because if there's a majority commitment, if you've agreed with the President and with the government to do his messages and accept the relevant normative documents, let's take them. And if running around the circle that the Property Fund is doing today with Kabmin, you're making sure of what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u81	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. Now you're going to speak, you're going to have a word, and there's going to be a procedure. We've got nine minutes to talk. Please, Borszewski. Get ready, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u82	Respectable colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I wanted to refer, by procedure, including to all the deputies and the majority, that is their attitude, in general, the Supreme Council is demonstrating today, our hero today, so to speak, the Chairman of the Property Fund, who is missing. Perhaps you should also give protocol now to search for him. As we discuss this crucial issue in the absence. Oh, thank you, thank you, we can go on now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u83	Your assignment has already been completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u84	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing a very serious issue concerning a million of our fellow citizens, which is the report of the Property Fund. But to be honest and correct, what this fund represents today, I would call it the Capitalization Fund. Because it was he who was in the vanguard of those forces who were persistently and thoughtlessly requisitioning the people of their common heritage, their businesses that had been made by their hands, and handing them over to the benefit of some individuals. A good example of this thoughtless position is to sell, and then at least the flood is to privatize the Crimsons. There are many issues left after the report of the Chairman of the Mine Fund. First question. What was the "Criminal" for anyway? We and the ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers were trying to convince them that it was a good commodity, that no one would give a penny for it in two years. Then I'm asking you, did we have two locusts in the Power - Ahemtov and Pinchuk, who bought this dependent beef? Second question. Effectiveness of enterprises. All the privatization in the Dnepropetrov region I represent is that no efficiency has been achieved. Moreover, today I am told that privatized enterprises are effective. I have a document from the Ministry of Justice that says that one of the buyers of the "Criminal" Aovstall to the state of 10.06.04 owed half a billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u85	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u86	Therefore, the entire progress of the report and the outstanding issues indicate that, firstly, we need to put order in the privatization process, and specifically on today's issue, we need to entrust the Office of the Prosecutor-General to investigate the actions of the fund, in the case of the sale of the Krivorostali, and the Chairman of the Property Fund must be retired for violations, gross violations of legislation, the interests of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u87	Please have the floor of the national deputy Lucenko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u88	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. What is Ukraine’s State Property Fund? The idea is that a good host who cares about government property should stimulate its development in every way to bring certain dividends to the State and only in extreme cases sell inefficient objects. It's an idea. And in fact, we have a completely different picture: the dividend collection is down 100 million. Last year's anniversary, I emphasize, 100 million dollars. The money was not obtained by the State for the use of its national property. Including Naftogaz didn't pay a penny, he's the main debtor of this chapter, but he and Kuchma are building a joint venture in Libya. He's got money for that. He doesn't always have enough money for our pensioners. Another question. Absence of the Fund for the Management of State Property. What if there are no registers of all property? It's being scattered around different Dussams today through presidential decrees that are not only published by the Crimean palaces, which is somehow understandable, but also by the conservatory that he's with them, Kuchma, doing, I don't know, spirit factories, here I know, woodchoppers, of course, fishhouses, already a Kiev pier. Where's he going? But the key question for the Holding Fund and for Mr. Chechtov is procurement privatization. I'll send Mr. Kuchma's address in his letter to the Supreme Council. There, in the section on inefficient control of property conversion, he said, "Ukraine is lobbying the interests of economic groups, including criminal origin, with the aim of controlling individual sectors of the economy." We have Kuchma, as he always looked at the water, but apparently he was looking in the mirror when he wrote that phrase. We really do have the privilege of privatizing in the interests of his family, first of all. Two examples. It's a 75-million-dollar sealed aluminum combination. With Kuchma’s blessing, he borrows government loans from the World Bank. Here this enterprise is privatized by 70 million. Without the obligation to pay off that loan. He's buying it. Of course, the beloved son-in-law was the first granddaughter then. A year later, he sells for 100 million dollars. in the secondary market, and the state is still paying 75 million today. for the World Bank loan received. The second example is probably already known to everyone, but nevertheless. "Bloodystone." The profitability of the company is 44 percent, the profit of more than a billion, but such an enterprise is unnecessary for neither Mr. Chechtov nor our state nor our pensioners or our civil servants. It must be sold, of course. Who? Again, of course, my son-in-law is on his second granddaughter's birthday. That's exactly the case you're talking about. It's sold for a small sum, $300 million was given, it wasn't taken, because it's not ours, it's not ours, it's not family offers. So they sold it, of course, as they needed it, and they sold it to whom they needed it. In the people, Mr. Chechetov, they say, "Not caught, but a thief."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u89	The word has the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u90	I'll give Yuri Carmazin a minute at his request. And here's what I'm going to say. Today, when we hear a report from the State Property Fund, we can say, irrespective of Chechtov, this applies to all those who headed the State Property Fund, which in his person has a good purpose turned into a Marauder organization. That's an absolute fact. Today, let's say that Poles, who are transparent and understandable to the people, for every Pole, have privatized, all advertised contests, all the money they've earned from privatization, went to the Polish economy, and through the Polish economy they've returned to the social sphere, and because of that, the Poles are living more human lives today, and we Ukrainians are still living. Privatization is taking place on many levels. Down there, some small officials grab shopkeepers, grab warehouses, and so forth. A little bit above the average level, they're already burying for themselves, let's say there's a whole house out there in big cities and stuff. And of course, the President's favorites -- godfathers, saints, daughters of ministers, deputy ministers, all the officials -- are taking off these last peaks that we have today in Ukraine. That's why I'm saying again that today, by the end, when they're there, there's something else, there's something else, there's something else, there's something that's a little bit more, after Kushma, there's something else there, and there's something else to find, and in fact, there's something else that's been devoted to today. Most importantly, all privatization was done for stolen money in the same state. So this is absolutely double evil. I understand Chechtov, but I was waiting for, well, maybe he'll suddenly, well, rise up when he sees how people today view the privatisation of the Crevices, as the poachers do. Well, someone would have to say, "Well, good people, but what are you doing? This is the most expensive thing we have in Ukraine today. We've been silent, we've been sitting, and Parliament's been swallowing all this stuff -- and that's it. I'm asking Karmazin to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u91	Please, Karmazin. 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that according to today's report, particularly Mrs. Semenyuk's report, we can clearly see that the State Property Fund is increasingly being transformed into a branch of the President's Administration for the sale of the holding, or the distribution of the holding, among the oligarchy clans. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in a year, the number of farms that have more than 50 percent of the state share in statutory funds is declining by 10.4. And this is a very destructive trend. In general, 13.2 decreases the number of companies with a government share of property in the statutory funds. I point out to you that in holding companies, 14 Ukrainian national deputies are still active. I think it's unacceptable, I think it's a corrupt act. From the President's Administration, these are three people, 25 from the Cabinet of Ministers, 89 from the Ministry, and so on. And we see with you, who ruled and how? I'd like to ask the Privatization Commission to prepare this data and give it to the people's deputies: on the efficiency of governance and who manages our state property. Please do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's make up our minds. We have four draft decrees: this decree 5627 - by the people's deputies Semenyuk, Kirilczuk, School; Bill 5427-1 - by the people's deputies, here a large group of national deputies, representatives of the majority, I understand -- Sharov, Noshtenko, Bogityrov and others; Bill 5627-2 by the people's deputies Nikolayenko, Bokim; and draft decree 5627-3 by Rudzikowski, Baraniwski, Melnik. In such a sequence, we will put it to a vote. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies. If you'd like to write it down, please. Three minutes and we'll vote. Yes, please explain. Sobolen. After him, Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u94	Sobolev, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I'm even less concerned about how many Ahemts there are, Pinchuk bought the Crimson Stallion. Now I'm worried about what's going to happen next with this company. Look at the information collected by our colleague Karmazin. The Nicopolsky Ferrospion plant actually reduced wages by 6 times in Ukraine's budget in two years after privatisation. This is the result of the looting of Ukraine’s most elite businesses. That's why we need to get reliable information on how much taxes are paid by enterprises that have been privatized. Because as long as it goes into the pockets of the owners, washing through offshore companies, we understand that. How much money does the budget go into? That's why I would support Semenyuk's proposal, and I would vote in favour of this draft decree, because without that data, we'll never get order in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u95	Please, Konovaluk. Get ready for Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, first of all, I'd like to look at the fact that we really shouldn't be looking at the issue solely in the plane, on the one hand, of the class struggle, on the other hand, to leave something of state property after someone gets power this year. We need to look at the problems that really hinder the work of state property now. And by determination. 5627-1 we're proposing a series of questions that will really enable the Fund to work better. Me, too. It seems to me that the three deputies who signed up are not enough to explain their position and other factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u98	Borszewski, Company, Dnepropetrovsk oblast. I call on all deputies today to support this first draft of Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk, because the Property Fund has also grossly deceived workers. No guarantees of unemployment, on the basis of the profitability of the enterprise, were imposed at the level of wages in the collective trade contract. That's why the 55,000 people today have become hostages to the will of the new masters. That is why I am also asking the majority to support this project. The Supreme Council must speak its own big word. Even more legally, it is the owner of all state property in Ukraine. I want the Supreme Council to show its will for once and show that it protects not someone in the Bank but its electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Be careful, we'll now put the bill in order to register. All draft decrees are based. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the State Property Fund report on the implementation of the State Privatization Programme 2000-2002 and 2003, Bill 5627. Take down the vote. I'll call the authors. The authors of this draft decree, Seminouk, School, Kirilchuk, Bill 5627, please identify yourself. [[12:59:56]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Our country is 87, the region of Ukraine is 0; the communists are 56; the Social Democrats, the Democratic Initiatives, the People's Government, the Labour Ukraine is 0; the People's Agrarian Party is 3; the Socialists are 19; the Block of Timoshenko is 19; the Union, the NDP and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and the Centre is 0; the Non-Frakational is 3. The draft Decree 5627-1, the authors of the bill by the majority, is put to the vote. Please. [[13:00:51]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0; "Regions of Ukraine" - 47; Communist - 0; Social-Democratic Party - 35; "Deminitiates", "The People's Government" - 18; "Trud Ukraine" - 28; National Agrarian Party - 20; Socialist - 0; Block Timoshenko - 0; "Soyuz" - 17; NDP and industrialists and entrepreneurs - 14; "Centre" - 3; non-fractional - 4. The draft Decree 5627-2, the authors of the Nikolainko and Boki bill, is put to the vote. [[13:01:51]] For-183 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -84; Regions -0; Communists -55; Social Democrat Democratic Initiative, "The People's Government" and "The Hard Ukraine" -0; People's Agrarian Party -2; Socialists -19; Block Timoshenko -19; Alliance, NDP and Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -0; Centre -1; non-fractional -3. Before the vote, please, Rudzkowski for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u100	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honorable National MPs. I ask you to concentrate and support the next Decision Project. It has such meaningful parts in it. First of all, it prohibits privatization until the end of the presidential campaign, so that we don't have to stretch state property. This is the first time. It's different. The Decision Project recommends that the Property Fund suspend all privatisation processes of the Civoristals. Thirdly, it gives the Privatisation Commission a mandate to verify that the Supreme Council has commissioned the legality of the procedures implemented in the privatization process, for a final decision. I make a change from the authors to the job, including the State Property Fund. And in that form, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u101	Thank you. If I understand you correctly, Rudzkowski, on behalf of the project's authors, is proposing that the work of the State Property Fund be considered satisfactory, right? Rudkovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u102	In order to compromise the adoption of a decision that would prevent further expansion of state property, I believe that a similar decision can be taken. But we all understand that what the State Property Fund does is a crime.).
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u103	Please answer the question. Are you proposing to replace the rating "unsatisfactory"? It's not enough and it's ineffective. Are you making an offer to be satisfied?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u104	No, I stand in the position that the work of the State Property Fund is unsatisfactory and leads to criminal crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u105	Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a draft ruling to the vote. Authors: Rudzkowski, Baranowski and Melnik Registration number 5627-3. [[13:05:06]] For 139 The decision is not taken. So we have a proposal, a draft of the first Semenyuk project is the largest number, 187 votes. There's a proposal to put this motion of determination on the ground. Thus, according to the rating vote of four draft decrees, the largest number of votes was the draft decree, which was sponsored by the national deputy Semenyuk, School, and Kirilchuk. Registration number of this bill 5627. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council decision on the report of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme 2000-2002 and 2003. Registration number 5627. [[13:06:25]] For 190 That's how. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 93, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 54, Social Democrats, "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government", "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 1, Socialists - 18, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz", NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 0, "Centre" - 1, "Posafrational" - 4. So, dear fellows, you and I have made no decision. Please, Semenyuk, follow her, Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u106	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, we are meeting our constitutional standard today -- we listen to the State Property Fund every year. And we should make the right decision on this matter. Adam Ivanovich, let's compromise then -- let's vote for the direction, as my decision has won the most votes, for the re-reading. And all the suggestions I'm going to make to the commission, and we're going to take the appropriate comments of those who have submitted members of the commission and not members of the commission, other parliamentary groups and factions, in general, and we're going to put in a second session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u107	Please, noschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u108	Dear Chief, the honourable ones are present! I'm one of the authors of Bill 5627-1. This bill has one less vote than the previous one you just put to the vote. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u109	Yes, Your Honor, put your hands down, we'll determine now, we'll determine. I put it to the vote at the request of the deputies. Indeed, there is only one voice in the project. I'm voting on a draft decree by a group of people's deputies, representing the majority, bill number 5627-1. [[13:09:05]] For-188. Dear colleagues, I'm making a proposal: let's vote on such an order as to assign a special review committee on the basis of four draft decrees to make an agreed decision. Please vote. [[13:09:41]] For 258. Decision taken. That's how. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 91, “Regions of Ukraine” - 51, Communist faction - 52, SDPU - 0, “Deminicatives” and “The People’s Government” - 0, “Trust Ukraine” - 0, “The People’s Agrarian Party” - 13, “SPU” - 19, “Timoshenko Block” - 19, “Soyuz” - 0, “NDP” - 1, “Centre” - 4, “Afterfractional” - 8. So we decided that the special control commission would offer us a consistent solution to the State Property Fund report. Here we go to the draft law amending some Ukrainian privatization laws, registration number 4230. Ukrainian National Deputy Seminouk Valentina Petrovna reports. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! I'm not going to repeat myself because of the privatizations we had in the previous period and in 2003. That is what I said in my report, both in the State Property Fund report today and at parliamentary hearings. First of all, we don't have the state's level of security for our functions today, which would first of all give us the possibility of retaining a piece of state property that could fully enable us to have a permanent budget. And that's the main factor. I also called the figures for other states where there is a share of government property that makes a steady profit in the budget. I'll give you just one example: in Germany today 12.9 percent of government property. The budget for these companies is almost 90. 57 percent. The work of utilities is 57 percent. Those problems that I heard at the parliamentary hearings tell us that we had not yet privatized public property objects, and we had not set up proper registers. It was only after the parliamentary hearings that the Cabinet of Ministers adopted this decree and commissioned the State Property Fund to do so. Knowing these difficulties, members of the Special Monitoring Commission, such as Semenjuk, Bastrig, Greens, Blacks, Matthews, Sevkovich, Savitsky, at their meeting, seeing the difficulties, are introducing a draft law which, first of all, provides an opportunity to say about strategically appointed objects. So we went out with a legislative initiative based on two factors. Let's create a register of state property for strategically designated objects that would provide the state's capacity to fill the budget. That's the main offer. Secondly, we want to sort out the contradictions between the Privatization Programme, the Law on Privatization of State Property. We agree that part two of article five of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property will be as follows: "Pravatisations are not subject to objects which are of general and strategic importance to the economy and security of the state, as well as to the execution of enterprises." That's what we're taking into account also the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Department that made the remarks. We also propose, in privatization, that there be responsibility for the results of farming. To this end, we note in article 27 that we are making an appropriate amendment to the law, where the sale contract should present technical and economic justifications for the post-privatisation period. That's what we call it, based on two factors. But the situation that's taken place at the Crimsonstall says what. We even went to a meeting there, to a labor group at Crimsonstally, and we saw that a trade committee, a labor team requires, first and foremost, the preservation of the social sphere, the level of wages, the non-retribution of jobs. But the terms of the holding fund competition were written in this way because this article was not exactly written out that the State Property Fund had written them out so that workers working in this company could actually be deprived of jobs six months later. So we came out of what we write clearly in the article that there should be technical and economic justifications, certainly the conditions for privatization should be with a clear definition of job conservation and social guarantees. Taking into account the comments made by the Scientific and Experimental Department of the Administration, we are amending article 1 of the Ukrainian National Privatisation Program, which is currently in operation. This privatization program does not extend to objects of H and E. We emerged from the following factors. Today, a new privatization programme has not been adopted. In line with the transitional provisions of the Privatisation Programme, it is in place before the adoption of a new privatization programme. But the privatization program today is followed by privatization of both large enterprises and strategic targets that are essential to the economy of the state. So we say, let's deal with what we've already privatized, especially strategically assigned objects, we'll do inventory, let's figure out who still manages these parts, because we're in Ukraine today, because one part of us is managing ministries, the other part is run by the State Property Fund, run by the Duchy, other ministries have created the ICC, and that's why we're out of the fact that we're going to create a register of state property for strategically assigned objects, we're going to define who's responsible for it, and we're going to make arrangements for those who are entitled to this administration and their responsibility for doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u111	Yes, please sign up for the questions. Let me explain. Yeah, three minutes, five minutes. Yavorowski. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." Ms. Valentino, I have such a question for you, so forward on tomorrow. Would you please say, for example, Victor Yashchenk's election victory will you support the idea of privatizing the President's powers? I've been doing this for about a year, Dutch. And you know, that's how I find the end, and I can't. Do you think it's worth it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u113	I thank you for asking. I am an MP who has arranged the submission of 67 deputies to the Constitutional Court in respect of the so-called Presidential decrees, which are published under the heading "Publication is not subject", so-called, DuSa. There had already been a plenary session at the Constitutional Court, and I reported there for two days, and a due process had taken place. Let's first figure out what we've passed on, or just the dams that you call them, or the liquor factories, and the conservatory, and the liquor industries, and the liquor companies. I believe that the State must manage these objects today, not on the interests of any president, but on the interests of the Ukrainian people. And if there are state enterprises, whether there's a sentence or a utility, it should serve the people, not just one appropriate individual, even being president of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u114	Please ask questions. Dry. Get ready for Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u115	Valentino Petrovno. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Trudova Ukraine. I have a question for you as to the co-author and a report on this bill. You're the head of the Special Commission, so you and the cards are in your hands. As I understand it, the main task of your committee is to provide for the process of privatization. Please tell me your bill, which you are now reporting, will it carry out this task: the legislative provision of privatization processes, the disengagement of the economy, or do you intend to curb privatization processes? The second question may not be answered because it is moral. You've been in this session for two years and you've just been in the rostrum for the fourth time. [[Governmental Administration of Matters]] You're personally being treated in Fefania, you're taking sanatorium trips from the State Department? People may feel that someone who's bad is using all these benefits, and we're not here for anything. That's not nice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u116	Thank you. First of all, the Special Supervisory Board, its mandate is determined by a position approved in accordance with Article 10 of the Privatization Program Act. Our function is purely controlled. But seeing the big problems I'm having as a deputy with the members of our committee, and with the majority we're giving you a document that will give you the first opportunity to deal with the problems that we see at the board meeting. And when we're approached by a commission regardless of political views, whether it's Boyko from "Trouble Ukraine," it's you or someone else who's talking to us. As far as the soul is I want to tell you one more time, I'm taking a trip to the State Administration to the Supreme Council, not the President's. That's a big difference. And we don't have a government. And I think that these enterprises should be under the control of the state again. And if I'm buying a trip, I'm buying it at the expense of everyone who's sitting there, respectively. It's a moral side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u117	Please, Frost Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the honorable Valentina Petrovna! In fact, the analysis of the bill that we are currently considering shows that it must be accepted. Because he normalizes things that were previously outside the articles of the law. And putting order here, and making changes to the law or privatization program, and especially the exclusion of strategic objects that are not subject to privatization -- I think that's what needs to be done. But there's a line. I didn't even want to raise that question, but from the question that the previous deputy asked you, I didn't even know that I had been treated for many years in different institutions, and I had to thank the State Administration, especially his supervisor. And from that question, it sounds like we should be so grateful not to mention the shortcomings that are there. Because, for example, I still don't understand why this administration is running a vodka plant. That's why I think you're in position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u119	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! I want to say that the Constitutional Court, when it comes to the question of "Dussy," will make the right conclusions. More than that, one thing to consider. And I thank scientists who, by secret decrees of the President, have issued positive conclusions on our application of five colleges in public administration. This suggests that the deputies who signed the constitutional application were right in that everything should be in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Law on the Management of State Property Objects, which we should accept in this Hall. This is what the same message of the President to Parliament has pointed out for three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u120	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. The first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Households, Property and Investments, Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u121	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Economic Policy and Public Administration, Property and Investment reviewed the draft law. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal regulation of privatization, the direction of increasing the influence of the State and the local territorial states on this process, the clear definition of the way in which ownership has been moved to various privatization sites, and the provision of greater transparency to privatization processes. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the proposed draft law can be based on further consideration of the comments and suggestions made. The committee decided by majority to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u122	Questions, please. Sign up, three minutes. On the board, please, the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u123	Your Honor, I'm surprised you announced the verdict of the committee without any motivation. Please explain what the committee was guided by in making such a decision. Well, we can see what's going on with the Creatures, which might happen to the Creatures, what happened to the Ferroplanes, and these examples can be repeated to infinity. Please bring the committee's argument so we can know who's behind the state and who's against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u124	I made a statement to the committee. We have been discussing this issue for a long time. There is one opinion that we have not reached consensus. As a result of the vote, a two-vote vote was taken. Personally, I will support this bill. Speaking of motivations. There was a difference in motive. This is also a list of strategic sites of strategic importance. The need to adopt the Fund Act and the Privatization Programme more quickly and to reflect all these activities. As a result of the lengthy discussion, we put to the vote, and I have reported to you the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u125	Polomarenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u126	Pass the word to Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u127	Please. Oh, no? Jaroslav Suhi, faction of "Ukraine". The Hard Ukraine faction, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u128	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Trudova Ukraine. Volodymyr Anatolyovich, I'd like to ask you a question of this conceptual order, because your committee has studied this bill perfectly. I had, for example, a personal impression, there's a lot of suspicions, there's a lot of politics. And this statement by one of the co-authors that our task of this bill was to figure something out and so forth. Please ask me one question. This bill, as a whole, improves privatization processes, is it designed to curb the processes of privatization and economic dissipation?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u129	First, with regard to the Committee's policy and position on privatization in general. The Committee on Economic Policy and we have been doing this for two years has not been able to place political issues at the top of our agenda. We don't have interfractional relations, we have the only question is economic policy. And the collective that took place today in the committee, it deals with any issue with only one position, it is not my personal opinion, we and the committee have discussed it on more than one occasion, that is, we do not address policy issues, although, of course, economic policy is, in general, also an instrument for achieving the goal. You can't divide it, so to speak, from politics at all. As far as the bill is concerned, it is not the opinion of the committee, I would like to say my opinion. I believe that it will not be a catalyst for the privatization process, but, at some points, for strategic facilities, it will even slow down processes, because if we speak and conceptually strategically claim that yes, we are going to universal privatization and the privatization programme by 2008 provides for the completion of the privatization process, i.e. we must leave the public sector completely, only executed enterprises remain, so that this process, the quality of the process, of course, needs to be provided by law. But under various pretexts today, the question can be asked is that let's move out strategic enterprises that are particularly important, because in fact, if an investor comes from a country or abroad even into a strategic enterprise, it is not going anywhere, it is working in Ukraine. And we have enough power and power and tax administration and all the power ministries that can ensure transparency. The main thing is to ensure the transparency of business, so that we do not get that we have 10 holes in the jargon, which are said to be linings, firms that reduce profits. And we have a lot of businesses that don't work very well. That is why I do not believe that this law is very important, although I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Please take your time, Vladimir Anatoliovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion, 15 minutes to discuss. Please give the names of the national deputies on the table for the presentations. Mikola Rudzkowski, get ready for Puzakov. Please, Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u131	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This law must certainly be upheld. But I cannot help but say that the history of Ukrainian privatization will undoubtedly be incorporated into future textbooks on the history of world capitalism. Over the decades, more than 80 per cent of facilities have been moved to private hands in Ukraine. The situation of privatization is increasingly similar to that of the Middle Ages, where there is a constant struggle for ownership, interclan wars, the violation of laws and the dependence of vassals on the Government. Of course, the person who collected the certificates and placed them in production became the owner, and the people were left with nothing. But there are positive examples of privatization. In enterprises where normal managers were able to use privatization to preserve production and jobs, rather than fraud. But, unfortunately, there are few of them. The main problem with Ukrainian privatization is that strategically designated sites have been privatized, and the process has been “serviced to the President - you privatize”. Unfortunately, we do not have open privatization. There's a simple division of property. For today, liquor, alcohol, metallurgical plants have not all been privatized in the country. And now the land has gone round. People have learned false words that privatization is a search for an effective owner who would create the best conditions for the economic development of the enterprise, lose the product, provide services to citizens. The current Government is incapable of resisting privatization to the oligarch, and is taking a bow to it, please, do not raise the price of fuel, oil and lubricants, give the fuel to the plant. At the same time, there is a public refinery, but no one influences it. The question arises that such a way of privatization gives to the State or to the citizen and to the oligarchs. You can't find a bucket of tannery in the village, and we don't have any influence on our own business. Today, in our society, the word “privatization” is synonymous with the word “machination”. That is the case, for the worst way to privatize is now most common: by leading to fictitious bankruptcy. The managers of the enterprise conspire with those who have to buy it. He is given a certain amount of money or a certain amount of income - and is assigned to the enterprise without any promises or special problems, as was done by Chechov with the Crimson. All over the world, they create a legal base and then they work. And we get robbed first, and then they pass laws. Once again, in order for privatization issues to be regulated, this law must be adopted by Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u132	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, the need to adopt this law has confirmed the privatization that has been taking place in recent years. We need to regulate some of the rules and make it clear in the law that the new owners of social finance obligations are firmly anchored in the new owners. We see privatization in the countries that have moved to the Eastern European market relations, especially when some East German enterprises were privatized, one of the main conditions was to preserve the number of jobs, the corresponding level of wages, and to preserve jobs for five years for those who bought the company. When BMV bought the Rover in Britain, the same conditions were laid down: the conservation of jobs, the corresponding wages, and the production volume. And when BMW saw a company that couldn't handle it, it got a billion dollars of damage and sold it. I mean, because every state, when it sells to a foreign owner or to its own, must, first of all, protect the people who work for this company and protect the budget. Unfortunately, we don't have the right legislative framework to protect it. This law also provides an opportunity to protect against stretching out of the presidential election of strategic enterprises into private property. He suggests leaving and stating that strategic enterprises will be in state ownership. I think it's strategic for Ukraine as a state, taking into account that this is the path that European states are going along, leaving enterprises that are viable to the state in state ownership. The existence of state-owned energy systems in France makes it more competitive, because energy costs are much lower than in other European states, and we have economic growth. Ukraine needs to follow such a course, leaving a monopoly company in state ownership. We have the last example of "Creebrisstal," which is "adopted," I would say, by the Donate Clan. I'm going to the daytime propeller elite. Today they're privatizing your factories, your milk factories, your metallurgical combinations, and tomorrow they're gonna come and take your women. It's time to think about yourself and the state. National and regional interests must be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u134	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u135	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The Communist faction would vote in favour of the bill prohibiting the privatization of facilities of strategic importance to the country's economy and security, and would also provide for the definition by law of objects of strategic importance. What objects, in our view, should be of strategic importance? These are primarily defence-related enterprises. A situation could not be allowed in Russia in which a private company from a distant country had begun to produce tank armour. The strategic objectives of laws must also be energy, particularly electricity, railway, land, banking, fundamental and applied science. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine would certainly ensure the nationalization of those strategic facilities that had been privatized if the relevant laws were not adopted. Clearly, the faction would be based on the need for a multifaceted economy. Let business in other sectors of the economy work for the country, but what is strategic for the country must be State-owned. We're told, "But this is going to be a transfer, and then there's going to be a shootout, a civil war, you can't have a transfer." This is the case: when privatization is used to transfer the interests of a narrow, very immoral population by looting the people, it is possible, and when the law on nationalization provides for the return of property, it is already a transfer, it cannot be done, it will be a civil war, it will be killed and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't need to be intimidated, there will be no civil war. If the Company comes to power, the people will vote, no one will go against the people, either obey the law or flee abroad. And when they talk about closets, pay attention. Italy has opposed even international transnational companies. Yes, he was killed, but the same policy continued -- policies that are generally relevant to the socialist agenda -- that is, many strategic enterprises are nationalized. And they have this process, because it works for the economy and for the people. Finally, the distinguished voters, the distinguished people's deputies, I would like to say the following. When an Italian travels from the North to the South in the same Italy, he has the right to travel by public railway, by public road, by good highway, by beautiful highway, by state banks and so on. That is, the public sector of the economy is powerful, working for the people. Let us draw the right conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u137	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! What is Ukraine’s national interest in privatization? It is likely that privatization authorities are looking for an effective owner of inefficient enterprises. Probably in this, Mr. Chechetov, not in selling and selling out as quickly as possible, which is now a task for the presidential election. It is this Law that I owe to the authors that they have realized that the lack of State control, betrayal, in certain cases, of the Maintenance Fund, the absence and betrayal of the Public Prosecutor's Office system, the lack of prosecutorial supervision, the concentration of property in the privatization process, which did not guarantee the economic security of the State as defined in the Constitution of Ukraine, has led the State to lose control over most of the basic industries of industry and the right of ownership to enterprises of the oil industry. In connection with the production of raw materials for the aluminum industry, energy distribution companies that have a strategic state economy and security, concentrated in the hands of representatives of four clans, and representatives of foreign nations, who are clearly at risk of Ukrainian national security today. That is why the changes proposed in the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property provide for a ban on privatization of objects of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State. It is also proposed that changes be made to the way state property is privatized. Taking into account that you and I have not ceased the state privatization programme, which was 2000-2002, it is proposed to submit to the Act on the State Privatisation Programme of 15 May 2000 a supplement on the non-proliferation of this state privatization programme for the objects mentioned. It's a good law or a bad law, let's think about it, it's now going coolly to sell Odessa's booty. This is an enterprise that has strategic implications for budgeting as well. It's an enterprise that's new, it's more modern than even Krivoristal, and it's also planned for a penny, and also, guess twice who it's offered to. I was surprised, and I read in one of the newspaper factions that Mr. Chechetov got excited and said that we would not allow any group to increase into the State Property Fund. We're monitoring that this was bought by one group, this is the other group, this is the third group, this is the fourth group, this was an interview prior to the privatisation of Krivoristal, and the fourth group is not going to get it, it's going to be someone else. I would very much like to have Mikhail Vasilovich do it for the Ukrainian people and that he can make full use of it. I ask you to accept this law in both the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u138	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u139	Eugene the miner, the faction of our Ukraine, the Valley Electoral District number 89. Honorable MPs, honourable voters, are known to be in the territory of Ancient Scythian territory, the famous tactic of the burned-out land on the attack of the enemy. But we have the 20th century, the military threat to Ukraine seems to be invisible, and the impression is that the modern rulers of Ukraine, the Scythians, had decided before the autumn events to proceed according to a sadly established principle: after us at least a flood. I want to reassure some overly concerned government officials, the Oligarchs and deputies of the majority, Victor Yushchenko is not Persian King Darius and will take care of the state and, unlike the Communist authorities of Siberia, you are not in danger. Therefore, there is no need to burn Ukraine. As for wealth and money, no one has taken all the money yet and do not repeat the example of Balzak’s Hobsek. Regrettably, the State Property Fund does not define a State strategy for privatization, but only acts as an operator for the privatization of oligarchs. And the negative effects of this are seen in the naked eye. It's also a one-sided supply of energy, and a spike in gas prices, and a bankruptcy of sugar factories, and other negative consequences. Now comes the disproportionate privatization of both state property and city property, and land, and water -- it's all going to be like after October 31st, the end of the world. It didn't happen. Life will continue. Therefore, as a parliament, we should simply stop the privatization process by the end of this year, especially since the privatisation plan has already been implemented. But considering that this is hardly possible in the present situation, it is worth adopting the proposed bill, even if it is now in the first reading. Yes, it's not ideal, and really some of its positions are controversial and can dampen useful open privatization. But in a situation that has arisen, it is necessary. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading. And I'm addressing the deputies from the majority, vote not to make it painfully painful and offensive for a stolen state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization has been completed. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. On the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization. Based on the base. Please vote. [[13:45:31]] For-167 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. For one more time? The factions, please. Please take the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 73, "Ukraine" - 1, "Communist faction - 48, "SDPU" - 0, "Dem. Initiatives." The People's Government - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian - 2, SPU - 18, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 0, NDP, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, Center - 0, non-fractional - 5. Please, Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u141	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say that this bill was supported by the Industrial Policy Committee, supported by the Ministry of Finance of the Cabinet of Ministers, supported the appropriate district councils that sent their proposals here. I'm asking you very much, let's do it again, all the more so that I didn't reach out with one hand. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, once again put to the vote because many deputies had not reached their seats, had not been concentrated. Let's put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, who is in favour of going back to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Privatization Laws? For your return to the hearing, please vote. [[13:47:11]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act to amend some of Ukraine's privatisation issues for re-reading. Registration number 4230. [[13:47:45]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Conservation and Purposeful Use of Socio-Cultural Purpose Objects in the process of changing the form of ownership of the maintenance subjects is being announced for consideration. Valentina Seminouk, please. We continue our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u143	Your consideration is given to the revised draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the conservation and purposeful use of socio-cultural objects in the process of changing the form of ownership of the maintenance facilities. The project takes into account all the constructive suggestions of the participants about their important problem. We are grateful, first of all, for the district councils, for the district administrations, for the Ministry of Prompolitics, for the agrarian politics, for the Ministry of Culture, for the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, which have sent us proposals. I especially thank Oksani for the substantial suggestions she has made. We've taken into account all the comments that were made in these proposals. We also suggest that the Holding Fund has taken a number of steps to create registers of socio-cultural objects, which is one of the requirements that was made in this session hall, by the way, was the proposal of the Ministry of Culture. I think all the comments that are accepted, taken into account, are defined in the recommendations that are given to you accordingly. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, since there have been additions and suggestions, they are all taken into account, we have every reason to immediately approve the draft decision as a whole. So I understand the committee's proposal? So, honourable colleagues, I'm voting on the whole draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings recommendations, on the conservation and purpose of using socio-cultural objects in the process of changing the form of ownership of the host subjects that support them. Please vote. Well, why don't we vote? [[13:50:04]] For 139 Dear colleagues, I'd like you to read this project, but there's no evaluation moment, there's only one thing to do. Why are we holding parliamentary hearings? To listen and then not vote? So let us not hold parliamentary hearings. Then do not make decisions about holding parliamentary hearings. Well, it's a work indicator, an evaluation of our work with you, actually. I am voting on the approval of the draft Supreme Council decision, registration number 5609, on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the conservation and use of socio-cultural objects in the process of changing the form of ownership of the recipient subjects. Please vote. [[13:51:09]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 74, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communist factions - 0, SDPU (o) - 0, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 11, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, "The People's Agrarians" - 21, "SPU - 17, "Timoshenko Block" - 19, "The Union" - 8, "NDP", "Industry and Entrepreneurs - 15, "Centre" - 9, "Afterfraction" - 4. What, Vladimir Mikhailovich? Well, the decision is not accepted. Work it out. Please, the microphone. Seed microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address all the faction leaders. You spoke at parliamentary hearings, corrected your suggestions. Then tell me, what else can I offer you to take into account your suggestions? That's the first one. You better tell all the Ukrainian people that your job here today is to stretch the property, and that's why you've created most of it here, and that's how you work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u146	The Turks, please. Dear colleagues, the decision is not made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I am addressing those who are actually creating conditions for criminal privatization in Ukraine when, by November in Ukraine, there may not be any strategic activity left at all. And I'm talking to those who want to destroy the social sphere. Since there is little privatization, they are actually giving up the social sphere that these objects accounted for. I think we need to respect ourselves, dear colleagues, our constituents. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put this ruling to the vote again. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Integration of Review and Voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u148	Carmazine, last one, please. Well, if there's no votes, why bet?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, while we are considering the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on the preservation and purposeful use of socio-cultural objects, Yanukovic film theatre "Zoryan" in the center of Kiev on the Pecher hills, is turning its headquarters. It's a disgrace! And you support them today, regionalists! You support them today, Esdeks! You support, "Soyuz"! You're backing up, workers! What are you doing? At the same time today, after your vote, God’s head closes today, making a decision. There'll be General Headquarters. What are you doing, people!Oh, my God! You're not national MPs if you don't vote for it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u150	Please, Valentin Matthew. That's enough, dear fellows. Head of the Regulatory Committee and all. This is a discussion already.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction did not vote twice on the sole reason that there were no evaluation factors. But we now ask you to put in place such a determination even in that form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u152	One minute, calm down! I'm voting on a motion to return to the draft regulation, registration number 5609. Please vote. [[13:54:42]] For 243 I am voting on the approval of the draft regulation, registration number 5609 on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the preservation and purposeful use of socio-cultural objects in the process of changing the form of ownership of operators held as a whole as a determination. Please vote. [[13:55:16]] For 246 It's been decided. Let's move on to the section "Abbreviated procedure." Announcing the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of International Peace Operations. We made a previous decision. A total of 246 people’s deputies were voted in. Yes, the reporter is Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Defence, Valentina Andriyevna. Please, Valentina Andriyevna. Prepare Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations is carried out through the provision of peacekeeping contingents, peacekeeping personnel as well as material and technical resources and services, which are determined by the decision to conduct such operations. This activity has been carried out by Ukraine since July 1992. During this time, more than 20,000 Ukrainian citizens have participated in international peacekeeping operations and are awaiting legislative determination of their status and the establishment of adequate social guarantees. Our fellow countrymen have faithfully carried out and performed duties in peacekeeping contingents or peacekeeping personnel, with the dignity and honor of bearing the national flag of Ukraine in eleven missions on three continents. It is not a secret that this is often related to the risk to life and health caused by socio-political, climatic, epidemiological characteristics of the countries of the country of residence. The need to resolve these problems has now become an objective reality. I would like to remind you that today the social protection of military personnel is governed by the basic Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families. The statutory system of state social security guarantees is in line with the established legal status of a military officer. Other laws, such as the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, can be extended in legislative cases, guaranteeing their social protection. The issue of social protection for participants in international peacekeeping operations is now partially regulated by article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations and article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Assignment of Ukrainian Armed Forces to Other States. However, the standards of these articles of the Laws do not contain specific social guarantees and are essentially of a pervasive nature. Moreover, the law is governed by the legal, organisational and financial principles of Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations, as well as the order of deployment of military and civilian personnel to Ukraine, the organization of its training and the provision of international peace and security. In view of this, the President of Ukraine is invited to adopt a separate law that will regulate the question of the legal status of peacekeepers and their social protection, both when carrying out their duties as a peacekeeping contingent or peacekeeping personnel and after their return to Ukraine. Thus, it is proposed that peacemakers be extended to cover their responsibilities, with appropriate contingents, in order to expand the system of monetary rewards and credit accounting for seniority and employment. Since the definition of guarantees is now established by separate decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by other legal acts, the bill itself allows such guarantees to become rules of direct action. Following the return of peacekeepers to Ukraine, the bill is intended to focus on ensuring that their constitutional rights to work, education, health care, and medical care are improved. Peacekeepers will have the right to use a defined range of health services in appropriate health facilities. Today, a military official who performed peacekeeping tasks and became a military veteran, that is, less than 25 years of service, has no such right. Use of annual leave at a convenient time, getting extra leave without saving wages for up to 14 calendar days a year, etc. By the International Day of Peacekeepers, May 29, it is proposed that annual payments be made to participants in international peacemaking operations of single money assistance. Dear national MPs, the status of peacemaker is a separate status of Ukrainian citizens who carry out the task of a state with a defined amount of social security for them. Peacemakers are in no way like war veterans under this law. Our belief that the adoption of the bill proposed by the President of Ukraine will contribute to the proper socialization of the State’s peacekeeping obligations will have a major impact on the motivation of Ukrainian citizens to do so. The bill was discussed at meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National Security and Defence Committees and European Integration Committees made positive decisions. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to consider a bill with some comments on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u154	Thank you, Valentina Andriyevna. Have a seat, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov is head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u155	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The committee considered the bill and, in determining its position, came out of the following. A new category of citizens, members of international peacekeeping operations, has emerged in the country. There are different positions. Some say that they should be covered by laws that define social guarantees for wartime participants. The war against this is denied. I think they have both legal and moral grounds for it. Others say let's extend to them the standards that apply to internationalist soldiers. I was at an internationalist conference. And they also deny it. And I think they have, I repeat, both moral and legal rights. That's why. But that kind of category of people is, it's doing pretty responsible functions. We can treat them differently. And we may have different attitudes toward certain types of activity, but such a law is, in our view, necessary. One second. There is a proposal to complement, for example, the Act on Ukraine’s participation in international peacekeeping operations with certain articles. But then the question arises that we will also need to supplement the law on the deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states. From the point of view of legal practice, it would probably be far more faithful to create a separate law. Such a law was created, and the President laid it down. But when we look at this project submitted by the President, we have come to the conclusion that it is very imperfect and requires serious work. In particular, it is not a matter of risk that peacemakers receive a monetary reward that is several times higher than the salaries of our military. And you can't take that into account. And it may be necessary to focus on protecting the rights of those military personnel who lost their lives, their families, who lost their health. Next. The different conditions of the peacekeepers are not taken into account. And one thing, let's say, is in Lebanon, where mines are showing up, the other thing is in Georgia. And many such inadequacies can be identified. Since there is no time, I don’t count them, although I could talk about it for five more minutes. So our committee came to that conclusion. To recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt the law as a basis, to use the position of the draft law of our colleague Nadragha, and to create a good and just law. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u156	Thank you. Have a seat, please. About nine minutes for discussion. Slippery. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u157	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I would like to hear an open answer today, why do we only accept this law today because so many of our sons have died in these peacekeeping operations, and why does this law take effect only since January 1, 2005? What does it take to produce badges and emblems? The Afghans and the Chernobylites were already certified, and today these people were thrown off the ledge along with their certificates. They will also be expelled from the peacekeeping operation in Iraq. This is a black, disgraceful story in the history of our nation. Today, the new world’s masters have begun a war against the disobedient. Our Ukrainian boys, led to despair by the regime, are forced to sell their unique young life to support their families. Dear mothers, all who hear me, whose children have been sent to participate in the shameful and dirty war in Iraq, let us remember that the antinational Qutshmian bankrupt regime has done so. Your sons were voted to be sold by the Yushchenka Peacekeeper faction, zealously serving the United States, hoping that America would choose him as President. For this reason, they turned into ugly puppets. The Mothers of the Dead in Iraq — Children! Your kids went to make money for a wedding, for an apartment, and they found death there? Where is the honor and conscience of those who voted in favour of sending our children to Iraq? How do they view mothers who have lost their sons? Perhaps only their children have the right to a decent life! How do you, Mr. Secretary of Defense, look into your eyes after a bold lie that our armies will only be in Kuwait? We Communists demand that our troops be immediately removed from Iraq to protect those who work in Iraq who are under arrest. In support of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka's initiative, today, women workers gathered at the Mayan Independence and under the walls of the Supreme Council, "For the Future of the Children of Ukraine," which calls on all mothers to join the action "Return our children from Iraq!" We will not allow ourselves to be allowed to live peacefully by those who have sent our children to a bloody slaughter. Let's protect our children! Protect Ukraine from possible terrorist acts! The female workers and we Communists demand for lies, for lost young lives, for the tears of mothers, for the fatherhood of the defence minister to resign immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Bondarenko, don't tear your voice down. I feel sorry for you. Please, since the next bill has a direct bearing on the same problem, let's give the floor now, listen to the author of the Nadrag bill, and then continue to discuss the two bills, because they are identical. Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nadraga, report to 5088 on amendments to some Ukrainian laws. [[on the social protection of war veterans, participants in combat and peacekeeping tasks]] And then we'll continue the discussion, these are two equal bills, they're alternative. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! To date, our peacekeepers in the area of social protection have taken advantage of the subject of laws. It is a law on the status of war veterans and the guarantee of hi social protection, and two special laws are a law on Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations and on the manner in which an armed force unit is sent to other States. I mean, I have no doubt that the previous bill will be positive, but in fact, the main idea of my bill is to make separate legislation and remove this category from all other laws, because the bill that was proposed before that still leaves part of the peacekeepers in the Great Fatherland War Veterans Act and guarantees their protection. Next thought. My proposal is only one thing: to put peacekeeping operations into a purely military budget because the legislation in force and the proposed bill assumes that peacekeepers will be treated again. and receive social protection from other categories. Therefore, I propose a bill where it will be understood how much each peacekeeping operation costs and, accordingly, States will determine whether they are able to send people there, in what amount and with what social guarantees. Plus, all the proposals in my bill are as follows: benefits such as benefits have been removed. Buying tickets off-line. It was all in real financial compensation to a person for protecting him, at risk of health, if not State interest, and for presenting him with dignity in peacekeeping operations. The next moment, the same is true of God, do not give death or injury. [[Disability]] The rules that are in force today are based on our border guards. Accordingly, payment standards are much higher than they are today. And we have tried, when drafting my bill, I repeat, to write in accordance with world practice and today's approaches: if the State of Ukraine considers it necessary to send its people anywhere, they must first clearly understand what they will get for their work; and secondly, the State must understand clearly how much these operations are costing. Everything else is an attempt to solve, including the problems of peacekeepers, by those who do not fall under it, and by the civilian sectors, whether it concerns social protection or health care, and everything else. I therefore propose my bill on the basis of logic: it must be separate, independent, clear and understandable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u160	Thank you. We continue to discuss both bills. Instead of Baraniv, the word is Bulba. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u161	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I want to start by reminding you of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma's words on January 15, 2000, in an interview with the Sunday Mirror. Leonid Kuchma said, "I don't want to insult the warlords, but let's look at the numbers. From six to seven million people, every other, the President said, had died. So there's three and a half left in 1945. To date, we have five million 300,000 veterans of war." And Kuchma is surprised. And it continues to explain the reason for this inadequacy: "There have been different decisions that people consider to be war veterans. And so on and so forth, is that from a great mind? - asks the president. - It's from a lot of populism. - He explains." And then, "There are three and a half million more Chernobylites, a huge number of retirees with benefits. Who's gonna work? Who will fill the budget?" - Kuchma asked right after the 1999 election. And now he's offering another option. He suggests that more faithful war veterans should consider those who have left on their own terms to make money. It's bad enough that our military has to go somewhere to shoot someone there and so forth to make money. But it would be bony to compare them to war veterans. And that's why I'm behind this law, but finally let's do it in a way that doesn't make an impression on the memory of those who really fought for our country. Let's not abuse these people, they didn't do it for money. And so I support our committee's position -- we need to make these two bills one of them so that people understand us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u162	Yes, Your Honor, Karmazin will now perform. I'd like to consult. All right, please, Carmazin. Let's continue the discussion after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u163	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! At this point in the street of the Forest of Ukraine, 25 Ukrainian citizens, whose children had been trained in the name of Boden, had blocked the road, protesting against the illegal actions of the guarantor of the Constitution and the Ministry of Defense at the time of the closure of the fly and the expulsion of boys into the street. I understand we're showing and spending state money as criminals to make presidents, but how to make criminals later because people don't get the right education and what we have 220,000 people behind bars doesn't want to think about it. That is why I appeal to those who are doing so today for the sake of this law. Let us take a close look at him. 27 people died and 66 were injured during what is called peacekeeping operations. At the same time, no tanks were purchased. Ten tanks got the Armed Forces and gave them back because the government didn't find the money to settle. That's why they didn't come today. The government didn't come to the report. And we all keep our mouths shut and say, "Come on, put out some new money." Let's set out, but what's the idea? So I'd like to see why it's not proposed that all the participants in peace operations, and it's not since 1999, when the Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peace Operations started, and since 1992 we've started sending people there. I repeat, and all of these people need to have the law distributed. Once again, we make such a town law only for individuals. The law is totally out of order. It is also not appropriate that compensation is not provided for those peacekeepers who have been injured or have been sick during peacekeeping operations. First of all, by legislative determination of the terms of the insurance, you have to define this clearly and show it, which is why. If at the expense of the United Nations, let us store these funds. If by the state budget, then let's determine whose national interests are being protected in Iraq today, whether they were being protected in those countries where they were headed: Angola, Afghanistan, Guatemala, Ethiopia, Retreia, Kosovo, Liberia, Lebanon, Sierra Leone, Tajikistan. Whose National Interests? So, dear friends, I would like, on the basis of these two laws, to make one law and vote in favour of the law of Draga in the first reading. [[I prefer Basil Darling's approach to these issues.]] And the words of the President and his initiative here after the performance in the Voice of Ukraine was quoted, I'm just counting that it's insolent cynicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-22-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues! After the break, Tomenko will receive the word from both the Anastasia committee and we will be determined. There's a break until 4:00.
