ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:15]] A total of 433 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Hmelnicky Vasil Ivanovich. Let's welcome him on his birthday, we wish him all kinds of good times. [[Applause]] In harmony with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, repeats the request in violation of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the State Executive Service of the Novoazowsky District Office of Justice of the Court of Justice. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the violation of the rights of the captain of the Ukrainian internal forces, the disabled of the Third Group of Yakoubenka's war on housing benefits. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction and implementation of the first launch complex of the High Town High School of the Zitomir Region. Mr Mikli KUKARCHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the name of the Rivena Regional Music and Dramatic Theatre of the words “the name of Mikola Islandy”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the bureaucratic approach of the district, city and district leaders of the Kirovograd region in the decision-making of the connection of the building to the gas pipeline. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unlawful free removal to the villages of a collective agricultural enterprise called Ivanenka, the village of Petrovci, in the region of the region of Poltava, of previously decomposed lands. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to requests for a socio-economic crisis in Dobromili Lvivské region. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of a sewage collector in the city of Piratín Poltava. Oleg PANASOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the situation in the state-owned company “Shit 2 – Devil” of Gorlovka, Donetské region. Mr. Oleg GUMENUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient funding from the government budget of Ukraine for construction projects in the Ternopil region. Jurya FOYKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on lowering the price of bread for socially vulnerable people. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Lypna district hospital in the province of Lyubar. Mr. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to close the building of the Lukow Public Education School in the province of Zakarpat. Paul MATIJENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the listing of population items that may be deprived of the status of radioactive pollution zones in connection with the submission by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of Bill No. 5724. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on improving the condition of road bridges in the Ivano-Frankow region. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the rights of children and parents caused by the groundless closure of schools in the city of Alexandria in Kirovograd. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the betrayal of Ukraine's national interests by the President of Ukraine, expressed in secret intentions of withdrawing Ukraine's Navy from Sevastopol and transferring them to Donuzlav, who had been declared unfit in the Soviet Union since the time of the Soviet Union. Oleg PANASOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conduct of demercurization work in the metal-market area of the Open Shareholder Society “The Mikitov Mercury Combine”. Jury CARMAZINA and Alexia KOZACZANKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine of the “Progression of the establishment of protection zones around objects designated for hydrometeorological observations and other types of hydrometeorological activities and their use” approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 11 December 1999 No.2262. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of Ukraine's national interests in the creation of a vertically integrated National Action Campaign on Oil Ukraine. MICHELLE TOMMEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the state of payments promised by the Government of Ukraine and the National Olympic Committee, for awards to Ukrainian athletes who won medals at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Head, on the adoption of measures to halt the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the distraction of law enforcement officials from performing their own functions and tasks, which results in the illegal embezzlement of budgetary resources on a particularly large scale. Vadima GOUROV to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the use of measures to combat the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Krivi Rig. Larissa POLACO to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the answer to the request. Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine for the violation of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens, and the abuse of office duties by employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the city of Kiev, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Pechersky district, and the city of Kiev. JANUARY to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper response of the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the request for re-investigation of rape and murder. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the lack of response to the statement regarding the need to commit a criminal case for the unlawful use of force and for the unlawful disqualification of the will of the Ukrainian national deputy on August 6, 2004, during the mass arrest and beating by the police of Suma students who carried out a peaceful journey to Kiev. Viacheslava ANISIMOVA and Viktor BORSCHEVSKI to the Attorney - General of Ukraine for the purpose of providing the people’s deputies with knowingly false information about the verification of the wrong actions of the Dniprodjnian city’s head. Stanislav PCHIDENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of the citizen of Masnej D.A. and the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of Volinsk Region, when the circumstances of the mysterious death of her husband, the Major of the militia, took place in the office of the Kovel City Police Department. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the application of measures to protect the rights of military personnel. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of persons involved in mass violations of the constitutional rights of citizens during the peaceful march of students of Sumi Kyiv. [[JUSCHEN, CATHERINCHUK, YELLOW, AND OTHERS Total 8 deputies]] Mr. Andria SKILLY to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the course of the investigation and prosecution of a traffic accident in the village of Čiška, Mosticki district, Lviv region. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the investigators of the Zamostian District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the city of Vinnice. Ms. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal conduct of persons in the public authorities and the prosecutor’s office of the city of Mariupol. PAUL MUTCHANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the illegal seizure of the Church of the Mother of God in the village of Marjanovka, Zaporozhye District, by the ministers of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the question of unlawful possession of a certificate of the right to own property in the village of Žuravlin, the district of Vasilkov, the Dnipropetrov region. Larissa POLAKOVA to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the delay in resolving the issue of the exchange of immovable military property for housing for homeless members of the Dnipropetrovsk garrison. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the legitimate inclusion of the State-owned enterprise “Rwenkinantracite” in the state-owned enterprise “Lugansk Coal Company”. Group of National Deputies to the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations for the execution of Political Orders by the Department of Emergency Situations in the Zakartat region. [[BURNIK, TOMENKO, BOYKO]] Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the execution of the court’s decision to pay the salaries of employees of the Cremencucci plant of silicate bricks. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Kiev City Head about the shootings in Kiev of the Kosior Monuments and the Petrovic organizers of the Holodomor 1932-1933. in Ukraine. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the Return of the Voddarska Street Hostel in Kirovograd of Family Status with the Right to Privatization. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Head of the High Council of Justice for bringing the judges of the Provincial District Court of Kharkiv to justice for violating their oath. As well as Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the monument, the history of the liberation soldiers during the Great Nativity War in the city of Turupin in the Herson region. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kluwa, Head of the Herson District State Administration of Dougan on the preparations for the 2004-2005 heating season of Kudri Housing in the village of Kalanczak in the Hersson region. Valentin ZUBOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, on the attempt on the life of Ukraine’s national deputy. As well as Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unlawful involvement of senior officials of the State in the anti-dumping defamation of imports into Ukraine of the DSPs laminated by the Republic of Poland and the Slovak Republic. As well as Mikoli MELNIKA to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the reasons for the refusal of the Pension Fund of the Tomaspil region of the Province of Winnitsk in the calculation of the pension for the citizen of Dalischuk. Mr Tomenka to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the violation by the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Primorski region of the Zaporozhye Region of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation on the provision of unhindered media activities in 2004. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Head of the Ukrainian State Postal Service “Krupposta” regarding the return of the debt from the payment of assistance to low-income employees of the Killia District of Odessa. Thus, honourable colleagues, requests made, fifty of them, factions "Our Ukraine" - 19, faction of Communists - 12, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, breast "Democratic Initiatives - People's Rule" - 3, "True Ukraine" - 3, People's Agrarian - 1, Socialist Party - 2, Block Timoshenko - 6, group "Soyuz" - 1, non-fractional - 1. Dear colleagues! Five factions: the faction of Block Timoshenko, the faction of the Socialist Party, Our Ukraine, insist on a 30-minute recess to consult the factions, as well as the factions of the People's Agrarian Party, the People's Democratic Party, the Industrialists and entrepreneurs also insist on a break. So maybe according to established traditions, make statements about what you want to take a break and we'll work. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich is ready. Please, Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich. I'm asking you to prepare for the faction of the Block of Timoshenko, the Socialist Party, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u2	Thank you. A statement by the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. In a statement issued at the Supreme Council session on June 18 we have already pointed to methods that are unacceptable to democratic society, which, in terms of our party, were used by certain political forces and individual officials from power. This was particularly evident in political and administrative pressures, breaches by the authorities of their obligations, harassment of people who associated their fate with our party and their expectations. In this regard, we had every reason to count on the appropriate response of partners from the parliamentary majority and the government coalition. We thought that the People's Agrarian Party, which had been so taken up, had carelessly and unrelentingly attacked another self-proclaimed defender of the Ukrainian village, would hear and understand at least those political structures that, if they were not our fellow Members, would at least be partners in joint agreements on cooperation and coordination between Parliament and the government. After all, from the very beginning, the Party’s agrarians have consistently and fully carried out their coalition obligations, often yielding even their own interests. Yet, there is no response to this day. On the contrary, the company has now gained not only wider scales but rather more blunt, cynical forms. It's all about getting your hands out, getting fired, or making promises of all kinds of good things to the leaders of our regional organizations, grassroots centers, farm leaders, private parties, who are thus accosted for mass transition to other political structures. In this situation, not only is our concern for the efficiency and further fate of our party governed us, but it is strong and self - sufficient. We are concerned and concerned about the obvious fact that malicious intrigues against the national agrarian party of Ukraine, the oppression of citizens who share its program and views. This is a demonstration of the denial of the right of people to freedom of political and party choice, the confidence of organizers and performers of such games in certain impunity, based on unwavering faith in the power of money and administrative resources. We are convinced that winning such approaches would be detrimental to Ukraine today and in the future for its good name and international authority. Therefore, despite the various forces against our party, we will oppose the practice of intolerance, disregarding civilized norms and rules in the state and society as a relapse of long- and finally condemned totalitarian approaches. That is our principle position, and we will stand by it consistently, consistently, and persistently. Therefore, in the absence of concerted and constructive action in the middle of the parliamentary majority, which significantly limits the faction's ability to influence the adoption and implementation of political decisions within the parliamentary-government coalition, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party of Ukraine has made a decision: to consider itself free from coalition obligations and to suspend its membership in the majority. The faction of the agrarian party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u3	Yes. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I would like to inform you that our colleague in charge of the Committee on Education and Science, Stanislaw Nikolayenka, has suffered a tragic tragedy in the family, and a 23-year-old son has died tragically. I understand that this is a tragedy for our entire team. So I ask you to honor me with a moment of silence. Please sit down. On behalf of the three factions that called for a break, who will act? [[Timoshenko Block, Socialist Party Block and Our Ukraine faction]] Then identify yourself, please, because John Sidorovich Boki says he will perform. That's the way to decide, I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u4	Honourable National MPs, statement of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, the faction of the Socialist Party and the faction of our Ukraine. The attack on education in Ukraine. All democratic advanced countries are building a knowledge society. Ukraine declared that it was on its way. Regrettably, the executive branch acts contrary to this strategic principle. The active actions of teachers of the fifth school of Alexandria, who have been starving since August 3 to protest the liquidation of a number of secondary schools, high schools, even kindergartens, the hunger campaign of teachers of the Alexandrian Women’s High School, and the larger campaign of activists of the Free Education and Science Federation from Alexandria to Kiev to support the demands of hungry schoolchildren, which began on September 7th, forced officials from the education of Kirovgradska to take harsh administrative action. It shut down these educational institutions and thus grossly violated the constitutional right of citizens to education. On September 8, the head of the city’s education administration, Kirovgrad Kostenko, and the head of the education department of the Kirovograd district of Prilipko, gathered the heads of educational institutions to meet at which teachers were asked to leave the free professions of education and scientists. They ignored teachers, parents, and children who refused to leave the University of Alexandria and move to other crowded schools. Thus, teachers continue to teach their children in the courtyard of the school. The law department of Alexandria gathered hardworking parents and invited them to the prosecutor's office and started questioning them, threatening them, threatening them, forcing their parents to give up their classes in the 5th grade. On September 9, in the morning, in the presence of police officers, the head of the city’s education department demanded that the school’s yard be abandoned. We demand an immediate cessation of lawlessness in the schools of Alexandria. Immediately listen to information from the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Please ask the Head of the Supreme Council to take all necessary measures to guarantee the right of citizens to education of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u5	Yes, dear fellows, we are now on our way to the performances. Calm down! Sign up or identify who will speak. I can't be like this. Please, Seminoga, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Seminoga, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Seminoga, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Where's Seminoga? Tarasjuk, please. None. Tomich Ivan Fedorovich, please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u6	Ivan Tomic, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please give a voice to my colleague, Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u7	Mikli Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u8	A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" about attempts to privatize VAT "Ukranafta". On Friday, September 3, 2004, the UK government distributed information on the decision of the company’s main shareholders to increase the company’s statutory capital by 132 times to 1.8 billion dollars. This issue should be addressed in the WAT shareholders' meetings on September 15, 2004. The increase in the statutory fund is being initiated in accordance with the orders of President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine to transfer government particles of Ukratnafta and Galicina to the statutory fund of VAT "Ukranafta" in order to create a vertically integrated oil company. At the same time, the State’s share of the statutory fund should be maintained at a level not less than 50 plus 1 percent of the shares. Experts believe that this is a positive step towards turning VAT into a vertically integrated company and creating an additional value for the company and the state as a major shareholder in the future. But there is a high risk that such a positive step can lead to significant losses for the state and small shareholders of large international investment funds, as well as some 30,000 individuals who have received shares in certificates in the process of privatization. The faction "Our Ukraine" believes that there is no real mechanism for transferring to the statutory fund "Ukranafta" government packages, as stipulated by the President's decree. As a result, the state can't make short deadlines -- until October 18th -- to bring in packets of oil refineries that won't allow it to maintain control of the WAT "Ukranafta" -- 50 plus 1 percent shares. What is required by the President's decree, and can lead to a dissipation of the state's fate to 0.35 percent. Another threat the faction "Our Ukraine" draws attention to is that the execution of an additional issue of a financially sound company at a price much lower than that of a market is completely contrary to world practice and will result in the destruction of the value of VAT "Ukranafta", the only truly liquid, recognized by the world financial community of shares in the Ukraine market. In this case, there's a 25-pound issue, which is 280 times different from the market price, 70 dollars per share. For the state, the loss of its share may cost more than $300 million. As a result of the decline in the market value of the company from USD 720 million to the release of only $350 million as a result. In addition to the state, significant losses will be caused to international investors. This will have a significant impact on the country's investment image, and it can also damage the successful deployment of NAC Naftogaz-Ukraine, the main shareholder of Ukrafti. In addition, there are now some 30,000 individuals left to share. The faction of "Our Ukraine" is coming together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u9	Thank you. Anatoly Frost, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Swanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I was forced to speak out of this rostrum by my electorate from the city of Tokmak Zaporezki district, and more specifically, by the employees of the Southendizelmash factory, such a unique enterprise, the only one in Ukraine, which I have repeatedly talked about from this high rostrum, which I have repeatedly addressed to the highest authorities, all the way to the President. But despite all of this, the President's Administration has written down Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic three times. And, as they say, it's now there. So it was at the end of August that a rally took place at this company, and I was also invited as a deputy, where another colleague of mine was present today in this room, where people forced me to turn from this platform to Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. They say: "Dear Mr. Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich! We're talking to you because the situation in the middle of the VAT factory of Tokmak Zaporin Region requires your direct intervention. The criminal activity of business managers, the irresponsibility and lack of control by irresponsible government authorities and the obligation to control them, the use of state property in the interests of workers, whose part of VAT is about 70 percent, resulted in our strategically important enterprise being in a deep crisis with possible recognition of it as bankruptcy in the near future. Since the Supreme Court’s 2000 bankruptcy case, VAT has already been managed by Senator Jadun Anatoly Mikolaiovich, but as its predecessors have proved to be incompetent and unable to carry out their commitments. ” This is a big text, so I'm not going to read it all, and I'm just going to stop because our employees are demanding this company from the government and the state. First. To appeal to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine about the investigation of circumstances and the establishment of a credit, illegal loan agreement of the Southdendieselmash with Privatbank with a violation of its own law and legislation. The other one. To entrust the State Property Fund and the Bankruptcy Agency with the appointment of a high - professional director to meet the responsibilities assigned to it. To be entrusted to the State Tax Administration. the authority to establish strict control over the arrival and use of VAT funds to prevent them from being misused. And lastly, I would like to say, and by addressing those who address the Prime Minister, I want to say, "Dear my constituents! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'll say this is a question that can be settled. Read the Presidential candidate Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich's program and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u11	Yes, Valery Lebedowski, please, the faction of our Ukraine. None. Is it? Where's Valérie Lebedowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Peter Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to take it easy on everyone and take it easy on the chairman. You can't give yourself a word for another person. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u14	Thank you. Please give the floor to National Deputy Novak Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u15	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. Prepare Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u16	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! On this Sunday, we passed a number of laws that we believe should improve the social status of the poorest population, including the Law on the Prohibition of the Forced Eviction of the Most Unprotected Liquors from Living Rooms and the Food Banks Act and others. But today we Communists are forced to seriously warn the people of Ukraine of another danger. We, the Communist faction in the Supreme Council, our leader, the candidate for the Ukrainian presidents, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, have repeatedly warned the people of Ukraine about the dangerous manipulation of power with statistics on the number of grains collected. This was the case last year, when about 30 percent of the announced crops were allocated, and a large portion of the grain was sold abroad to provide the bread that many today find, unfortunately, not only the main food, but the only food available, had to buy the grain in three roads abroad. The perpetrators of such acts were, to say the least, unstated, as you know. On the contrary, the authorities distributed, stressed, distributed, and not rewarded the deserved, government rewards and work were simply closed. Unfortunately, this is happening again this year. We've all returned, we've all met with peasants, we've not been gathered in the fields to this day, but the authorities are forcing us to report that everything has been gathered. How wild that does not sound, but fertility today is determined, not in the field, but in the executive’s offices. Simply speaking, peasants are forced to ascribe grain, and, do not prove to God how they say the figure is defective. It is remarkable that none of those who have made State reports have been punished in any way in the last few years. It turns out that this lie, this deception of the people, is blessed by today’s authorities, who so desire to betray what is desired for what is real. Of course, if there are no real results, they have to be invented. The looting of peasants continues by declaring the price of 800 bracelets for one ton of bread. Today, they buy 350-400 greaves a ton of grain. The peasant's labor, his work is greatly undervalued. Once again, those who have never sweated in the field will earn a great deal of money on his hard work. All of this is accompanied by a word of fornication about caring for a peasant. A large - scale lie has become the cornerstone of a policy of active power. Of course, in an environment where we don't adopt laws designed to improve the lives of our people, they won't act, they'll turn to basic ossification and lies. It'll be fair authority, it'll be bread and it'll be bread. People, please think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u17	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhović.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u19	Vladimir Puzakov, prepare Yuri the Sparrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u20	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I must defend him as a champion of the people. But advise me, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to whom we can seek protection, for neither the court nor the executive authorities are acting. Some chimers rule the state. An honest, talented person is either thrown out or killed. I have a request for power. If you are unable to manage, get out of the arena in a beautiful and quiet manner, and do not wait for presidential elections, not even dreaming of taking the lead. And not just the President or the Prime Minister, but all of them. And I am speaking again from this rostrum of banditry and lawlessness, which is taking place throughout the Kirovograd region in this case in the New Ukraine region, according to the plan of the Balan administration's headship, with active support from the region's forces and the area, regarding the former head of Kap "Niva" Ogir Vladimir Ivanovich. His farming is one of the best not only in Kirovgrad, but also in Ukraine. What was equipped with the new technology that was being replenished every year was a stable salary and the social sphere of the city was entirely on the level of SPC. He didn't steal himself, and he wouldn't let the new masters, and that wasn't what the modern Balan people liked, and they kept terror and they kept working on it. The culmination was the planned colporteur assembly on May 25th, which did not take place, where the gang method illegally liberated Ogir from the head of the KSP with the support of law enforcement officials and deputy district attorney Nagorny, who were present in the hall. And what, do you think, is a criminal case against bullying, banditry, lawlessness? You are. A criminal case was committed against Ogyr, for it was decided that both he and the congregations had broken up and fought. These and other falsified answers came to the Attorney General’s Office of the District Attorney’s Office and where to turn to prove the truth. Besides, what kind of power is that? How Long Can You Destroy Your People? How many lies can you lie to? But we have experienced that we fear even the day we walk the street, and only today did the President and the Prime Minister see that the country will not end in chaos and good. Why do you, the President and the Prime Minister, give this gang prizes and raise your rank, and in the election race, you swear on the loyalty of the people by putting your hand to the heart? Use it better for you to know what it is. And again, I'm going to the Attorney General's Office. Carry out a thorough investigation of the case and give the truth an assessment of the actions of the district and district council. And I'd like you to include the application to the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u21	Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u22	Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians. Yesterday a group of deputies from the faction "Our Ukraine" stopped the Fascist Sabbath. A UNA-UNSO group led by Eduard, a UNA group led by Edward Kovalenko, wanted to organize a torch campaign under the fascist slogans in support of Victor Yushchenk. We Ukrainian deputies arrived there, and with the megaphones, we encouraged the simple boys we were trying to get involved in the action for money. They were students of Kisi, KPI, a number of Kiev technicums. Not only did they bring torches, they brought 20 canisters of gasoline and xenophobic slogans that were made in them. However, all of this was abandoned and removed from them. I'm asking the Attorney General's Office to file a case for the instigation of national hostility. Why did this happen? Why was there an inactive militia? We saw that all the Presidential television channels were present. There was a massive provocation that seemed to be supported by Victor Yushchenka by a torched Fascist invasion. We stopped it. But we realize that the customer is on Bank Street. It was there that they let the information be distorted on the first television channel. I'm asking you to file a criminal case for fraud by the U.T.-1 public defender of Ukraine. Please consider this my official parliamentary request, which I am sending both to the Attorney General's Office and to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which was completely passive and only in the end did it come when they found that the provocation failed because we, the people's deputies, had a positive impact on this process. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm the representative of Victor Yushchenk's block. We address you, Ukraine has great value, international peace and peace. Keep them safe! Don't trust the provocateurs who spend their last days in the Presidential Administration. Unite around decent slogans and a worthy presidential candidate. Fascism and their oligarchs will not pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u23	Yes. People's MP Loboda, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u24	May I have the floor to Sergey Bondarchuku?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u25	The word is passed on to Bondarchuku. Please. Prepare Vadim Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the Centre's parliamentary group, authorized to report on the following, that the members of the Centre group claim their withdrawal from the standing parliamentary majority in the Supreme Council. Personal statements by national MPs are transmitted to the coordinator of a standing parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u27	What? What? Vadim Gurov, please. Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives of the People's Government. There's no Vadim Gurov. Ivan Gerasimov. Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov, Communist faction. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u28	Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u29	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u30	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. On behalf of the elector of Ivano-Frankiv Eugen Tchaikovsky, I am addressing Victor Yushchenk, Head of the "Our Ukraine" Block. What the electorate asks: "Please give Mr. Yushchenka my pipe, otherwise it's his. They won't let her see him. Let him know that not all Western boys are stoned by the bourgeois lies behind which is the wolf's morale, which is now taken to arms by the ruling thieves." And he still assures me that he's from his great-grandfather, a true nationalist. He complains about the local party and state leaders: Mikola Kritza, the mayor of Shkutka, his deputy Alexander Sic, the head of the district headquarters of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Schlimk, who promised this nationalist to help carry out his tasks, but in fact, as he checked and cited in this letter, they did nothing to enable him to carry out his beliefs. And he says about Yashchenka: "He impresses me, so cute, and he knows how to behave, and more, it's nice to speak. But when he comes to power, he won't be able to pursue politics in the interests of the people, because "friends" won't, they have their ambitious blood interests. [[in quotes]] Is that why he seeks the support of the Americans? But this does not mean that our tragedy is repeated. 60 years ago, some of the bandits were hoping for the support of the Germans. But when the Germans conquered Ukraine, they shot the bandits as their potential enemies." The signature is Eugene Tchaikovsky, the address is. So I'm willing to publicly convey to the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" bloc a letter from this electorate. And the people of all Ukraine must conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, calm down! In the end, you're all going to get the right to a replica. Well, you'll get it, I'm asking you, well, you'll get it. Well, you'll get, please, in the end you'll get, I beg you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Olinick, take the word, the line, take it. Peter Olivenic, microphone, please. Don't shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm primarily talking to the Communist faction. Today we have one regime of bandits in power, and we need to unite our efforts to overcome the regime. And individual people are in your faction of provokers. I urge you today to consolidate your efforts to win the regime, and I would like to point out, honourable Communists, that yesterday our faction of Victor Yuschenk's bloc "Our Ukraine" with the Yulia block of Timoshenko stopped the fascist Sabbath. The Supreme Council had a warning -- they didn't respond. The inaction of law enforcement agencies. For the first time since World War II, the authorities have practically legitimized the Fascist route in Ukraine. And we must stop together because we will be accountable to the history and veterans of the Great Homeland War who died for the independence of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u33	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. Prepare the Police.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u34	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm addressing you personally about the eviction of the Civil Service Officer, former employee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the former painter's employee of the Office of the CC Company of Ukraine, evicting her from the dormitory. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know you have a lot to do, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that even the judicial authorities today refer to the fact that, in accordance with the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30 August 1991 prohibiting the activities of the Ukrainian Company, the CPD. State property. The management, management and ownership of the CC of the Ukrainian Company, which has moved to the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is not a successor. Even what a person has worked in the management of the CC Company of Ukraine is, you see, very much. They say that this man's crime is a simple painter. And I would like to draw your attention, Vladimir Mikhailovich, even in spite of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that annulled the illegal decision on the ban on the Ukrainian Company and today the authorities of the Ukrainian Company and the people who are being persecuted. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, speaking to you again, I understand that you are a very busy person, but please find 20-30 minutes of time to solve a particular matter of a simple person. In the Supreme Council, people are not simple, even though they say they protect the interests of the common people. That's why I ask you to consider my statement as a requisition to you as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for us to still have justice and not to be persecuted by the fact that she worked even in the CDC Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u35	You tell everyone that you're giving your word. Please, Polito's microphone, because we're going to have a misunderstanding right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u36	Andrei Polit, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u37	Mironenko, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u38	Mironenko, the Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! The most terrible thing for our State and our people is that 99 per cent of the population enjoys injustice. It is also said that even small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are taking part in protests. The policies of the current capitalist authority do not actually satisfy 99 per cent of the population. However, these policies can continue. I spoke on several occasions from this rostrum about the terrible plight of the people of Kerchi, the hero city, who are now in a terrible state. The vast majority of enterprises in the city have either been destroyed or are employed by 25 per cent. From here on out of the city of Kerchi, and so, I've seen it happen all over Ukraine. That is the kind of political orientation that will be maintained, unfortunately, unless the people make the right choice. We are now being promoted by the oligarchs to two of my players, one with Moscow, the other with the United States of America. One will win and pursue policies for the integration of Ukraine with Russia, or for the benefit of his own people, and he has already declared his continuity, i.e. he will continue all the same policies; the other will win, it will be even worse, because not only will this criminal capitalist orientation be maintained, we are now accustomed to saying: Lady Y., we can call Lady T. - oligarch, one can now say that Mr. Y. Mr. Y. will come to power, which means the course will be even worse, because in addition to the capitalist orientation, this criminal, for which it is the oligarchs and oligarchs who are in this great faction that are constantly voting, that they will carry out all the same policies of criminal strangulation of the people, suffocation of the economy in the name of enriching the narrow segment of the people. [[The second is Mr. J.]] Moreover, policies will be implemented for the benefit of the United States of America. Because we know that Mr. Y. and the wife of a U.S. citizen. If you're lying, please deny it. Next. You said you turned off the Dragnibok, boarding a fascist. But why isn't there an official document on this? Oy, you, dear ones, are leading precisely to fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Dear colleagues, please calm down. If necessary, you'll take the word, you'll say you appreciate it. Calm down. To defuse the situation, I am reading an ad, and I would like to ask for the attention that has just been given to me. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the expulsion of the Ukrainian national deputy, Tajnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich, from the membership of the "Our Ukraine" parliamentary faction. The relevant documents are provided. It was given, I'll tell you when, it was given yesterday. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please microphone. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u40	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u41	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u42	The Socialist faction authorized me to say that. On the eve of the fourth anniversary of the murder of journalist George Gongadze, who rocked the whole country, our so-called law enforcement agencies openly block the investigation of this criminal case. From the early days of the disappearance of Georgia Gongadze, the Socialist Party, and our leader, Alexander Moroz, insisted on direct involvement in the crime of senior officials. President Leonid Kuchma swore publicly that the crime would be revealed, that better forces would be involved in the investigation, that the matter would be dealt with as transparently as possible. What the President's words are worth -- we see now, despite all the evidence available, the authorities are afraid to start a trial because the same better force of the police and the BSS are being shown to be involved in the murder. And regrettably, the official evidence that has been recognized has proved fully involved in the crime of the President of Ukraine himself. There is no transparency in the matter, and on the contrary, the authorities have violated the basic norms of procedural legislation. The whole world is now aware of official recognition by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, reports of interrogations by police officers who carried out, at the order of the highest management, illegal surveillance of George Gongadze. This took place on July 14, this year. These protocols, which may and should be used in court, have yet to trigger any action by our so - called law enforcement officers. Alexander Moroz, leader of the Socialist Party faction, did not count on the rapid response of the authorities since the release of new evidence of Kuchma’s involvement in crime. So a few days after the Office of the Attorney General acknowledged the credibility of the police interrogation protocols, Alexander Moroz turned to the media for guidance of the relevant authorities, requiring an immediate assessment of the George Gongadze case, twice again over the past two months, and repeated his request. and, according to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, they would have long had to give an official response. However, the law was once again violated by law enforcement officials. And no answer has yet been given to Alexander Frost. Almost two months later, the minister of Bilocon took water into his mouth, perhaps even something else, that he was going to drink three days after winning the presidential election. We draw the attention of the Supreme Council to the cynical violation of parliamentary powers. Socialists demand to hear a report from the Interim Investigation Commission on the Georgia Gongadze case and a report from the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs on the course of the investigation. Without considering this issue, the Supreme Council does not have the moral right to represent the interests of the people, nor can it be a consolidating body of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u43	Mikhail Kosov has one minute to reply. Please, the microphone. We're not done yet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u44	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I want to make a somewhat unusual statement. I want to thank our fellow communists Solomonine and Mironka for the speeches they are making here from this rostrum. Recently, I had to travel through those areas of Chernigiv, Kirovograd, Cherkaske, Hmelnitsky, and Žitomir, called the Red Belt. In some areas, 55 percent of voters voted as communists in 2002. Now they won't vote for the Communists anymore. For the speeches of such deputies, which I have called, seem to confirm that the Communists are fighting, not against today's, as they falsely say, a reaction regime, but against Victor Yushchenk's bloc. Therefore, they can only benefit from their performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, please. Let's calm down. Yes, one. Mironenko. Please don't call it a last name. Please don't call it a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u46	5 constituency. Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! Again we hear it all the time, all these years it sounds like a lie. The lie is that when the communists are getting smaller and smaller, I don't call anyone's last names. So, less and less votes because the idea is being discredited. The reason is that the media is owned by the oligarchs, the radio and others, who are in these two, as if they were fighting blocks. But in fact, the main task would ensure that capitalist criminal focus was maintained. And those who are now acting, I think, patriots. It must be embarrassing! You've destroyed the economy! You're destroying the people! Why don't you repent? You must repent. Where's your conscience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Please. Dear colleagues! Please calm down. It's now being announced. Let's confirm how we care about people's social well-being. It's a draft of the War Children's Social Protection Act. From what? No! No! We have a draft Social Protection Act under review. As you have in mind, there are procedures for considering this bill, please. No, it's not. Yeah, no. Please, let's not. Let's work. All of it! Do not abuse patience. The draft Law on the Social Protection of Children of War has been announced for consideration. Reporter Alexander Baranowski, co-rapporteur of the Committee of Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich. The following Rules of Procedure are proposed: for the report and for the answers to questions - five minutes, for the co-report and for the question to the co-rapporteur - five minutes, for the discussion and for the decision-making - 10 minutes. No objections? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear National Deputies! The subject that we are addressing with you is one of the most painful, exciting things in the life of the Ukrainian people. It refers to the fears of war, of children, of those who have disbelieved in poverty, hunger, cold for decades, and who have never paid attention, to the favors, to the sympathy of the people. Regular attention from his own people. I mean, millions of those Ukrainian people who can be called children of war. Ukraine was completely occupied by the fascists, suffered the entire Ukrainian people, but the most difficult had happened to the children, millions of them became orphaned, without any means to exist. Those who have survived have suffered inhuman suffering. The country, as far as it could, was able to cope with that minor grief. After the war, there were a lot of children's homes that obviously couldn't replace the children of orphans with the most expensive people. In the country, it has been proclaimed that none of the participants in the Great Homeland War have been forgotten. As it really was, you can appreciate differently, but I have reason to say that the first ones that turned out to be forgotten were just children of war. Perhaps because they were extremely numerous and wanted to heat them first, to create better conditions for those who had fought and won the victory. One of the Russian writers created, in my opinion, a wonderful psychological film about teenagers who had not experienced either motherly favor or parental guidance because of the war of terror. He called them early in the morning. The film that was called "Puppets" was like inviting everyone to look around, to be more attentive to these people. Now the children of war are retired. In the face of the horrors of war, they are now again in numbers of casualties, since without proper status, with no benefits, millions of them are literally at the brink of despair. The bill provides for the legal status of children of war, thereby defining the basis for their social protection and guaranteeing their social protection through the establishment of benefits and state aid. We offer to give them benefits in full according to this law. As I was working on this bill, I had to go to dozens of meetings with generations of war children. Thousands of people gathered to do so, and a lively discussion was under way. The need for his people to accept him was discussed with tears in their eyes, for it is a just and fair reparation to generations of people who have been cruelly deprived for decades. This is actually the return of a small amount of debt to those who did not laugh in their lives did not add to the young, young years who were deprived of motherly favor, parental warmth, the attention of the Fatherland. I'd like to explain, my dear fellows, that there was a bill on the social protection of children of war and then another, broader one was given to him in exchange. But the authors concluded with the committee that. And that law was lifted. So I would like to draw your attention to the basic law on the social protection of children of war. The bill consists of three chapters. The first chapter contains general positions, definitions of terms, and so forth. The second section lists the benefits of children of war in terms of reducing the total tax income by living minimum, housing subsidies, employment benefits, temporary disability payments of 100 percent of the average wage regardless of their internship. State social guarantees and their size are foreseen to guarantee the level of income of war children not below the minimum of living. I would like, my fellow Members, to draw your attention to the fact that this law is just protecting the poor. Because a person, even having the status of a child of war, but who today has a lot of income, that's over 382 bracelets, that's more of a living minimum set for a working person, is not going to use extra benefits today, that is, he's protecting the poorest. So I would ask the honourable colleagues to support this bill in the first reading, and I would ask you, for a second reading, to submit your proposals, to fill it in more so that it would be meaningful to answer, so to speak, today and really protect this wounded generation of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. Please sign up for the question. Please explain. Five minutes. Carmazine. Get ready for Yankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u50	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, I thank you for having prepared this bill with Rudzkowski, but in my opinion, it is not irreprehensible on the legal side. For example, part of the benefits you offer to those born since 9.05. By 1945, legislation was already in place and there was no need for further regulation. I mean, there's already a colossal. And second. Absolutely everyone in Ukraine deserves the right to the right conditions, and I think they will be used when Yushchenko becomes president, where Ukraine's wife and citizen of Ukraine is Ukraine. [[It is I who answer to those who have burned the name of Yuschenka here.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u51	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to say this to you on your question that legislation is settled for those who have the status of a participant in the Great National War. Those people who don't have status, they're legislation. Nothing's settled for them. This is about people for whom. They don't have the status of a participant in the war, but they were standing next to a machine that, let's say, raised shells that just didn't learn what kind of pain they suffered, which were just injured by taking down mines and shells, that is, that generation of years of war that didn't fall under the status of a participant in the Great Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u52	Yes, Jankowski, please. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u53	Dear reporter! Mikola Jankowski, 48th constituency, Gorlovka First. I want to point out that this is a very necessary law, because the children of war are, in fact, children of war, not participants in war. And so when I study this problem, I'm going to report it later, and I want to support you, and the flaws that are can be corrected in the second reading. Thank you for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u54	Please, Solomon. He's behind him, Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u55	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleague! I would like to suggest to you two trailers that have to do with clarifying some of the formulations, including the names of the Social Protection for War Children Act. We will start comparing and drawing up other children, other wars, and we have the habit of doing so. Don't you think it's more appropriate to define the name of the law on the social protection of the children of the Great Homeland War, in the very name? That's the first one. And a second. The definition of the very concept of "child of war" is a person who was under 18 at the time of the end of the Great Motherland on September 2. I suggest after the word, the person after the coma to add "who was a citizen of the Soviet Union." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the question was before the authors to call "protection of the children of the Great Homeland War," but in the process of drafting the law, when they met people, questions of the following nature began to arise. Three and a half thousand of our Ukrainians died in Afghanistan, and, let's say, the children of those dead parents there today also suffer accordingly. And when we put the children of the Great Homeland War, their social protection, their pensions, and so on, these questions raise free learning to give them the opportunity, once the state sent their parents, and they died, that is, other questions. So we decided to call "protection of children of war" so that maybe in the future there would be a question of supplementing this law, not saying, writing another one. But you, your esteemed colleagues, have been asked to submit your proposals to the second reading and the authors will be processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u57	Please, Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u58	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 constituency, Deaf, Hard Ukraine. Dear reporter, the Hard Ukraine faction supports this bill on the deeper social protection of this category. But I would like to make a note of such a plan. There is social assistance in the law, which you rightly said would be overwhelming, taking into account the material situation, the well - being of the family, or the circumstances of the family. But there are other benefits. Including you, you touch subsidies. I'd like to say that there's social injustice here. It turns out that the person has residential services and will also receive benefits. It is possible that the principle of social justice applies to all the parties involved in this bill in order to provide them with targeted, material assistance, depending on the circumstances that the legislator will prescribe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u59	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich, for supporting this bill. We've talked to you about this, Mikola Petrovich, and I think in preparing the draft for second reading, we'll find ways to solve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u60	Thank you, sit down, please. He will report to the Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u61	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Dear colleagues, I will of course report to the committee on the bill, but I would like to start something else. You and I often swear in this room, assure our voters how much we love them, and how we are prepared to support them. I very much ask, today, to all colleagues, to the leaders of the factions with the request: today there are a number of social issues in order today, this issue that is now included in the agenda, the change in the law on the status of war veterans, the guarantee of social protection. And we're with you in the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine, preparing for the 60th anniversary of Victory. I am very much asking everyone to take an active part in discussing those documents and making appropriate decisions. Now that I've come back to my own problem with this rostrum, I'd like to support the author of this bill to say that we're even a little late for this document. Because it's a generation plagued by war, a generation of the '30s, '40s, which, let's say, directly participated in the Great Homeland War, may not have been involved, but because of their age potential, they were helped, and they were born during the Great Homeland War, and they are already suffering, let's say, on the slope of the years. I would like to say that, as Head of the Committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, the Communist faction, today's presidential candidate, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, did not raise this very acute problem once about its resolution. Regrettably, she did not make up her mind or make a decision, not on the fault of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because I went to the Cabinet of Ministers repeatedly, unfortunately, for a long time, the Cabinet of Ministers did not support this idea. Today we have the support of the Cabinet of Ministers for this bill. So I think it will be fair and tolerant when we take a step with you to meet those people who have also suffered from fascism and adopt that law in the way that it was passed today. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the opportunity to expand a little bit, let's say the level of social protection of this category, we'll move on. And today, I call on everyone, regardless of party, factional affiliation, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see that none of the national MPs present object to the adoption of this bill? Is there no objection? There's a denial, isn't there? Okay. Please fill out the list. Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. List of speakers, please. Nine minutes to make a statement and a minute to make a decision. Please, Puzakov. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u63	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This law was long awaited in our country, especially those whose childhood was not childlike, since it coincided with the years of the Great Homeland War. As children during the years of war and war, this category of people suffered a great deal of distress and distress. After all, constant malnutrition during the years of war, stress in families did not pass away from the child’s soul. Almost every other family lost their father. So you can imagine how these children were living. Children of that time had not grown up in years. They were self-educated, mastered the profession at an early age. There were some 13 million wartime children in the country. Today they are our famous pensioners, whom the state has left alone with its woes, its diseases, its meager retirement. They don't use social security, they don't use the benefits, they don't use the government, they're being poisoned and they're being robbed. They are not given the constitutional right to a sufficient standard of living and social protection. The State must be morally accountable to them. She is eternally indebted to such people. It must be reflected in the law’s introduction of benefits and state social assistance to the extent that it provides a minimum of living. Not in words, but in reality, 100 percent of the average wage should be paid for work and not for temporary loss of employment. The second part of the bill refers to the primary removal of land for individual construction. The question arises, Which one has the health and the resources to do the construction work. It would be better to think about how to make the housing line move forward and so that these people can get housing. Most of them have been on the line since the '80s. I'd like to raise a question about the provision in every place of a pensioner's pay bus that goes to the area and has a series of inconvenientities and insults. They turn to the local authorities, but they certainly turn away from them. I ask you to take my proposals into account in this bill, which will allow the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to a sufficient standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Dried to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! We need to be prepared to increase the number of drafts aimed at strengthening the social protection of our citizens, achieving a positive image of the patron of the people before the presidential elections. Two committees, honorary colleagues Harry and Zybenko, of the social policy of pensioners, are experiencing their own bitter experience of hard work, as the number of such bills has increased considerably. And I, and I asked for a word, and I signed up for a speech to prevent a session hall from supporting in general any draft legislation that seems to be aimed at social protection. I'll explain why. Over the years of independence, we have accumulated sufficient experience as to how well - thought intentions have brought negative results to society and the spread of power. This is usually the case when laws are adopted in a wave of emotion, not in a sober way. And sooner or later, we know that because we're adults, life has made adjustments, but because of the shock of society, because of the emergence of new problems in the same social sphere. Which is positive in the bill number 3728, and the MP's political party "The Hard Ukraine" will support it, but on the first reading. The positive is the first, the attempt, we see this attempt for the first time in our legislation, to introduce a new term for the social status of children of war. Of course, positive though there are a number of questions. And the second positive is the stated measure of social protection of this very category of citizens, without attracting them to another category of our citizens. There are certainly going to be significant problems, and that's what the bill's author said would be a major problem with the implementation of the bill itself. I would like to express these warnings, which are unconditional and binding, we spoke about them on our committee. First, please tell me, 09.05. 45 are children of war, and 10.05 are born. 45 years old, did they have any other childhood? Born 09.05. 45, but in Orenburg, and they moved here because their parents were transferred here to work? There will be a lot of problems and gaps in legislation in this status. Secondly, I agree with the question of a respected colleague of Carmazin, who was questioning the status, you know, of the status of a participant in the war and the benefits that we have with you in the 32nd year, and he foresees the work that they did during the occupation. 09.05. In 45 years, Ukraine was released in 44. There are a lot of questions that can't have a place in legislation. And thirdly, I think, and this is my firm conviction: we need to review the social protection measures in this bill and not in the extra benefits, but in money terms, depending on the material situation, by retaining targeted and social assistance. I suggest we call on the session room to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u66	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs. Of course, the Constitution guarantees the right to an adequate standard of living for every Ukrainian citizen -- I stress that. And that should be our priority, and that's where we have to go, and that's where all the presidential candidates have to go. I was sorry that no one had been told about my faction friend, Victor Yushchenk's presidential candidate. But consider: Is this not a child of war? Father stayed in three concentration camps. This Catherine Chumachenko you've been carrying, why is she abroad? Why? Isn't that a child of war? Well, why are you doing this, Your Honor? It's a blow to the lower belts of people who have. Five Ukrainian citizens were born, five! And Ukraine is dying. Each of you needs to give birth to five men — and then we will be proud of this state. As for the project, I mean. Ladies and gentlemen, the project needs to be named a little differently. I propose that it be called, "The social protection of children born during the Great Homeland War in Ukraine." This will be a legally correct, balanced step. There are no children in war -- there are only victims in war. That's why these people don't need names, let them live for a hundred years, they don't need to hang the term "children of war" because we give them a tax. They have parents -- they're Ukrainian citizens, and we don't have to cast a shadow on those parents. So it won't do us any good if we call it that. Now for the suggestions. The suggestion that decisions by enterprises, institutions, and organizations that provide benefits may be challenged by the district government executive board, the executive board of the city council, simply make no sense, so they don't have a certain circle of authority. Articles 7 and 12 of the Law contain the same provisions regarding the validity of the law. This is a duplication, it needs to be thrown out, it's unacceptable from a normative point of view. writing legal language. Next. There is a proposal in the law for this category of persons to establish such a benefit, a guarantee of employment rights. Since January 1, 2005, if we put in a law, these people will be 60 years old. What are the labour rights? They need to rest. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u68	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues! Once again, we've taken 10 minutes to discuss and make decisions. Including nine minutes for discussion. Nine minutes is up, so we'll be clear. We're not breaking anything. Yes, the draft Law on the Social Protection of Children of War is on the vote. Registration number 3728. At the same time, dear fellows, I would like to draw your attention once again to what the reporter of Baranowski has said that we are putting this bill in its original form. In the first original edition, not in the one that was then replaced! This is a proposal from the committee and the author. Please vote. [[11:27:17]] For 260 Decision taken. In the other one? Is it all or not? Oh, no? The factions, please. Yes, "Our Ukraine" - 29, Ukrainian regions - 45, Communists - 53, SDPU - 26, Dem. Initiatives - People's Rule 9, Labour Ukraine - 11, National Agrarian Party - 18, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 14, Union - 8, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, Center - 14, Postfaction - 2. We're going to consider a whole set of bills to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, here we have about ten bills. But given that we've already accepted one, and some of them are probably authors who will take a look at their projects. Bill 3306 will be reported by Biloval Alexander Mikolayovich. I can't see. Then, please, Bill 3297. Rudkovsky Mikola. Nor is it. Bill 2407-2. Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Bill 5439 proposes to increase the amount of allowances and pensions for veterans of the Great Homeland War provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Social Protection, on the basis of the living minimum established for persons who have lost their jobs and other categories of persons who are equal to persons with disabilities of war to those who participate in hostilities from the minimum age pension. There are currently about 3 million war veterans in the country, including the first group, about 43,000 persons with disabilities, 160,000 persons with disabilities, and 310,000 persons with disabilities, and 160,000 persons with a third group with 35,000 combat participants. The pensions of many veterans do not reach the subsistence minimum for incapacitated persons, but they are for people, many of whom, apart from State assistance, cannot count on any other assistance. The pension entitlements provided for by the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Social Protection Guarantees, should have been calculated from the minimum pension, i.e. 92 bracelets of 45 copies, and an estimated value of only 19 bracelets of 91 copies was adopted. The unrestrained rise in the prices of essential goods and services consumes all the funds of veterans that have recently been allocated to them by the State to improve their material situation. The Ministry of Finance, recalling that the draft law would increase the spending part of the budget, did not support the draft law. But, dear comrades, today it is a category of winners, who in the years of the Great Homeland War did not spare their lives and their blood, wounded, hurt, hurt, sick. And after the war, they did all they could to restore the people's land. And today, instead of paying the greatest attention and attention to those people who are unable to provide for themselves today, the State is turning away from them. The Supreme Council has adopted a decree, as you recall, to declare 2005 the year of war veterans. So let us give the distinguished people a gift to the veterans, to those people who have done everything for their people who have done everything for their country, and we will accept this draft law in the first reading. In addition to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, I propose that the project be adopted on first reading. Article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine will be implemented by the adoption of the Act, which states that pensions may not be less viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u70	Yes. Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich, sit down. Jankowski Mikola Andriyovich, please. Get ready, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u71	Mikola Yankowski, 48th Election District, Gorlovka. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainian War Veterans Act, the guarantee of their social protection was introduced by Supreme Council Decision No. 3552-12 of 22.10.93 in time since its entry into force, which has revealed some of its shortcomings, which are related to the imperfection of the individual articles of this Act, as well as to the real changes that have taken place in the social and political life of the State. But since the introduction of this bill, which I report on May 2003, some time has passed and some changes have been made in connection with the adoption of Ukraine’s new laws. First of all, this is the Ukraine Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection from 02.10.2003. Ukraine's second law to amend article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection from June 15, 2004 And today's law, which was reported to me in my first reading, on children of war, in which, in one way or another, are taken into account in our proposed law, the draft law here is proposed by excluding the addition to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, to grant the right to benefit widows whose husbands have died without being disabled. I think it's relevant and it'll be fair. Because if the participant in the fighting had rewards but was not disabled and died, then the widow did not benefit from the benefits. And if you're disabled, you're using it. So I ask you to support this bill in this section 2407-2 so that the additions to article 10 are included in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u72	Mikolo Andryovich, thank you. Mironenko Viktor Andryovich, please. Get ready for Chickanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u73	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, distinguished people's deputies, respected Vladimir Mihajlovich. This law has been adopted with a view to restoring justice to the families of those who have been killed and who really need social protection and social assistance. The implementation of this law requires very little, I stress very little. Given that this category enjoys a 50 per cent reduction in the cost of housing, utilities, fuel costs, the law requires only 36 million bracelets, which is an extremely small sum for the State budget. And that's what many MPs have been talking about, which I'm also in the committee with. However, we would like to draw attention to the following. In Russia, the Pensions Act has been adopted for such families. We could also try to adopt this law, although we have a slightly different focus on the benefit, yes. But we also took into account that the law would require more than twice the amount required by the law. Therefore, we ask you, all those deputies who have worked on this bill and those who understand this problem in the Government, and in particular are suffering in an ineffective manner, suffer much more than many other segments of the population. Please support the families of the deceased participants in the hostilities, veteran organizations, the Committee, the State Committee on Veterans. Now they are united by this common disaster. And it's quite combined as some organized part of the population is now waiting for your help, distinguished people's deputies. They expect what you vote for, give them support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u74	Yes. Sergey Vladenovich Ciccanov. Please. Prepare Michael Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u75	Deputy Chicanov, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The proposed bill provides for some amendments to articles 6 and 9 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans to guarantee their social protection. This law was passed, as you know, in 1993. Since then, a considerable amount of time has passed. And I think we need to make some changes. Amendments proposed. In particular, article 6, which defines persons who are part of the fighting, proposes to amend the participants in the fighting, who are awarded a medal for the Sevastopol Defense. Why is such a proposal made? The fact is that, to date, there is a situation where just over a hundred people who are awarded a Sevastopol medal are not involved in hostilities because they were not on the list of military forces who participated in Sevastopol's defence, but were simply rewarded with this medal for defending Sevastopol. There is some legal discrepancy in the status of the Sevastopol Defence Medal and our law, which guarantees the status of war veterans and social protection. Thus, it is proposed to make such a change, to make it more comparable, “which, from October 30, 1941 to July 4, 1942, participated in the defense of the city of Sevastopol and were awarded the Sevastopol Medal. ” It is also proposed to amend, supplement, the 12th paragraph of article 9 will be added: “To recognize as war participants persons who, during the defence of the city of Sevastopol, lived in its territory from 30 October 1941 to 4 July 1942.” Dear colleagues! The heroic defense of Sevastopol has no parallels in the history of the Great Homeland War: 250 days, more than 250 days, city dwellers actually participated in the defence of the city and participated in hostilities. There was no rear, there was fighting everywhere. The city was shooting at us. We know this very well from the historical facts. After the city was liberated, there were only a dozen houses left. Dear colleagues, let us restore this justice, and today, when we are all with you, our Ukraine, and, as we said earlier, all progressive humanity marks the 150th anniversary of Sevastopol's first defence, which is noted in Crimea. This year marks the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders. The release of Sevastopol in May was 60. Let us restore justice! We have the address of the Sevastopol City Council session of February this year, which requests amendments to the bill. Such persons who lived in the town of Sevastopol, worked in defence facilities, actually engaged in hostilities, and now there are no more than 2,000,800 persons. The costs that need to be borne amount to just over one million 800,000 bracelets. Today, the Sevastopol City Council is partially implementing these funds and helping veterans. I call on all the deputies to support the bill and to vote unanimously for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u76	Thank you, Sergey Vladlenovich. Mikhail Dobkin. Alexander Baranowski, your project, please. Get ready for Anastasia's committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u77	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting the previous law, 3728: Protecting the children of war, which you have supported. Here is our member of the faction of the Socialists of Vernigor while we were sitting, and he wrote this poem, "Children of War: "I was greeted by the Redeemer, I was hit by a savage. I'm not happy with the clock. War broke out. Even Chapai couldn't play, Not in the Bayoney Squadrons, There was a cannon in the yard. There were bullets under my feet. So now I have the right to get used to it. To open such trips, Where at six years of age can you borrow at least a day? And play a child's war." I wanted to sound it. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. In view of the fact that my bill is largely cited in Law 3728, which was voted on in the first reading today, I am withdrawing my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u78	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss it, we will briefly discuss it. A summary of our discussion will be given by the committee head, Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich. Is there no objection? Then please sign up for the discussion. Oh, I'm sorry! Light up on the board. How much will we talk about? Ten minutes to discuss and make a decision. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u79	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Many laws on this issue and, in general, in Ukraine are unfortunately not in force or implemented. They are not controlled by anyone, either by the Prosecutor's Office or local authorities or by the Cabinet of Ministers or by the President himself. Some provisions of many laws are voluntarily repealed or amended at the discretion of various officials and officials who have no right to do so. Veterans, persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War are no longer benefiting from any benefits, some of them are provided for by enterprises they once worked for, are not paid for, as most of these enterprises are no longer or are not working. Consequently, no extra payments exist and no one cares. The 50 per cent discount on the purchase of drugs does not work for them because there are no drugs, so there is no discount. Most cities, including the city of Kirovograd, do not meet the requirements of the law that in the construction or reconstruction of infrastructure the interests of persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War should be taken into account. In our area, 35,000 disabled persons, including the city of Kirovograd, are 17,000. In addition, 1,400 people are disabled by the Great Homeland War. A lot of Afghans, Chernobyl. But there is no single focal point in the field, and there is no large-scale focal point in the country. Each of the many organizations of persons with disabilities acts on its own and at its own discretion. It is therefore likely that there is a need to have such a focal point in Ukraine and in each area. The proposed free trip once every two years in this law by rail, water, air, or intercity road transport for third - group persons with disabilities is certainly to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u80	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Labour Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we should thank the parents, the founders of American democracy, for the development and improvement of the institution of the presidency. If it hadn't been for them, we wouldn't have had the election of the President of Ukraine today. There probably wouldn't have been such an explosion of legislative initiatives by national MPs, a government in the field of social protection of citizens. All the bills that we are about to consider will certainly have a public-political resonance. That's understandable. But I'm calling you again. Please tell me, will they all work for the social welfare of our people? I don't mean that general comment to all the bills that all the new benefits that we're trying to introduce here need additional budget expenditure, which, if they are, will be from 1 January 2006 instead of 2005. We're lying to people again. For a long time, this room has clearly followed two very different conceptual models of solving the social problems that we are now experiencing. The first model or first approach is so romantically populist that people like it, produce new and new benefits without financial security. Something is produced free of charge, although all services in society, like all goods, have a real price. The consequences are sad for people as well as for sectors such as transport, housing and utility, formation, and so forth. And for some reason, they want to do "good" to some demoagogue politicians, forgetting that people work in the same areas, and they also need to solve social problems, particularly not just pay, but health and pension insurance. The second approach is pragmatic and realistic based on specific indicators of economic development of society, on the financial capabilities of the State. Such bills are not very popular, they are generally criticized and cursed, but they are the basis for a gradual, dynamic improvement in the social protection of people and, above all, war veterans. We need to fight, and I firmly believe this, we need to fight not for the benefits that are demeaning people today, but for the high level of wages and the high level of pensions. Regrettably, there are few who will actually work from a large list of laws today. I just want to stop at one point. Ladies and gentlemen, let's ask the veterans of the Great Homeland War. A man born in the 33rd, as suggested, 34th, 45th year will become a participant in the war. Is that fair to our frontists or veterans? And one more thing. New benefits, namely Bill 5505 - 100 percent discount on housing use, 100 percent discount on the use of utilities. We, if we go along this demagogic path, we're going to cause a lot of trouble and housing and utilities, and we're not going to do anything to help people. I call on the legislators who work on social bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u83	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". The Party of Homeland Defenders has always raised the issue of the priority of protecting war veterans and guaranteeing their social protection, real, not in words. So far, the government has failed to ensure that even the law that it is is actually implemented. There is no cure. Today, members of the war are required to do a variety of things and to prevent, in effect, the appearance that they are hindering everyone. It's in Kiev, and it's on the road. So I'm going from this high rostrum to Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenka -- give order on these routes. Veterans complain all the time. As for the projects, I think we should all take them in first reading and thank the authors for preparing them. But there are some projects that are noted and there are justifications. If, for example, the National Deputy Volkov and Billowol propose to replace article 13, paragraph 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, which proposes that the disabled of the 3rd Group should be given the right to choose between free rail, water and so on so that they can implement and free of charge so that people can travel once a year by rail, water, air or intercity road transport, and the persons they accompany would be able to use 50 percent discount, Minfine asks: where to take the money? I'm telling you, you don't have to announce all the time that all children have to be taken out for free. What? My child will be paid for by me, and everyone sitting here will also pay for their children. And you don't just have to distribute the benefits so much and make it look like it's done by the Crossroads, it's going to be given by the state, because it's a state enterprise, not someone's private, do it privately -- give the benefits to whoever you want and who you want. And here, please count the money that's spent and enough for all the veterans of the war left to actually do that. So I'm telling you right now where the sources of the replenishment are. It's a very good project by the people's MP of Rudzkowski for free getting medical supplies, sanitation, and so on. I'm going to get letters from the Cherkas region: Spela, Caterinopolis says we're subsidized regions, and we can't pay any more. What is it? What are the donor regions? The only government we have today is the grant, because it's fair. That's why I'm saying that, ladies and gentlemen, we need to find and secure funding from those, and I'm saying fair in quotes, and it's like it's written on the run.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u84	Yes. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, first of all, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank everyone for their active participation and submission of draft laws and discussion. I hope that we will also vote actively today in favour of these documents. That's the first one. It's different. I thank Alexander Baraniwski, the author of one of the bills that he has withdrawn, understanding that we have taken a step to meet each other to solve this problem. We will have additional opportunities, and we will resolve these questions. As for the committee's decision and the suggestions I'd like to make on behalf of the committee. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, considering that we are in the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders and we are going to meet the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory, and having carefully examined all the documents that are proposed, and seeing them as an attempt to repay our parents for everything they have done for the country, is proposing the bills that were presented in the first reading today. The only document, I think we'll consult and we'll make a decision, I'd like to put Bill 3306 separately, which the committee believes may be adopted today as a whole. Because it's about the possibility of choosing a third-group war invalid between using a 50-percent premium to travel to and from any region of Ukraine every year or once every two years completely free. Realizing that a war invalid often does not have the 50 percent that he has to pay out of his own pension, because the health and the size of his pension will cause him to say that very often there is no such thing as this rule does not entail additional budget costs altogether, I would ask the hall to accept this document as a whole. Everyone else will take the first reading, and the committee will try to get them into a single document in preparation for the second reading, so that they can then enter the room with a single document for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u86	Yes. Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Please, Olena Vasilovna Hotch. Government position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'll take the position of the government on one of the bills. It refers to Bill No. 5439 of the Honourable People's Deputy Gerasimov. In full support of the proposal to raise the level, the Cabinet of Ministers introduced Bill 6104 to the Supreme Council and it will soon be considered by the Supreme Council. And I think, Mr. Ivane Alexandrovich, you will support this proposal, because in scientific expertise, the findings in the science department say that your bill costs over 3 billion dollars. And we've been trying to find in the government during the holidays to fund part of the expenditure under this bill, and we've proposed a financially based bill. If, please, the honourable national MPs, take this into account during the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u88	As for all the other bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u89	Lydia Mikolayevna Drozdova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u90	Yes. Lydia Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of all the bills that have been announced and discussed here are also not supported by Bill 5509 of the People's Deputies of Mironenko, which applies to the establishment of a percentage reduction in salaries for the use of residential services. Because it is not socially fair to families who have died in VAT, war invalids, and other war veterans. Nor is the Bill of the People’s Deputy of Chichanov supported. Part of the granting of status as warlords to those who lived in Sevastopol was because it was an unacceptable idea in relation to the idea of the entire law on the status of war veterans. Other bills discussed are supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u92	Yes, honourable colleagues, taking into account the suggestions, the comments that have been made, we will proceed to the vote. The first is to vote on the draft law, registration number 3306, introduced by the Volkovi National Deputies and Billowol, which is to amend article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and guarantee their social protection. The committee supports this project, right? Yes. Please vote. [[11:57:58]] For 318 Decision taken. The committee proposes that this project be voted on as a law as a whole. Is there a denial? None. Since there is no objection, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law as a whole as a law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, registration number 3306. Please vote. [[11:58:40]] For 306 The law is passed. The draft law, registration number 3297, author of the National MP Rudzikowski, on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and on the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. 3297, I say again. To be accepted as a basis. [[11:59:15]] For 266 Decision taken. Next. Dear colleagues, the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to Articles 9, 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees Their Social Protection is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:59:56]] For 289 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, registration number 5439, the authors of the National Deputies of Herasimov, Feldman. [[12:00:39]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Please turn on the Zibank microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u93	The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I would like to address both the government and the majority. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the drafters of the bill are John Alexanderovich Herasimov and Deputy Feldman, who represents the majority. That's the first one. Secondly, I'd like to ask the government. Helen Vasilovna, do you support the idea of increasing payments to disabled people as far as we can? That's what this bill is all about. I'm asking you: let's take it on the first reading, and then we'll look for compromise. We realize that it is not normal to pay for a disabled person when he comes out of 19 bracelets. I'm asking: let's take it in the first reading and then in the process of preparing for the second reading we'll seek compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'll put it to a vote. Who, in order to go back to the draft law, registration number 5439, the authors are the national deputies of Herasimov, Feldman. [[12:02:15]] For 238. There's an agreement. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law, registration number 5439, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. The authors are the national deputies of Gerasimov, Feldman. [[12:02:49]] For 258. Decision taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 49, Ukraine - 59, Communists - 58, SDPU - 23, Deminiciates and Peoples - 7, Labour Ukraine - 9, National Agrarian - 17, SPU - 15, Block Timoshenko - 2, Alliance - 0, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 4, Center - 10, non-fractional - 5. Dear colleagues, vote on the basis of the draft Law. [[Registration number 5509, authors of the People's Deputy Mironenko]] This is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[12:03:45]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 45, Ukrainian regions - 0, Communists - 58, SDPU - 12, Deminiciates and Peoples - 4, Labour Ukraine - 1, National agrarian - 18, SPI - 16, Block Timoshenko - 2, Alliance - 0, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 0, Center - 0, non-fractional - 4. What is the position of the committee? Let's stick to the Rules. I'm voting on re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 5509]] [[12:04:38]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! All those who wanted to have it. Calm down, please. It's about voting on the bill. Change the vote. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 57, Regions - 42, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 9, Deminiciatives - People's Government - 3, Labour Ukraine - 0, People's Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 16, Block Timoshenko - 4, Union - 4, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5, Center - 0, Postfraction - 4. This is not how the bill was adopted. It is on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[Registration 5400, author of National MP Ciccanov]] [[12:05:53]] For 171 Project not accepted. Committee position? The committee suggests that this project be re-readed. This proposal for a draft law is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5400]] [[12:06:27]] For 263 Decision taken. It is on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, (registration number 5283, the authors of the National Deputies: Dobkin, Svetash. [[concerning children of war]] [[12:07:04]] For 229 Decision taken. Puts the vote to the vote. Here's the shot. We were about to vote on draft law, registration number 5283-1, authors of national MPs Baranowski, Rudzikowski. They're filming this project because in the previous bill we voted on the basics and positions of this document. This package has been completed. Dear colleagues, if it were your will, we have very important social laws. If we take a break, it'll be hard for us to get together. The head of the Regulatory Committee does not object. Thank you. A draft law on the establishment of pensions for participants in the Great National War, registration number 5438, is being announced for consideration. The reporter is National Deputy Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor. Valentin Alexiyevich Anastasiayev will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, Leonid Vernigor, Socialist faction. Very often, one of the leaders of the Supreme Council addresses the long - suffering people without, of course, referring to the oligarchs. How, then, can we address those who are at war, who are cut, cut, burned, defiled, deceived by authority, sick, and infirm? To them, parents and grandparents, today, as the glorious anniversary of victory approaches, we must turn to them and atone for our wrongs: not by offerings, not by allowances, but by law, to establish a pension no less than a living minimum. In all countries today, living from the minimum to the consumer basket, even in Equatorial Africa, is approaching. And how difficult it is for our veterans, who are ahead of the glorious Jubilee, to receive 20 Jubilee medals that they find difficult to wear, these prizes that have already been celebrated since the war. But it is most difficult that they are in poverty; the poverty in which their power and state plunged them. And their old wounds do not sting as much as their shame for the taxes, for the subsidies they no longer have the health and creeping capacity for, and for how to become mere beggars. And the government approves the annual programming promise of a step - by - step approach to the subsistence minimum. Did our three-time academics think from social policy, which is not approaching the minimum, have to get at least closer to something higher and, in this case, to a standard of living? And they were thinking, so these academics, that the participants of the war are gradually approaching the eternal limit faster than the subsistence limit of their scientific minimum. And how offensive it is for veterans to beat thresholds, where they issue 30 pennies of taxes, by the time they adopt the law on the establishment of pensions for war participants not less than the minimum of living, I don't call it the amount, because it's always established when the Budget Act is passed. I know they're gonna start asking me questions right now: Where do I get the money? And even today, Helen Vasilovna said that it would take at least three billion or more. But if you listen carefully to our candidate's statement to the Presidents, the head of the government of Yanukovic, he promises to pay all veterans to the minimum of living money today. It turns out there's money. But why should someone promise to hand out this money as a millet before the elections, for that is the case with someone today. I think that these are all the bills that we've been looking at today, and for which we've voted in a friendly way, and in which almost everyone has these supplements, I think it's time we didn't pay them, not give them any different taxes, but it's time to adopt a law that doesn't offend us, but raise in our eyes the war effort of our parents and grandparents who allowed us to sit in this Parliament and decide: set them a pension at the minimum of living, I repeat, minimum, not pay. Therefore, our moral obligation is to avoid the death of those involved in the war from malnutrition, from the inability to obtain drugs, and so forth. I believe that the law that I have passed for consideration is a moral law, a law that must decide the fate of our parents, grandparents, with you. Therefore, I propose to set a pension for the participants of the Great National War not less than the subsistence minimum set by the Ukrainian legislation for a working person. And the act of this law comes after the adoption of the State Budget Act 2005 from January 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u96	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. The committee’s head of the committee for pensioners, veterans, and invalids, Valentin Alexiyovich Anastasiev, has the floor for the report. Please, Valentin Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u97	Anastasiav, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Retired Veterans of Disabled Persons has considered a bill on the establishment of pensions for participants in the Great Homeland War submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Vernigora. Registration 5438. The bill provides for a pension of not less than the subsistence minimum for working citizens for participants in the Great Homeland War. As of 1 January 2004, there are some 3 million participants in the Great Homeland War in Ukraine. Many of them have fewer pensions than a subsistence minimum. And I fully join Leonid Mihajlovich in his statement on the state of life of many veterans of the Great Homeland War today as they are characterized by poverty. And given that prices for basic foods, medicines, utilities are constantly rising, veterans lack not only money for life but also for existence. And the adoption of this law, the bill, will improve the social security of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. On the basis of the fact that 2005 was proclaimed as the year of the sixtieth anniversary of victory for veterans in Ukraine, the Committee proposes a bill, which is a registration bill, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Vernigora as the basis. By adopting such a decision, we will comply with article 46 of the Constitution for the participants in the Great Domestic War, which states that the pension cannot be below the subsistence minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u98	Thank you, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now on to the discussion. Let's take 10 minutes to discuss and make a decision. Is there no objection? Victor Mironenko, a faction of Communists, prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma. Victor Mironenko refuses. Jaroslav Suhi, please, the faction of "Trouble Ukraine". Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! I will continue with my colleague Mironenko's good proposal, and I propose to the others that we cut back, because this bill, if we reject the emotional speech of the creative man, my social policy committee colleague, can certainly serve as an example for all of us of a new more realistic approach to solving the painful problems of strengthening the social protection of participants in the Great Homeland War. It's hard not to agree with the drafter of the bill that we should stop demeaning our front-runners with various kinds of taxes, especially the benefits that are not being financed today, and therefore are not being implemented. We just humiliate people. The more payments or payments that are in the budget, the less they are in the budget, the mail is closed, something else. We have one final bill, and I think it's going to be a bill from the honourable colleague of Vernigor, to make a decision on this matter. Of course, we can discuss, and perhaps we will have to discuss all of the drafts of this bill for a second reading on the principle of living minimum status: whether we are going to take a minimum of living, or whether we are going to take a minimum of living for a non-working population, which, you know, from 1 January 2005 for a poor population, is going to be $300. That too. Well, you can, in your own words, go out with some motive, with some argument, and the point is. The point is, instead of being false, I emphasize this word, the false benefits that we don't have, we move on to a normal civilized conversation, to talk about that we're passing a bill that defines a specific measure of social protection. And one more thing. I'm still talking to my fellow Ukrainian national MPs: let's take into account the social significance of the social protection of the frontists. We're trying our best to get people to join the frontists today: 1932, 1933, 1945. This is unfair and unfair. And you don't have to do that. Let's make the money that we have in the budget that we're going to blow out of the budget, make sure that the last years of our frontalists' lives are happy, the kind that they gave us in their time, the peaceful skies above our heads. And another warning. The point is that this bill, like other bills, can take effect from January 1st 2005 or 2006. That is, two committees of this bill need to be taken into account in their work. The bill proposes that a pension of not less than a subsistence minimum be established for the participants of the Great Homeland War, and this approach should only be welcomed. I'm offering a proposal from the MPs, the political party "Trug Ukraine": to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u100	Thank you. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u101	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, we often hear very good words from the rostrum, especially before the elections, even from those who contribute to the implementation of the current policy. And that's understandable: the elections are coming up, and we know that the President can veto and so on. With regard to the bill, of course, it is necessary, in our view, for the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and its leader, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenka, to be supported. We're not that big a minimum of living, and that's what we're talking about. How can people pay their wages, their pensions below the minimum of living? We do. That's wild! So, at least, if we have an excuse, we have the centrifuge parties, first of all, an excuse that there is no money, then please find the money for those people who have done so much for our people. They have so little to live for. Please feel sorry for them, vote in favour. Well, as for the next one. If there is support, thank God, but we must continue to observe the position of both the Government and the President. The President vetoes when the Government does not want the law to act. Soon, very soon, literally in the coming weeks, we will see whether this bill will in fact be supported by the Government or not. This will be demonstrated in the position of the President of Ukraine. And I would also like to say that, unfortunately, the bill on the families of those who have been killed has not yet been voted extremely necessary for a certain, small part of the population, but a very poor part of the population. The sum, we've already talked about, is worthless. And who didn't vote? It was not the representatives of the centrist parties who voted. I point out that I always try to tell the truth. Dear Carmazin, don't interfere, please. Now, I'm always trying to tell the truth, and I want to tell you the truth, half of the faction of "Our Ukraine," despite my strong remarks, voted. And people will probably call them "thank you." But people will not say "thank you" to the presidential factions who did not vote in favour of the bill. This is an extremely poor part of the population! Well, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the elections are coming. Show wisdom, and then you will have to endure for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u102	Please, Karmazin, the faction of our Ukraine, and Yuri Anatoliyovich is asking for a reminder. Although he's so famous, everyone knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u103	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". That's what it's called. Honorable People’s Deputies, Multitude Ukrainian People! What is now being proposed by the national MP Vernighor, who somehow feared to call my last name that I so address the long-suffering Ukrainian people is absolutely right and fair. How right and fair this is in relation to all Ukrainian citizens, because article 46 of the Constitution states and guarantees that citizens have the right to social protection, which includes the right to provide them with full, partial or temporary loss of employment, loss of a breadwinner, unemployment from conditions beyond their control. and in old age and other cases provided for by law. That's the answer to those citizens I spoke to the other day in Chigirin. The answer is that the State is obliged to pay at least 386 dollars 73 dollars. That is the minimum that is currently laid down in Ukrainian legislation. And the third part of this article 46 of the Constitution explicitly states: "Pensions, other forms of social pay and assistance, which are the main source of existence, must ensure a standard of living no less than the subsistence minimum laid down by law." If you remember, we set a minimum wage of 237, not us, but the government, and only since September 1st, when we had it from January 1, 237. The "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's Block, requires the adoption of this law now in two readings: both in the first and in general, as a law. That's the first one. The other one. The faction of "Our Ukraine" requires the government to secure the budget, lay down this law and submit it for approval in September. This will be a real attitude toward the citizens of Ukraine, not some pre-election campaign. It's real. Now you're going to ask me where the money came from. I want to show you all. First of all, I regret that there is no Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin now. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I spoke to you five months ago about the illegality of financing the equipment of most, automobiles that are driven by secretaries, lovers, everything else. Please stop this and give me an answer for the request. I demand it from you. Now let's move on. I'm showing you information that's going on about how to help you know what the boards that you called in Odessa are called, you know, their "run-thoracics" are called. That they're painted in red paint, which is this, black paint, green and so on. It's on two pages that's how these boards are painted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u104	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I heard you and the hall too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u105	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you to answer my parliamentary request for funding of the majority apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u106	We'll make sure of it. Please, Shibko, for a minute, and Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u107	Quickly, the Socialist faction of Ukraine, Dniproperty. I want to talk to my colleagues, and I want to talk to the audience who are now listening carefully to the discussion of this bill, which unfortunately is being discussed in a row today, but not the point of this bill. They're talking about their candidates, the program, everything you can do. And I wanted to make it clear that this is the Office of Experts, which denies the adoption of this law. And why does it deny it? Because she thinks there's some kind of benefits coming in. And here's the thing, I'd like to go to my colleagues and the radio audience, not the benefits. The new bill defines the minimum amount of pensions that will not depend on the State's generosity for any budgetary period. That's why I propose that there be a supplement here in the Law: "The provisions of the Law do not affect the benefits laid down by law for the participants of the Great Homeland War." And it's about ordinary things -- about the pension that has to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u108	Thank you. Please microphone Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u109	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, I've been written into the previous Law and into this Law, but unfortunately, the 5th or 6th and I haven't come all the time, so I'm asking you very much, give me not one minute, but give me three minutes, so I can speak. Dear, honourable, venerable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. I fully support this Law as a participant in the Great Homeland War, my brother was also a participant in the fighting, he was also rewarded, he was rewarded with an Order, what was the military order called? And "For bravery," and, and the Order of Glory, and therefore I believe that indeed those who were on the front should receive a pension at the minimum of living. That's where we have to start. And what I want to say is that I'm asking you to adopt this Law in the first reading, and I'm going to put it in the second reading. Go on, please. I'm going to make a proposal to the second reading so that, apart from those who were on the front in the Great Homeland War and so were the free movement participants, such a pension would also be granted. And there's very few of them, and it's perfectly normal, and it's humane if we give the free movement participants such a pension. And last but not least, dear friends, I'm interested in more young people, I'm interested in a young teacher, a young doctor, a young artist, they should get a normal salary, and that's why we, members of the Great Homeland War, have to understand clearly: many of us are completely secure people. During the Soviet Union, I never used the benefits because I had a normal wage. I still have a normal salary. General Gerasimov also has a normal salary for his entire life. So we need to look very clearly at those who have a wage, a minimum of living. They certainly need to receive such a pension and the corresponding benefits. So we have to figure out among the participants in the Great Homeland War. Now the number of participants in the Great Homeland War is increasing from year to year. And then the number of those on the front goes down from year to year. And in that case, you have to put the order in order. And among other things, this is the task of both the organization known by Mr. Herasim and that organization, the All - Ukrainian Veterans Union that I know. Some moral justice must be established regarding what is called a participant in the Great Homeland War and a participant in liberation movements. Both must be given both pensions and wages and benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u110	Please, from the government of Helen Vasilovna Hotch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government has also introduced a bill that will significantly improve the level of retirement of members of the fighting and participants in the war. This bill is provided with financial resources. And it's probably no secret to you that every national MP would sign a bill to improve the level of retirement. Five minutes ago, the bill of John Alexandrovich Gerasimov was adopted. So, in my opinion and in the opinion of the government, it is necessary to work to secure these payments financially. The bill proposed by the National MP Vernighor stands out, I'm paying attention to you, just one category. And this category offers seven billion dollars. So answer that question when you vote whether you can single out a category and adopt a law that is not financially secured. We propose to work on the government bill and on the bill that Peter Stepanovitch was talking about, that the committee will deal with the issue. And let's solve the question of second reading, as required by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u112	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, we've already taken over. Roast, please. Wearing microphone. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Colleagues! Dear Mrs. Oleno! I was just insisting that, on behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine" on a replica after your performance. The "Our Ukraine" faction will still support this bill for a very simple reason, because we don't trust the government. How can we believe a government that is the only government in the history of modern Europe that has lowered the minimum wage? I mean, your price, this price of your words as a representative of the government. I'm telling you, Mrs. Olena, I believe you would really like to do this. Unfortunately, you represent a government that works against this nation, not in the name of that nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u114	Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich's microphone. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u115	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! First of all, I ask you to uphold this law is our sacred duty to our parents, the winners, the participants in the Great War. Moreover, the attitude toward them today, unfortunately, cannot be called human in some regions, as Igor Raphaelovich spoke of. Why am I talking about this right now? On September 8, Terebovlian City Council of the Ternopil Region decided to ban the activities of the Communist Party of Ukraine within the city. And this was done on the initiative of a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction, secretary of the City Council, this city council of Oksana White. This is what awaits you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u116	Question completed. Let's be clear. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft law on the establishment of pensions for participants in the Great War, registration number 5438. Please vote. [[12:34:32]] For 228 Thank you. Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 6o, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 4, Communists - 52, Social Democrats - 11, "Democratic Initiatives-The People's Government" - 9, "Trudova Ukraine" - 23, National Agrarian Party - 6, Socialists - 17, Block Timoshenko - 13, "Soyuz" -10, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 8, "Centre" -12, "Afterfaction" - 3. Is there any way to accept it as a law? It doesn't, does it? Then we prepare for the second. No one denies that as a whole as a law? There's a denial. Please listen to the question: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on pay, registration number 5386. Reported by National Deputy Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, this bill, which I am the author of, is aimed at: the first is the implementation of the concept of wage reform in Ukraine; the second is the implementation of the decisions of the Supreme Council on wage improvement; the third is the implementation of the programme of the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanuković aimed at improving the standard of living of the population; the fourth is the strengthening of people's motivation for work; the restoration of the wage-enhancing function; the increase in the cost of labour; and the strengthening of social protection for the working population of the country. Fifth, the re-establishment of these articles by laws in their original law, which were unlawfully violated in 2000 by the adoption of a law on the minimum wage for 2000 and the amendment of the Labour Act and the Labour Code. The Government's actions at the time had destroyed the pay system, the pay differential tariff network and, accordingly, the level of pay had made no difference in the remuneration of unskilled and highly skilled workers, resulting in extreme tension and particularly in the budgetary sectors of education and health. That was three years ago. Only the Government of Viktor Fedorović Janukovic has taken a courageous step and has taken effective measures to restore a fair pay system and, above all, the ratio of pay between unskilled and highly skilled workers. For this purpose, the 2004 budget provides a large amount of money. In short, the Government of Viktor Fedorović Janukovic is already practically doing what I am proposing with my bill, namely, to restore the existing rules of articles 3 and 4 of the Wages Act. They are very simple: Article 3 will complement, more precisely, what happened before 2000: "The minimum wage does not include payments, allowances, incentive and compensation payments." It must be fair: a person has earned his salary, and if he has made it better and there is an incentive, this is a supplement to the minimum wage. And article 6, because the tariff network was destroyed, is proposed to restore what was: "The tariff network is formed on the basis of the tariff rate of the first-level worker, which is set at a size exceeding the legislatively established minimum wage." The explanation is very simple: the minimum wage is set for an unskilled person, and the person who has the first grade has the qualifications, and therefore the wages should be set at least per cent but above the minimum wage established by law. The same is suggested, practically, in article 95 of the Labour Act and article 96, the same two paragraphs that I have already mentioned. Please support this proposal and restore justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, the secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich, will report. Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the bill that we have just heard 5386, has been carefully examined by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, and the committee has determined that the bill's proposed position was valid before the adoption of the Law on Minimum Wages for 2000 when Prime Minister of Ukraine was Victor Yushchenko. The authors' proposal to go back to their editorials is that the minimum wage is the salary for simple unskilled work, whereas the tariff rate for employees of the 1st place is the pay of a certain discharge and qualification, quite logically it must exceed the level of the legislatively fixed minimum wage. On the basis of this, and on the basis of a number of other objective assumptions and arguments that were called during the committee’s meeting, the committee considers that the main tasks of further reforming the pay system were to be defined as extraordinary in this session hall. The mission was because the concept was approved by the President of Ukraine's decree of December 25, 2000. This bill also corresponds to the main positions, the direction of the Ukrainian government's activities, in particular the "coherence, efficiency, responsibility" programme. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on further comments. And one more thing. This bill is largely about what we lost in our years of independence, namely, the motivation of the people of work. The committee therefore proposes that the bill be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u120	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, since the reporter and the coconspirator were very persuasive in arguing the importance and necessity of this law, may we not speak and make a decision at once? Well, then let's exchange our thoughts. Please, Mironenko. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u121	5th constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. It can really do some good. But I would like to point out the following. Right now, we've heard references to, uh, surfing, here in 2000, Yushchenko did something, Janukovic is correcting, doing better and so on. And in some cases there are still such references, to surf, which is why the benefits are often suspended, because Yushchenko has suspended, and the Janukovich Government is only continuing the policy that Yushchenko has put in place and so on. But for the people, there is no difference between who is in charge of the government. If it's capitalistic, they've been experiencing all these troubles for 14 years. And of course, when people think about future presidential elections and those candidates of the two that we just heard, the obstacles between them exist, people understand: the shit is not so good. Hence, it is likely that they are drawing the right conclusion. But here was also one of the leaders of trade unions who, in my view, the horror of how far away from the people has gone. In fact, he often does what the Government orders, and only sometimes does he pretend to do something for the people. Where's the other leader of the Stoyan trade union? Why isn't he in the hall? What's he doing? He says that he seems to be in the majority, he supports trade unions, he supports one of the main candidates, but what does he do, entrepreneurship, and the protection of the people? What? Well, it's probably not the protection of the people, we see. It must therefore be concluded that it is time to ensure that trade unions are re-elected, which will ensure that policy insists on policy for the people, that trade unions should be, not those that now serve the Government alone, that trade unions should not be. Trade unions should protect the interests of people of work. Therefore, I call on all Ukrainian workers to prepare for the election of trade union leaders, to ensure, above all, that decent candidates are provided, that trade unions have been able to protect the rights of workers. And, of course, it is a very difficult task in the absence of relevant laws that express interest. The Labour Code is being prepared. It's a terrible Codex, an anti-national Codex. But I am convinced that, in such a position of the Supreme Council, it can pass. What's next? And now we're talking about communists again. Yes, Communists, the people already know that the most consistent expressions of interest are in the workers. Who voted in favour of the pension law? You're right and center. Communists against the vote. Who, in a single economic space, is badly needed by the people, the economy of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u122	Thank you. Unfortunately, time is spent on the talk. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u123	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, you were absent, I applied when we were looking for where to take the money for the budget, demanding that I be answered by a parliamentary request for the termination of your illegal order to finance the majority apparatus. The "minority" machine never existed, you never financed it, you never created it, and most of it you created, gave them cabinets, cars, everything else. Stop, give me orders and give me an answer to my request six months ago. Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the fourth time, I repeat this from this rostrum. Don't scare me. I know you're a smart person, coming to you. I ask you again -- give me the machine, let them run you off to say today, "I canceled the illegal decision." All right, dot. And that's what we want to hear, and the people of Ukraine want to hear. The Party of Protectors of the Motherland requires this of you. As far as this bill is concerned. Honorable National MPs. The previous speaker here talked about how to choose the leaders of the unions. We all have to be smart about it. But what I'm saying is, you don't have to confuse the leaders of the union with the political prostitutes that your leader was talking about. So, dear friends, the unions are supposed to protect the people from government. Are they protecting him or not? They were not protecting any government, but they were looking around for a consistent role. Conciliation. It was in all times of government. Starting with the government of Kuchma, including the government and Yushchenka, including the government of Yushchenka, I repeat, and ending with the government of Yanukovich. They played a part in the community except for some of the trade unions. Because if that were not the case, then the requirements of article 46 of the Constitution that wages should not be lower than the minimum of living would be guaranteed in an independent state. And you and I are thinking, and when are we going to stretch out the requirements of the Constitution? When? Right now. That's right, that's how the Constitution predicted. And she accepted it back in 1996. And you're all getting closer to this bright future, you're getting closer. And it's, you know, it's not getting any closer. As far as this law is concerned. Dear friends, I have a point to make. First. You have to write in the article where you write, in article 96, in the text, it's in the Labour Code, in the text of "exceeding" to replace that with the word "not to be less than the legal size of minimum wage and inter-qualified ratios of tariff rates." One. The other one. The law takes effect, not from the day of publication, but from 31.01 onward.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with regard to the majority and the majority of the parliamentary majority, I would like to answer you and Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, because he really does address me on this point. I didn't make that decision. This was decided in 2000. And they say that you were also part of the majority, Yuri Anatolyovich. And I just didn't do anything about it. And this works in the same way as the previous period.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u125	The order is not legal. And give an answer to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u126	Well, I'll give you the answer, I'll study that question. I'll give you an answer. Okay. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, please, you're a very well-balanced man, please. It'll be fair. I'll check it out. Thank you. Okay, okay, thank you, thank you. Please. May I have your attention, please? Well, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Allow me to speak because it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u127	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Any defender of Capitalist Motherland is not a guide to the Communist faction, it's first of all that I have to make that observation. Dear colleagues, our faction supports this bill, we will vote in favour of it, but I would like to draw your attention to how the representatives of the yellow unions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the labor bankers shed crocodile tears from this rostrum, because modern Ukrainian capitalism has not swallowed it to the end of man's work, rejected it, given some weakness and is now about to gain new strength to make this last swallow happen. There will be no such thing as never, for the Communist faction, along with the working people of Ukraine, will become like a rock in the way of all your deceitful efforts. And no representatives of the bourgeois Motherland and Capitalist Motherland will be able to beat people's heads off today, as if they were protecting a man of work. I want to say that in this regard. Yes! Much of the MPs are independent of their belongings to one or the other factions already understand that the person of work must be supported, but it is, this part, under some pressure, a powerful pressure of those structures of authority that have formed and that represent today certain criminal oligarchic structures in Ukraine. There are other similar guys who want some bad guys to drop and put them in places like good guys. We won't give it to you! We will not let you and the people of Ukraine do this! And the last words. People of work, people of Ukraine, defend yourself! Protect yourself from all the capitalist invaders. And the Communist Party of Ukraine will help you and will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u128	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. One moment of motivation will now be, I will ask Vladimir Ivanovich, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, to express the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on this bill. Please. Very short. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! This bill is supported because this rule, which is mentioned in this bill, is already laid down in the Labour Code, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading. The only warning is that the implementation of this standard since 1 January 2005 requires an additional 7 billion dollars in the State budget. It is therefore proposed that this rule of law be introduced as of January 1, 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u129	Yeah, I get the offer. For reasons, please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. And a school of motivation. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The bill is palliative, but it is a step in the right direction, it needs to be supported and we will vote for it. But I would like to say, using the opportunity that the Supreme Council should in principle ask the question of wage policy in Ukraine. In fact, Ukraine’s wages have lost their economic role as an incentive, such as to ensure that the workforce is reproduced. I think we should ask the question like this. A government that is unable to provide minimum wage at the minimum wage must resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u131	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u132	Thank you. Of course, our faction will also vote in favour of this bill to become law, even though it will not eventually resolve all the complex and painful issues that have arisen in the pay system in Ukraine. I would like to stress, in fact, that the government here as the principal and authority should bear direct and direct responsibility for the fact that wages in Ukraine do not meet the standards that should be met. It's about the unions. I would like to stress that the fact that trade has long been transformed into an organ that serves this government rather than protects people’s work. And frankly, the absence of this law by the head of the Stoyan trade unions is somewhat surprising. I would just like all the members of the radio community to know that all of our voters knew that he was missing during the discussion of this important bill, which confirms once again that he is not interested in the activities of the unions or in the formation and work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pay. Registration number 5386. Please vote. [[12:54:56]] For 355 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it would be possible in general, but what about the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right. Then I ask the question: Who denies that we should vote in general right now? You don't? I am voting on the adoption of the draft law as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on pay, registration number 5386. There's a vote coming, please. [[12:55:52]] For 344 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, maybe we're on the move right now, there's a bill that's so important, 2598 and we'll figure it out. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. I'll do it then. We'll ask for a brief explanation. Please, Hara with motive microphone. Well, we would have made it, and then we would have continued there for four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to hear the report and vote. He's been waiting for two years in the session room. Well, it's a shame. Let us listen to the report and vote immediately. Keep it simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u135	Is there no objection? Please, Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u136	Thank you, fellow MPs! Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! It is known that the labour disputes under the Ukrainian Labour Code, as amended by the 1971 Act, which is in force so far, have been examined by both the courts and the superiors, in accordance with the restriction imposed by the 1988 Presidential Decree of the Supreme Council of the USSR. There the time limit is one year. In March 1991, Ukraine's Act amending and supplementing the Labour Code of the Ukrainian SSR in the transition of the Republic to a market economy excluded rules on the time limit for the consideration of complaints of a well-founded refusal to resume work, as well as the handling of labour disputes by superior authorities. [[That's what he's called.]] The exception granted citizens the right to appeal before a court of any authority for refusal of reinstatement at work, irrespective of the date on which such decisions were taken, i.e. during the time of the order. However, the courts have in some cases denied citizens complaints of illegal dismissal by applying the rule laid down in that decree, which is confirmed by the relevant appeals to me by citizens, and I have very much of them. Such judicial practice is contrary to the requirements of the current Ukrainian Constitution, in particular the equality of the constitutional rights of citizens and their equality before the law, the guarantees of citizens'rights to protection from illegal dismissal, the rights to appeal, the rights to appeal before the courts of public authorities and officials of those bodies, and the provision that the validity of laws and other regulations adopted prior to the entry into force of the Ukrainian Constitution is possible only in a part which is not contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, as indicated by the Institute of Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the basis of the bill submitted and commissioned by the leader of the Petr Simonenko faction. And the adoption of the bill will ensure the clarity of interpretation of labour dispute rules and enhance the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens, confirm that the rule of law is recognized and in force in Ukraine. Please support the bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u137	Thank you. We're going to vote, but there's a committee here on Onopenka's committee of reflection on this subject, so let's listen now and we'll be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! She's on her own with the committee, and I'm personally supported. But I wanted to draw your attention to what this could lead to today if we didn't look at this problem in the complex. I would like to remind you that today's labour disputes under our Labour Code are being considered, firstly, by labour commissions that are at businesses, institutions, organizations. This is the first filter. Courts are still pending if one of the employees or administration disagrees with the commission’s decision. There's another order. In particular, article 232 provides that under certain circumstances a worker may apply directly to the court by passing a commission. This is when it comes to release, regardless of what reasons, to compensate for the harm done to a woman who is pregnant, who has children and many other cases. The structure proposed today is written: Labour disputes are dealt with by labour commissions and still by district, city courts. And then, "the courts are all contentious." The articles themselves have a confrontation. Do you understand? We leave the disputes that will be handled by the labour commissions, and on the other hand, we say that all disputes are brought before the courts. Without altering article 232, there are five or six of them in the Labour Code. What's more, I'll tell you, article 24 of the current Civil Procedure Code provides for subordinate labour and other disputes. We're changing the Civil Procedure Code, so we've taken out one problem and we're trying to settle it. I say that's good, but you have to see the problem in the complex. There's another question. If for minutes all the commissions, i.e. the commissions, say, don't look at the disputes. All of this goes to the courts, all of this shaft. But do people want to go to court, pay the right costs, and all the rest when a person can resolve a matter in the Labour Commission? Do you understand what this could lead to? There's another problem. Yeah, we're subtracting this term "one year," we're taking it down. But it's not about the Labour Code, it's about the Civil Procedure Code. There are other problems. I can't raise them in the absence of time. Guys, let's not rush. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Committee on Legal Policy in general, did not address this issue. This is not normal. That's why I'm asking. There is no reference to private businesses. Read the article. It's all about institutions and organizations. Today, according to the Constitution, according to existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u139	Thank you. Okay. We can set that up. Who insists on the performance? Yuri Carmazin, please, as recorded. And let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u140	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear People's Deputies, Vasil Onopenko is right, and he has rightly pointed out to you that the bill is "cheese." It's a good idea, but the bill is totally "cheese" if you say so. And no matter what. It's going to be developed by a man or a man -- it doesn't matter. He's just raw. You know, I don't care who drafted the bill. I respectfully refer to the author of Grachev, who brought and praised God, who saw this problem that was absolutely wrong. There's an order from the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 27th, 88th, because we know who was then subject to this Presidency and then the complaints filed after the end of one year of legal force by a decision of the court or a decision of the higher order of the organ's refusal to resume work were not subject to review. This has to be undone, it's clear. But if we want the position of article 124 of the Constitution on the extension of the jurisdiction of the courts over all relations in the state, we have to give the citizen of Ukraine an alternative. It doesn't have this here, so we need to change to the 224th Labour Code -- once, and we need to adopt this Law, but only on the first reading. And in the end, as soon as I got a call from the city, from a town-type village called Kozin, where at 6 p.m. a village council session was set up to prevent a session, and you know that these people have risen up against the oligarchs of 154 hectares, the World of the Ways, that's where Victor Pinchuk and 118 hectares are standing. It's property of 154 and 118 hectares for 50 years in a lease. And this woman has arisen, and today she's not to be held a session where the referendum has been declared by the MPs to be distrustful by many who are not making their decisions. We're on our way to arrest her. People are good. I wrote a letter to Vasilyev, evidently he does not read them. Gennady Andriyovich, maybe you're watching TV, watching whether you ever listen to a radio, see if you're going to be shocked. There's another government coming. All those who go today are going to arrest an innocent person, arrest themselves, don't you understand? That's why I urge you, and I call on the High Council Committees not to let the oligarchs embalm our land, stand in the way. And here's why you're not helping me, the protectors of the Motherland that you don't have. So as a defender of the country, please, Ukraine, please don't waste Ukrainian land, but accept it only on the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u141	Yes, honourable colleagues, discussing the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Code, registration number 2598, has been completed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to accept it. Take down the vote, please. Kabmin's proposal for this. Take it off, please. A few words. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. These standards, which are proposed, are generally introduced and incorporated into the Labour Code, which was adopted in the first reading. There may still be a point in the Labour Code to write out these problems and not to enact a separate law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u142	Author, please. Gracheva's closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u143	Grachev, the Company faction. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to emphasize that the Labour Code, which was adopted on first reading in December this year, unfortunately, does not address this issue either. And we have made an appropriate proposal for second reading. But when it's adopted, we don't know. That's why life is going on now, people are turning around, these issues need to be addressed. As this law has not been considered in the Onopenko Committee, I support, let's say for second reading, let the Committee consider. Because the Sectoral Committee on Social Policy unanimously supported it both on first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, registration number 2598. Based on the base. Please vote. [[13:08:36]] For-183 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal. Hara. Please, the microphone. Well, let's just follow through, please don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u145	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is this proposal: we will return to this legislative proposal in the context of the Labour Code, which is preparing for second reading, most likely in October. Let us consider its adaptation in the light of the Committee's consideration of Vasily Vasilievich Onopenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u146	Onopenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, despite the criticism of this very norm, these amendments to the Labour Code. I think we're able to work on it if it's accepted as a base and not hindered. There is a wonderful idea, especially with regard to the time frame for bringing people to justice and protecting their rights. Together with both committees with your help, we will deal with and prepare for such balanced changes, and we will bring the Supreme Court to this work, the experts. So that we don't stop this process, believe me, we're interested in solving this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u148	Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u150	Cherniak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Since the problem itself is extremely acute, up - to - date, it must, of course, be solved. But since the decision proposed in the bill is not perfect, I propose that his bill be re-readed, processed normally and, and a month later, given again to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u152	I am voting for re-reading the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Labour Code, registration number 2598. [[13:11:03]] For 242 Decision taken, thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows, to the question of "Victory," that is, to the performances. Please state the names of the people on the board. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please state the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yes, Basil Onopenko has the floor. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder. Yes, Onopenek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u153	Please pass the word to Omelchenk Grigori Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u154	Gregory Omelchenko has the floor. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder. Set three minutes. Improperly established Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u155	Gregory Omelchenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Union of Ukrainian Officers, election block of Yulia Timoshenko. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! During the summer holidays, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor conducted another cultural and educational expedition called Soborna Ukraine-2004. We went to Kiev, Poltavska, Dnipropetrovska, Zaporzik, Kirovograd, Cherkaske, Hmelnitski, Cherniewski, and other areas, and held dozens of meetings with people. There was no meeting at which I could not ask about the trial of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, today's candidate for President Viktor Yanukovic, and how he, being convicted twice, could travel and even more sit down, do not prove to God, as people have said, the position of President of Ukraine. These questions were particularly raised by officers, for according to the Ukrainian Constitution, the President is also the Supreme Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I would like to remind you that, according to valid legislation, a person who has been convicted cannot even be assigned to the position of militiaman. Military officials and law enforcement officials have asked the question directly, and I quote literally their questions, "How can the Commander-in-Chief be a former hare? What should we do, officers, in a situation like this?" I'm the Colonel of the Security Service. Can you imagine the moral and psychological situation of the law enforcement officials who arrested and criminalized Yanukovich for committing violent crimes, and the court found him guilty twice to be guilty of depriving him of his will? I will remind you that Yanukovich personally confessed his guilt in committing crimes and did not press charges against the court. The very fact that Yanukovich was nominated for the presidency has already demoralized the work of law enforcement agencies. They doubted whether it was worth catching criminals today, since there could be future prime ministers and candidates for presidents. We officers, who have performed international duties at various times abroad, have gone through the hell of the Chernobyl disaster and know that it is an officer’s honor and loss of military brothers, even in a terrible dream, that the ministers of defense and internal affairs, the head of the Security Service and other leaders of the Ukrainian military forces will be assigned a former purse, which has not yet been carried out by military service. In recent months, media outlets have published information that Yanukovic was convicted of robbery or robbery for the first time, a second time for causing moderate bodily harm. And on both occasions he was sentenced to imprisonment in the form of imprisonment. After the execution, Janukovic again committed a serious crime: group rape, but he was redeemed from the victim, and the criminal case was closed. The publications also pointed out that Yanukovic organized a gang of bandits who were angry in Yenokiyovo, ripped out of the hands of women veterans of war and the work of a bag of three carbs, ripped out of the girls' ears a earring worth 10 carbs. Later, when he was a director of a car company, he was arrested for the theft of state property in a particularly large way. At that time, the Criminal Code provided for, among other things, the ultimate penalty of capital punishment. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u156	Thank you. Time's up, too bad. Eugene the Mountain of the "Our Ukraine" faction has a word. Anatoly Rahansky approached; he passed on his word to Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u157	Deputies! Dear voters! I have the commission of the Ukrainian national deputy Ivan Stepanovich Plush to read out his parliamentary request. The Montenegrins are known to have considerable recreational resources. Among them are hunting grounds. In the vast majority of these arrangements, local hunters’ and fishermen’s associations, forestry enterprises of various forms of property, were used. In recent times, however, there has been a special interest of businessmen, influential people in Kiev, in changing the users of hunting grounds to their advantage by creating and registering in the areas of nonprofit-based landowners. From the point of view of the preservation and reproduction of the animal world, the fight against poaching, the appearances of a more caring host under the current legislation are normal. That is why the Montenegrin District Council, by a decision of 15 June of this year, practically unanimously imposed a moratorium on the use of fishing arrangements. By this act of a legal and regulatory nature, the District Council has set up a commission to monitor the real state of affairs in these cases, to form competitive principles when they are passed on to more effective users. The commission began to work systematically, informing the population of the area. But the district government has already submitted a draft decision to review the next session of the district council to remove the moratorium and at the same time to re-use four hunting arrangements, one of which is located in the territory of my constituency. I and the district councilmen have tried to convince their colleagues in every way, the board and the head of the Melniczuk administration of the need for a full implementation of the previous decision, and once approved by the board of the regulatory base, they are civilized to consider all new submissions and to initiate the search for new owners. But the administrative pressure, the intimidation, even the persecution of individual deputies affected the will of the members of the district council and the majority of the votes of the moratoriums were removed. In doing so, it was not taken into account that article 59 of the Fifth Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government took effect on the date of their official publication, unless the Council had established a later date for the implementation of these decisions. The prosecutor of the Forest Region, who was involved in the session, did not respond in any way. Instead, it was during this particular session that the current legislation was severely violated before the presidential elections. That is why I am requesting the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to cancel the decision of the District Council to grant fishing opportunities to TOV. "Lisagroinvest," such as those admitted in violation of article 59, paragraph 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. Ivan Stepanovich Plush. Similar situations are widespread throughout Ukraine. The oligarchs want to rob her completely before they die, they have no idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u158	Thank you. The main thing is: Please let Rahansky pass on the word of Solomon. He'll be followed by Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u159	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Today this rostrum has already been discussed in a speech by the chairman of the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentina Matvieva, that at the initiative of one Mrs. or White or Black, I have not fully heard, but she is the Secretary of the Ternopil City Council of Ternopils, and at the same time represents the faction of "Our Ukraine" in this council, which is composed by the majority of the council. Last night a Fascist decree was adopted to prohibit the activities of the Communist Party of Ukraine within this council. What can we talk about if this "our Ukraine," God forbid, comes to power. I'm not talking about all of Ukraine anymore. I'm talking about Galicin as a whole. So I urge every honest person who likes or dislikes a communist, socialistic view to make the right conclusion of this and to oppose our Ukraine, its leaders, its leaders. That's the first one. The other one. Today, the government assures us that justice is about creating the same starting conditions for each of us to run our business. What blasphemy! On July 21, this year, the Deputy Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Sergey Doctor, announced the results of the 2003 press conference at UNIAN. bourgeois media have been overwhelmed by awe. In Ukraine, twice a year, the number of millionaires triples. Ukraine is 50 times ahead of Russia by the number of millionaires. And here's the data that I've summarized for this interesting process. In 2003, we had only 62 million, and we're going to think that's 100 percent. In 2001, 160 - 258 percent. In 2002, 336 - 210 percent compared to the previous year. In 2003 -- 850 -- compared to the previous year -- 253 percent. And in 2004, the forecast is 2.5 thousand fats. And where are they going? Of course in Donbas, in the capital of Kiev 325. In second place, Donbas is 150. In third place, Kharkiv is 70, and so on. But the smallest amount in Galicina is true. That is why those who have been removed from the state trough are angry, and they want to reach out just like their daughters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u160	Please, this is Novak, the Communist faction. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u161	Fifth constituency, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u162	Yeah, he's handing over Mironka. Please, Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u163	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots. Regrettably, this morning, during and after my statement, there was a very strong response from those forces in which the truth was spoken. One of these representatives of “Our Ukraine” ran to the rostrum to try to rip out the microphone or to do anything else is not clear. I think there are intelligent people in this faction who will make a comment to their faction member to act more tolerantly. But let's answer the main question: was I telling the truth or was I lying? I'm always telling the truth. That's why I'm elected twice. A communist who's really in opposition is elected to the Supreme Council. If we let a faction of Social Democrats vote today unlike other centrists for the law I proposed, it's true, I'm speaking now. Now, let's focus on what caused such an acute reaction in "Our Ukraine"? Isn't it true what capitalism is? Really. Is it not true that they are universal privatization? Really. Just talk to the same nigger or someone else, what percentage of electricity should be privatized. It's all right. And they're for privatization. Is it not true that they are against the economic and political union with Russia? Really. It is not true that by their actions, the capitalist focus they have been exerting since 1991, exerting pressure on the Supreme Council, on two presidents, has effectively brought down the economy twice, reducing the standard of living four times. It's true, it's true. And notice, right now, they're screaming like it's not true, but come on. It's true, thank God we agreed, it's self-criticism. So, note what is still ahead, once again, I stress that two oligarchy teams are nominating two candidates, although other candidates are known to be worthy and so on. Well, in my opinion, worthy, of course, of Peter Nikolaevich. Why? Because by the actions of his factions, both in life and in the districts where he was travelling, he was everywhere in favor of the people. But we're being promoted by these two candidates. The same Chernovicki blacked out the party specifically, the same candidate, but in the "Our Ukraine" oligarchy of Chernovski. Why? Yes, to him, it is the same as Janukovic, that Yushchenko, will remain a capitalist banker and will continue to rob people by means of this policy, dissipating benefits there and so forth. It's been a privilege to surf the porters. What kind of benefits? Compare what the oligarchists now have with those Partocrats, because they've got nothing to say, but they've raised what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Gurov, the "Democratic Initiatives, Peoples of the World" faction. Rudkowski's handing over the knife. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u165	Respectable radios, TV sets, respected grounders. Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. I have just come from the consumer convention that is now taking place in Kiev, where practically representatives of our country gathered under the slogan: "From a high quality of products to a high quality of life." And as a participant in this event, I would like to develop this idea a little bit. Actually, I'm speaking in a separate region on my favorite Krivbasse. Here are my electorates, the head of the Coroner's Hospital, blood transfusions have asked me to help solve the issue of financing the acquisition of laboratory equipment to test donor blood on HIV, hepatitis, and syphilis. The equipment available at the station is outdated and does not meet modern requirements. It works insufficiently and is not to be repaired. From the similar stations of the Dnipropetrov region, the Crevice is or is the oldest in this state. And that's in a powerful industrial region. where the most environmental and social situation in the area, or perhaps Ukraine, has caused such problems as drug abuse. Tuberculosis, Epidemic. I want to say that in just 8 months of this year Krivbas has put 622 million dollars into the state budget. Well, my constituents and my countrymen know Ukrainians too. In Bloody Rose, the prevalence of drug abuse has become a threat in recent years. There are now over 6,000 drug addicts, 75 drug addicts per 10,000 people. Which is twice that of the district and four times that of the Ukraine as a whole. According to law enforcement agencies, the actual number of drug addicts in Bloody Rose is 40,000. And what's the big deal! Over 500 people are diagnosed with drug abuse each year. often children who are horrendous and underage. The level of tuberculosis in Bloody Rose has exceeded the level of steam!Oh, my God! the welfare rate in 1999. That's why I'm stressing! Give the commission that the acquisition of modern equipment for the Crimson Blood Transfusion Station. It was also in. To this plan of action. published in the decree of the President of Ukraine, which states: "To undertake a set of measures to strengthen the material and technical base of specialized institutions and blood transfusion facilities and relevant units of health care institutions, as well as to implement modern technologies aimed at ensuring the safety of donor blood and its components." This is very important not only for Kriwbas but also for all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, Noshchenko, the Hard Ukraine faction, prepare the Levtsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u167	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, Sumska District, Deaf. Yesterday in this room, the political party's MP "Trug Ukraine" voted in favour of the amendment to article 206 of the Ukrainian Penal Code on the criminal liability of persons who unlawfully require the owners to count the funds that are being set up and enforced on a voluntary basis. We condemn these actions -- the actions of numerous funds involved in racketeering, school beatings, preschools, medical institutions, government executives. However, it is not only about foundations but about the existing system of enforcement of relevant valid legislation for operators, such as the high cost of administrative services provided by firefighters, energy, sanitation, security, and veterinary services. They're all monopolistic in society, by the way. Also, legitimately high public fees are paid for the services of state - owned organizations that perform government functions. Every reception in the district is not without high-paying complaints for services to the Bureau of Technical Inventory, Notary Office, Land Resources Departments, for example, 160th constituency, the estimated cost of services to the Bureau of Technical Inventory, a report-out of the register -- 200 bracelets, the processing of property documents -- 200 bracelets, the ownership of the property of the property -- 200 grevens. Land resources, state land right act in the city -- 232 bracelets, in the village -- 176 grevens, on the land -- also 176 grevens. Thus, the cost of filing documents for property rights under the inheritance of 500 dollars. In the country today, such documents are produced only in the case of reselling or reshaping of an inheritance. And yes, the earth is desolate, and the building is crumbling. Is that a large sum? For most of our citizens, yes. On the other hand, national MPs and the population have no information about where these costs go or whether the cost of services they do. I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to assign orders to the subordinate services: this is the State of Komongosp, the Ministry of Agriculture, Minfin, Minist, to analyze prices and give an answer. Another problem is half-buried buildings and abandoned land in my region. In other lands, heirs do not maintain the proper condition of the building, and weeds are used to plant the land. Believe me, I say without emotion: When you walk down the street, you see weeds, half - cats, and dogs. This is a matter of state importance, and it is necessary to regulate the right of the owner in the event of a prolonged failure to maintain the building properly and to establish a level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u168	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Yeah, I can't see Levcun. Matthew, the Communist faction. Microphone, please. From the moon, Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u169	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I ask you to pass the word to Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u170	Please, Puzakov. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u171	As in Ukraine, the new school year began with old problems. And that's what made the school's material and technical base very poor. And that's not surprising: what account is it going to be filled out when the state invests only four percent of GDP in education instead of 10 percent? Thus, computerization, which is so fashionable, is limited to words. The problem of today’s school is that of the staff. In the Kirovograd region, 1,780 teachers were dropped out of school last year, and about 500 teachers are missing this year. In a year, 13 school principals were released at will. [[in quotes]] This situation, Mr. Cremen, appears to have no demographic subtext. And that's what the minister thinks is normal. The new school year in many schools, both in Ukraine and in Kirovgrad, began in unrenovated classrooms, and the foodsheds are not ready for adoption, and the gymnasiums in many schools are also unrenovated. And this is the state of readiness of schools for the new school year in many areas of the area. And it's not the directors' fault, it's the state for which education is like a pain in the eye. True enough, both the President and the Prime Minister are worried about school. The president even envied the children of such a beautiful school. Now he was learning, as he was told, in a common locust. He just forgot what a year it was. In 13 years of independence, Mr. President, not one Soviet school has turned into a common barn. Regrettably, the politics of modern - day authorities in relation to education in Ukraine is not subject to a sober analysis. Unfortunately, in Ukraine, violently divided into rich and poor, the education system does not provide equal opportunities for people of different social status. Not long ago, the teacher put his whole soul into a student, a student, worked dryly -- "I give my heart to children." This was one of the main principles of Soviet pedagogicalism, where the teacher was not content with pennies, barbed - table bones, shameful bribes, and supplies. In today’s schools, however, knowledge is transformed into a commodity, and a teacher into a cheap labor force. And we, the Communists, will never accept this, we will continue to have a series of fights for free education, for a high level of education and education, for a decent salary to educational staff, for free textbooks and hot breakfasts for schoolchildren, a scholarship for students, not a lower subsistence minimum, as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko suggested in his program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Orzhachowski, the Communist faction. He'll be followed by the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u173	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, the electorate. In recent times, I have been able to visit many parts of Hersonland, where I have been convinced of the industriousness of fellow countrymen and the problems that keep them from living peacefully, to do good for the state, for their families. I'd like to talk to you about two of the issues I'm having today in the rostrum. The first relates to the protection of the maritime state border. For many years in the village of Horla, in Hersonian, there was a border crossing, then a post with a good material and technical base, military tradition. In recent times, however, someone has decided to open the border, devoting the activity of the designated section to nothing. The inhabitants of the village of Horla Kalanchik district, the military justly ask, are the existing authorities able to guarantee the integrity of the border, the security of the state. In Iraq, we fight for other people's interests, and for our own safety, we don't have enough money. As Ukrainian national deputy, a year ago, in favour of increasing the number of Ukrainian foreign troops, I was assured of the activity and development of this military structure. The above points to reflection. Perhaps one of the generals, the officials, liked the territory of the base -- should wait for it to be adopted. On this point, I would like to request a request from the Head of State of the Border Service of Lithuania to clarify the situation and prevent the embezzlement of state property, the stripping of a part of the Black Sea border. The other one. Much has been said about agricultural reforms in the countryside. As a result, the Ukrainian village is a complete ruin. Two presidents, Leonidas, have done the right thing by destroying the acquisition of many generations of people. As a result, we have deprived morale, a decline in the social sphere, and unemployment. Now there's nothing left for a peasant to answer to today's capitalist presidents, and those who are not. To tell the left - hand politicians, such as Peter Simonnka, because his preelection program has been understood by the disadvantaged people, it will enable those who run an honest business to farm. According to the Communist's firm belief, President Simonck's candidate should not be destroyed or taken over by enterprises, but rather rebuild them and build new ones. Our candidate for the nation’s prospects are seen in the rise from the ruins of the village, the ban on selling land, the cooperation of property, the lending of agricultural products, and the formation of a government order for cultivated produce. Each resident of the village will have the right not only to land but also to work in a state enterprise. Simonenko’s election will win most people in the state, otherwise it will be only a holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, Cloud, the microphone is out of place. Get ready for Boko. Cloud microphone by Stepan Ilkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u175	Please give the floor to Grigory Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u176	Thank you, Your Honor. The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the election block of Yulia Timoshenko, the Union of Ukrainian Officers. I will repeat myself for the logical conclusion of my speech. In recent months, media outlets have published information that Yanukovic was convicted of robbery or robbery for the first time, for the second time in terms of moderate bodily harm, and for both times he was sentenced to be deprived of his will. After the punishment, Yanukovic did not take the path of correction and again committed a serious gang rape, but was redeemed from the victim, and the criminal case was brought down on the brakes. The publications also pointed out that Yanukovic organized a gang of bandits who terrorized Anakiyeva and frightened people to enter their homes in the evenings. He ripped from the hands of women veterans of war and the work of a bag of three carbs, ripped out alive from the ears of girls a earring worth 10 carbs. Later, when Janukovic worked as the director of the auto industry, he was prosecuted for the theft of state property in a particularly large way. At that time, the Criminal Code provided for, among other things, the death penalty. But he was rescued from punishment by the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the former Soviet Union, Lieutenant General George Bank, under whom the Presidium of the Donetsk District Court, Bucimto, overturned the indictment and closed criminal cases. Press releases from the Cabinet of Ministers about the crime and other crimes committed by Yanukovic have further confused the situation around his criminal past. The biography, the autobiography of Yanukovic, was not clear. Yes, in a self-written autobiography by Janukovič on November 18, 2002, submitted by President Kuchma of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposing that he be appointed Prime Minister, Yanukovic himself wrote down. I quote: "In 1968 he was sentenced and sent to a colony for minors. In 1970, he was convicted of causing bodily harm to the average." In his autobiography, presented by Yanukovic as a candidate for the presidency of Ukraine for the CBC, he did not point out that he had been convicted twice before. Where is the truth? What has changed over the years? As a representative of the Ukrainian people in the Parliament of State, as well as every citizen and elector have the right to know the truth about Yanukovic's criminal history. I recall that under the Presidential Elections Act, Viktor Janukovic gave his personal written consent to publish his biographical information about himself, including his criminal history. I am speaking publicly from this rostrum to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and what I personally said to him when I gave a parliamentary address on this matter. If he doesn't officially give me a copy of the court's rulings and official information on his criminal history, I will officially refer to the Attorney General's Office for a criminal offence against Yanukovich for committing the crime provided for in article 351 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The union of Ukrainian officers said -- 10 seconds -- that we would do anything to prevent the former rabbit from being elected president.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u177	Yes, Boki gives the word to Barani, a faction of socialists. Prepare Balozy. The ballogy is passed on to Polishchuk. I'll get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u178	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear National Deputies! Our distinguished voters in Ukraine, as my colleagues have already noted, have opened up terror all over Ukraine against the leaders of opposition parties and especially in places. An example of this may be the Brusilovsky district of the Gitomir region, where the head of the district administration, Mr. Spakovič, has been terrorizing for four years and, as the election approaches, has moved into a more new, qualitative phase from his point of view, terrorizing the director of the Valley High School of Truth, Antonín Mikhailovna. It only terrorizes that she, the first secretary of the Regional Committee of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is a member of the District Council and that has a certain opinion that is different from Mr. Spakovič. This woman, who had built a two - story school in the village, was evicted from her apartment several times, then restored by the court. The woman was illegally harassed, the courts dismissed, illegally dismissed, and the courts reinstated her employment. The police recently broke into her apartment house in the night, demanding that political activity be curtailed. The reaction, accordingly, was not punished by the police. To make her unemployed, children from her school began to demand that their parents transfer her to other schools 12 miles [12 km] away so that she would not have children — she would have to close the school. My parents disagreed. He's constantly organizing complaints, and then he's checking them out. Ordered, ordered, and found a criminal case, that is, against this woman today, and the prosecutor's office is involved in the fight and the police. Why was a criminal case opened? That she has a set of kids in her class, let's say, not nine kids, but eight. And he said that the teachers had read the hours. And for that, last year, she over-paid 3,000 carbs all over the school. That's what Mr. Spackovich thinks. But according to the Ukrainian minister of education, according to his command, she still paid the teachers the money and did not pay it. But they open a criminal case, and three days later they publish and glamour today. I appeal to Attorney General Vasiliev: please reduce the brutal abuse of a woman. I appeal to Mr. President to immediately release Mr. Spakovich's head of administration as one who compromises all executive power in Ukraine, which compromises the presidency itself. I am addressing Prime Minister Janukovich: draw the right conclusions from this speech. Please consider my statement to be an official parliamentary request to the relevant structures that I have called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u179	The word is from the Polish National Deputy, "Our Ukraine" faction. Lebedivsky conveys the word of Kostinjuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u180	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Mikola Polishtuk, Victor Yushchenka block, Kiev, 214 constituency district. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected medical colleagues, respected educators! I am concerned about the increased social tension among health - care workers, which has been caused by the extremely low wages and the poor pension among medical professionals. Medical work is undervalued, the ambulance doctor gets paid 3-4 times less than the ambulance driver. In Kiev, 30-400 dollars is a doctor, and the ambulance driver is 1200-1300. The average salary for Kiev and Ukraine is only 44 percent of the average wage. If, in 2003, GDP grew by 4.5 per cent by 32 per cent, in 2004 only 26 per cent, with GDP rising by more than 13 per cent, according to the government's statement. So the wage should be doubled as a minimum. For most pensioners in the medical sector, the increase in the number of pensions is only 10 or 30. A 50-year-old surgeon gets a pension of 200-250 bucks. The government of Janukovič proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on pay of work and to exclude from the basics of health legislation sentences, consider just one sentence - article 77, paragraph (g), which provides for the establishment of medium- and post-priced health establishments for medical professionals at a level not lower than the average wage in industry, to exclude 77 articles for medical professionals and article 57 for education. This is the social orientation of the Yanukovic government. This orientation was formed immediately after in 2003, when members of the people had an impact on the budget and could wage an increase in wages and in 2004, when the parliamentary-government coalition with the Yanukovich government cancelled the minimum wage from 237 to 205. I can assure you that the average wages of health care professionals should be higher than in industry, and that they should meet their qualifications and the level of responsibility to society. Pensions should be recalculated from the average level in the industry, taking into account the qualifications. This is Victor Yushchenk's position, and he will perform it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u181	The word is Kostinuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u182	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block, Bogdan Kostinyuk Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention on how the Communists are aggressively attacking our Ukraine today? And why did their lexicon end up with terms like "Kuchma", "Janukovich". And you will understand who they are serving today, and for whose money their leader is traveling on a Mercedes. But that's not what I'm talking about. In these days, 19 years have passed since the death of the Ukrainian poet Vasil Stus. The death of an unbreakable fighter in the camp at the time when the Gorbakov reconstruction began, when the Soviet Empire’s superior leadership began to crack, widely claimed that democracy, human rights, and the conditions for the various, equal development of the individual. True, democracy was so far away that it finally came to us today. The situation that took place in the late 1980s is very often compared to our day. And indeed, the present power in its decisions and actions is very much like the power of an empire of evil, the power of a communist regime. Evidently, first of all, many powerful men have kept their chairs behind them ever since. The current authorities claim that there has been no economic growth in Ukraine, and 7 million Ukrainians are forced to make a living in Italy, Portugal, Greece, and Spain. The media almost reported that the regional governors of the real regime were involved in the construction of rural schools and in the donation of computer classes. By the way, government officials with modest wages may present whole computer classes of questions to the Attorney General’s Office. During their vacation, teachers forcely collect signatures for a candidate for presidential office. What everyone knows except the head of the electoral company of the acting prime minister. Because it's convenient. The persecutions of the Clan's criminal regime are evidence of both signs and generalities, first of all, to those who have "declared themselves" in violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens and their personal devotion to the chief chancellor of the state. Who, as a lawyer in his own time, demanded punishment for his subordinate, is the case against Basil Stus. The claim that power today is strong and never, in other words, is unfaithful. The power of power is like a good football arbitrator or less noticeable, making it easier for players to realize their sports skills. We have literally everything with authority and the highest representatives, but there is no greater bread or conditions for free development. The current regime remains to be managed recently. The autumn will of the Ukrainian people will be the beginning of a strong, democratic Ukraine that will become a worthy monument to the murder of Stus, brutally destroyed in the Viacheslav Cnervoll accident and millions of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u183	Thank you. But Simonek doesn't have any Mercedes. Please, Kosov, our Ukraine faction. Prepare Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u184	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." First of all, I have a huge desire to address those who listen to this broadcast to our fellow countrymen, with the words: dear Ukrainians, let's think about how disastrously in history nothing really changes. Two thousand years ago, when the bloody dictator of Rome, Emperor Nero, wanted to deal with the opposition at the time, he set Rome on fire -- and turned it on his Christian opponents, because they said they were carrying out their services with candles lit, from which Rome itself burned. And so throughout history: when Hitler wanted to deal with democracy back then, he set Reichstag on fire; when Stalin had to run a reading in the party and start a bloody terror, he killed the loved one and the people, and the party Sergio Mironovich Kirov. And so many examples in history. So if you compare this typology to our day, you see what's going on: it's free, give me, even though it's a tragic explosion in the Trieste market. But three days later, a statement from the President's administration comes out: the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Security Service -- that the opposition seems to be preparing for terrorist acts to destabilize a stable environment in our society. When it was discovered that the perpetrators of the attack were not representatives of the Ukrainian People’s Party, but representatives of a completely different party that, by the way, was preparing a chain provocation yesterday, an explosion occurred in the house where the deputy director of this trinity market lived to confuse the traces. A typical phenomenon is now the "cassettes" with trailers filled with grain. Unfortunately, one such “camel” on March 25, 1999, obstructed the road of Viacheslav Cnervol, which ended in tragedy. On the Hersonian route, the kamaz was the exact same way he wanted to obstruct Victor Yushchenk's road. We seem to be dealing with those whom Jacob called in his day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u185	The word is Lukyanenko, a faction of the Block of Timoshenko. To be prepared, the Blackman passes the word Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u186	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I am addressing the repressive Russian Communist Empire, I am addressing Ukrainian citizens, the oligarchic majority of September 7th this year voted against the day-to-day sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the bill on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine. Prokuchmö-Janukovichovian authorities once again showed their anti-Ukrainian essence. The Law on Rehabilitation of 1990 is out of date, and since 1994, we have been trying in vain to bring this law into line with the new living conditions. The 1990 Law was passed when Ukraine was a colony of the Moscow Empire. The struggle against the empire, for Ukraine’s independence, was considered a crime, and it did not rehabilitate those prominent sons and daughters of Ukraine who fought with weapons in their hands against the bloody Communist dictatorship. After the declaration of independence, the attitude of the invaders toward the elements of the armed resistance has not changed, indicating that most of the Supreme Council are heirs, not of our prophet Shevchenk, but of Benkendorf’s royal gendarme. Ukrainian entrepreneurs are Ukrainian only territorially, not ideally. Because Ukrainian language and culture are despised, supported by clan power, and for its continuation, the exploitation of our people is sought instead of Kuchma as President of the Donetsk clan Janukovic. For 13 years, Ukraine had no Ukrainian patriotic parliament, had no patriotic government. We live under the power of an idea of strangers. This is a humiliation of the national dignity of the Ukrainians. I urge you to end this power and elect the president of the patriotic forces of Victor Yushchenk. Ukraine is given a chance to change our previous development into a new development. So far, we have destroyed Ukraine, not us, but the oligarchy forces. Now the people have a chance to change this power on October 31st, to choose a patriotic president. In 2006, a patriotic parliament was elected. The first patriotic parliament in the history of Ukraine and finally to take the path of building Ukraine, restoring our culture, our spirituality, and our transformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u187	The word is Manchulenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u188	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Vitor Yushchenka Block. A letter from the head of the Ukrainian People's Party of the Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Kostenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the protection of the honour, dignity and reputation of the Ukrainian People's Party and the denial of misinformation by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Mr. Minister, starting on August 27 from the submission of senior officials to the Ministry of Internal Affairs by individual media, provocative speculations about the alleged involvement of members of the Ukrainian People's Party in the organization of explosions in the Trieste market took place on August 20th. The public dissemination of this information is aimed at undermining the authority of the Ukrainian People's Party in our country and abroad, and demeans the honour and dignity of its members, causing fair indignation not only to party activists but also to all honest and orderly citizens of Ukraine. These provocative fantasies continue to be commented on. In this regard, you are required to take immediate action to stop the misinformation of the public caused by the illegal actions of the high officials of the ministry under your authority. The Ukrainian People's Party operates within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. In his work, he denies violent methods and advocates an evolutionary way of developing society. We reject extreme political views, intolerance and violence in any form. With a statement of August 28, UNODC condemned the organizers and perpetrators of explosions in the Trinity market, expressed its sympathy for the family and loved ones as a result of this act of cruelty, and firmly refrained from the organization’s involvement and the execution of the reported explosions. We believe that crime must be investigated as soon as possible, and criminals must be punished according to the law. The UNODC has categorically stated that a person who, according to the IMF's information, is detained as a suspect in the commission of the alleged crime, with the alleged ticket of a member of the UNODC, is not a member of our party, has failed to form such a membership in accordance with the UNODC statute and is not registered in any party's centre. In connection with the talk, the Ukrainian People’s Party demands that you do the following in particular. First. To convene a press conference on 28 August by the Department of Public Affairs and the Ministry of Public Affairs, and to announce an official apology to the Ukrainian People's Party for the distribution of Michael Kornienk, Alexander Milenin and Peter Opanasenko of unreliable information about the alleged involvement of the members of the NGO in the organization and the explosions in the Trinity market. Next. Ensure that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, whose officials distributed the information that was not reliable on the basis of article 49 of the Information Act of October 2, voluntarily compensated the Ukrainian People’s Party for the sum of three million dollars that the Ukrainian People’s Party would have to use to neutralize the damage caused by the illegal actions of high officials of the Ministry. Freed one of the government officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs from their positions of office, who distributed unreliable information. This is true again of Cornelius, Opanasenka, and Milenina. The misinformation won't go away. Victory will follow us. Victor Yushchenko will be president.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u189	The word is School, the faction of Tymoshenko. The cook passed the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u190	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, I would also like to stop at that precedent that took place yesterday. So the attempt of today's power, I'll stress, to organize today's power to organize the fascist Sabbath, which was made under the walls of the Asold Church, on the Asold grave, in a holy place for every Ukrainian. I am speaking to the ministers of this church, by the way. Please redecorate or at least clean up where they were going. Because they were the scum of society who went to serve today’s authority, for only such scum of society today are the authorities being used. I want to talk to the students separately, who, by the way, I'm going to tell you that you've been tricked by something, because it's been allocated to every student on Bank Street for $10 per person who comes. You've only been paid 15 bucks. Where's the rest? You go to Kovalenko and take the rest. I'm just calling on you to lose, you don't get paid. Next. What I'm saying is that the authorities have really blinded the fear of the eyes. Who do you finance? Remember, you were trying to finance Hitler and his party. What happened in Germany? Who are you funding now? Have you no common sense at all? In particular, I would like to address one young deputy prime minister, young and old, and my political presence in the Ukrainian government. He made a personal phone call to me through his secretary, right, and then he explained. The phone, but did you figure out where to find this Kovalenko? Why? Is it to go to the movies with him? I think for some other reason he was looking for him. And specifically, remember, respectable voters, respected Ukrainians: no one in this country except today's power, and a fascist right is not to be called, because the fascist idea envisions the absoluteization of the state, the absoluteization of power, what is happening now: the power now finances itself, feeds itself, creates itself, and chooses itself without asking the people. They also want to steal this right of choice from the people. And that's why he's making provocations. A provocative structure that screams xenophobic slogans and tries to support Yushchenk in the same line. He needs such help as a dog’s fifth leg, believe me. And your slippery powers will never -- never, I'll stress -- have no impact on the will of the electorate, but this can affect the political spectrum of Ukraine. Don't mold it in negativity. And in conclusion, you know, a lot of people said that it's, like, the UNA, some strong structure, it's just that there's some scum left there, all normal people have long gone into the public organization that I run. But then even yesterday, two national MPs took out the most expensive thing they had -- their flags and their symbols, their SS shirts. All your time is up, you have no flags, no literature, no symbols, nothing, no flag stolen, you just have to stay, you have to have these heads of structure, just one thing: if you have the honour to shoot, if you don't have that honor, you drown.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u191	Karmazin, the faction of Ukraine, has to prepare for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u192	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I would like to turn to this high court and ask that you consider this as a request to the law enforcement agencies. First of all, the fact that I spoke about taking custody of a Cosinian city's head now was complemented by the shameful actions of prosecutors: a sick woman, a mother of children, taken into handcuffs, prevented by a doctor. Mr. Vasiliev, will your D.A. continue to violate such brutal laws. I'm addressing you on this point, and I'm addressing you on urgent measures to stop the sale in private hands of the property of the territorial community of Odessa's hero city. Because there the Odessa City Council, the so-called 24th call, has made a lot of decisions that make the situation worse for Ukrainian citizens who hand out Ukrainian land into foreign hands. By ignoring the situation in Ukraine with tuberculosis, I will remind you that the incidence of tuberculosis in Ukraine has increased more than twice, and the mortality rate has tripled. The Ministry of Health has eliminated 52 tubsanatoriums in 11 years, shortening 7,200 dispensary beds; sold, closed, leased 40 antituberculosis sanatoriums and 10,000 sanatorium beds. Ignoring this situation, in violation of article 49 of the Constitution, article 73 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and the Law on the Prevention of TB Diseases, according to which the existing system of health institutions cannot be reduced, and the land of health cannot be passed on to enterprises that are not compatible with the protection of the natural healing properties of these lands, the Odessa City Council, in the form of reconstruction of buildings and buildings, sold part of the territory of health institutions, the anti-tuberculosis sanatorium "Arcadia", located on the French Boulevard, 40 private society "Bereg buildinvest" to build a trading complex with commercial and office facilities. That's what happens all the time. Another decision to sell 9.70 acres [9.70 ha] of coastal and protection strip land was taken by this council, which is set up by many years of planting, is also a zone of marine sanitation. And they gave it to the Ukrainian Mechanics. So they took over the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it takes permission from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They broke the Water Code. And to the end. What's going on? The Justice Party of the Donetsk Region held its conference and joined the Party of Fatherland's Defenders by ceasing its existence and supporting Victor Yushchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u193	The word is Kirilczuk, a faction of the Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u194	Eugene Kirilchuk, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" party. I am in the hands of the Volin County Council deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue of agricultural production. The year of agriculture was announced by President Kuchma. And this blasphemy is felt by all Ukrainian peasants today. After declaring the government to pay 800 dollars for the wheat of the 3rd class. So what's actually going on? Today, all the wheat that even state enterprises receive is paid 350 - 400 dollars. They're translating it into the 5th, 6th grade, and they're in love with the ones who don't have the numbers!Oh, my God!.... And so today, there's a situation that exactly repeats last year's situation in the grain market, resulting in peasants getting even less money for their work than last year, which is not enough to pay back the cost, but for physical survival. And that was as much language as Yanukovich and his Cabinet of Ministers were thinking of the peasants! This, once again, is blasphemy. And that's exactly what it says on the portraits, "Trustful. Righteous. Patriot. Leader," the exact opposite is important. And that's why all over Ukraine with these thousands of portraits, there are police posts to protect the portrait from the anger, from the injustice that the inhabitants themselves say. The police are also cursing these portraits, for in the night their mosquitoes eat, and they themselves are not happy that they have fallen into this service. How can it be said today that so much has been done by this government when all the modest wage increases, all the increases in low-income pensions don't even bring back half the costs that people spend on rising prices. Bread, "stabled" fuel, fuel prices, double mineral fertilizer, double metal, that's completely affected the rest of the price -- no one's underlining this price increase. [[in quotes]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u195	The word is "Shurma," the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Instead of yourself. Dasutin, Zimina, Kendzior, Silent, there's no Weak. They're gone. Next Storm. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u196	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I would like to turn to the radio audience, like all previous speakers, and obviously focus on the fact that today's parliamentary rostrum, regardless of all the warnings, will be the source of information that will try to convey to the various political parties for the purpose of agitation or contradiction for their candidates. The parliamentary faction of the Social Democrats considers it necessary to recognize the special character and therefore the special significance of the sixth session. [[United]] There is no doubt that the election process will affect the work of this session. Parliament will only accept this influence as an objective reality or as a dominant of its existence, depending solely on the will of the political forces represented in Parliament. Today, it is up to the national MPs to decide whether the key tasks ahead of the session can be solved by Parliament. The key tasks of the Joint Social Democrats are primarily the budgetary process. The recognition by the national deputies of all the responsibilities that lie on each of them in working on the main financial document of the State for 2005 will guarantee its reality and hence its effectiveness. It is also clear that the sixth session will become a rubicon in political reform. Whether we complete this process properly depends once again on the MPs' recognition of the measure of responsibility to their own people, their concentration rather than on political battalions, but on their work. These key tasks form the basis of the faction’s priorities during the sixth session. So the SDPU(o) supports all constructive steps towards building a system of government on the basis of the principle of political responsibility, and so on making the necessary changes to the Constitution. We are confident that our position is shared by the political forces that are set up to build Ukrainian statehood. At the same time, we are concerned about the efforts of individual political forces to curb the process of mature political reforms, their promise of blocking parliament. As a priority, the faction certainly considers the work on the 2005 budget. The faction of Social Democrats is a consistent proponent of the position on the primacy of Parliament's consideration of socio-economic issues, because the long-awaited and unfulfilled expectations of voters inevitably turn into social apathy. [[United]] We consider the focus of our work to be a priority on bills that can actually improve the status of the people and increase their social protection. Among them are projects for the introduction of compulsory public social health insurance. And it's a pleasure that Parliament supported the Teachers Payout Act yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u197	Mironka's microphone, a replica, and we're done. You didn't have to mention it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u198	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Dear compatriots, today have repeatedly lied to the Communist Party, leader Simonenko, primarily because two oligarchic groups seeking to hold their representatives Yushchenka and Yanuković in the Presidents see the main danger in Simonenko. Bed one, Mercedes. He's not on his Mercedes, not even on Mercedes, but on a car that's provided by the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Such a machine is available to all deputies. Second. Lie that the communists don't criticize Yanukovic. Today, in my statement, I have repeatedly criticized Yanuković, his position and so on. And what, there were no people in the hall who said that or lied knowingly? In addition, Communists do not benefit from what they say, Yanukovič. We have our own candidate, a worthy, true popular candidate for the Presidents, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, in whom we are confident that he will not fail, he will not betray the people, he will express the interests of the people. That is why we, and in particular, always stress and speak only the truth, have fought and fought to defeat Simonenko, for he has a programme of withdrawals from the crisis that will ensure both the recovery of the economy and the improvement of the lives of the people. People, I hope they understand who's right in this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-10-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! Don't get excited! Don't be alarmed. I'm making a point. Cars are fixed in the Supreme Council, not by all national deputies, but only by factions and committees. Fellow citizens, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups next week. September 11th. I apologize, September 14th is the morning session of the Government of Ukraine "On the Status of Reform and Legislative Security of the Law Enforcement Authorities in Ukraine". And the second issue on Government Day about Ukraine’s new directions for cooperation with the European Union in connection with the enlargement of the European Union. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on September 21st.
