ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:16]] A total of 439 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Bartholomewovich. Let's welcome Anatoly Bartholomew and wish him well, especially the Jubilee of Anatolia Bartholomewovich today. Dear colleagues, today in line with Rule 2.5. 2, we have 45 minutes on Wednesday for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals and announcements of requests, statements, messages. Let me remind you that according to the decision taken, today we are working full-time until 7:00 p.m. I would like representatives of the MPs and groups to submit their statements, while I announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: ZARI KATUSHA to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. I remind you, it takes 150 votes. [[10:05:48]] For-136 Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the destruction of the Chinese military aircraft named John Bokhon. [[KUZMUK, GRIGOROVIC, GErasIMOV, Semenyuk]] I'd like to vote in favour of the request, please. [[10:06:17]] For 283 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:38]] For 289 Decision taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 92, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, "Faction of Communists - 54, "Deminiciates" - 16, "Deminiciates" - 20, "Trudova Ukraine" - 25, National Agrarian Party - 6, "SPU - 18, "Timoshenko" - 18, "Soyuz" - 4, "NDP and PPU - 12, "Centre" - 13, "Affective - 8. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the violation by the Ukrainian Security Service of article 19, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy and articles 2, 3, 25 of the Ukrainian Act on the Intelligence Authorities of Ukraine. Roman ZVARIČA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the activities of the State Enterprise “Electronic Administration of Ukraine”. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the language legislation of the National Academy of Law, Jaroslav Wisely, in the city of Kharkiv. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the liquidation of the emergency housing situation in the cities of Kirovograd. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-response to the President of Ukraine for which it was commissioned to address and address the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for appropriate response. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the housing of citizens who had suffered the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Sergey BURJAKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the construction of social objects in the area adjacent to the Hmělní nuclear power plant. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to protect the population socio-economically, which resides in the area around the Zaporez nuclear power plant. THE Prime Minister of Ukraine, Leonidas, on the settlement of pensions to civil servants. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of an accident on the watershed dam of the city of Kyrovgrad. Valery GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inter-budget relations between the State budget and the budget of the city of Feodosia. Mr. Alexander YENA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financial support for the development of the military system. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient funding from the State Health Budget of Ukraine in the Zaporozhye region in 2003-2004. Jaroslav SUCHI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the practice of implementing the Ukrainian Act on the circulation in Ukraine of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their analogues and precursors. Anatolia KLIMINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the sinking of private sector buildings in the Amur-Lowered region of Dnipropetrovska. Fedora SPIGA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of cultural heritage objects in the territory of Prilutsky, Ichnyan and Srebnyan regions of the Chernigiv region. Alexander EDINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the recognition at the national level of the territory of the Kirovograd district as one that has experienced significant radiation and technological pollution. Leonidas GADIA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of service to the population of the city of Dnipropetrovsk. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the voters of the 35th constituency for the repair of roads in the villages of the Nicosia region and the remote microregions of the city of Marganza. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory gasification of Ukraine’s rural areas. Anatoly of DOMANS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the supply of medicines for the treatment of children in the city of Žitomir and the area. Mr. Alexander EDINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the development of rural networks in the Kirovograd region. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for capital repair and maintenance of the material and technical base of the schools of the Kirovograd region. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the publication of a list of socially significant publications in 2003, funded by the State budget and the formation of the Ukraine's single national stand for participation in international fairs. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminal purposes of the Volin Regional Administration, for the power structures of the area to neutralize opposition political parties and for the media during the presidential elections. [[BONDAR, HOT, KYRILCHUCK, WEAK]] Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gravity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine's investigation into the fact that the funds of the Chernobyl Foundation were being stolen in 1999 from the All-U.S. Public Organization Union of Chernobyl. MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the medical process and labour discipline by the head of the Department of the Mučaków Central District Hospital of Brizhka. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the destruction of the Chinese military leader John Bokhon. [[KUZMUK, GRIGOROVIC, GErasIMOV, Semenyuk]] Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on sources of funding for the charitable activities of the President of Ukraine, the last example being the wide-ranging donation of a cruise ship to the International Children's Centre “Artek”, which is subordinated to the State Administration of the President's Administration. The U.S. Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the purpose of establishing a State commission to verify the facts of political corruption in the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, which was shown in the award of the head of the territorial election commission in the election of the mayor of Mukacheva Zakarpatska District of Jurya Peresti by the Order “For merit” of the third stage, which is involved in the falsification of elections. Roman ZVARIČA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers to comply with the bill of approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Ukraine’s international agreements. MICHELLE TO THE U.S. MINISTER’S OFFICE TO SIMPLIFIATE THE PROCESS FOR THE 2004 BREAKDOWN OF WOODS IN CERTAIN PRODUCTS AT THE EXPENSES OF THE GOVERNMENTAL BUDGET. SLABENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the improper execution of targeted programmes in the Volin region in 2003. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOVA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District State Administration, on the legal rules for the cancellation of insurance contributions to the General Government Social Insurance Fund in the event of unemployment in connection with force majeure. First Deputy Prime Minister, Finance Minister of Ukraine, group of National Deputies on the inadequate provision of insulin diabetes for the budget allocated to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health for 2004. [[SHEVCHUK, CRUCK, PAULK, AND OTHERS Total 8 deputies]] The aunts SOUND to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation and distribution of funds to address the current challenges of agricultural production and the social problems of the village in 2004. John STATION to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds to the Open Shareholders Association “Ternopillaspecsmontage” for the compensation of their own expenses incurred as the subject of farming for the construction of socio-cultural objects in the village during the 1995–2001 years in accordance with the Ukrainian Act “On the priority of social development of the village and the agro-industry complex in the national economy”. SLABENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, concerning the non-payment of compensation for the payment of benefits in the transport of passengers to the Volodymyr-Volinz Joint Undertaking 10707 Volinsk Region. Mr. Alexander Burjak to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Tobacco, on the need to allocate funds to mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of author-humanist Mikli Ostrowski. Mr. Gregory Dashutin to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Tobacco, on the basis of the Government's efforts to improve the language culture in Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on computerization of the public education school I-II, grade 3, Taras Shevchenka, the city of Bila Church of the Kyiv region. Larissa POLACO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of military personnel with housing. Mr. Stanislav STRECK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to protest a letter from the Ukrainian State Customs Service, which is not in conformity with the legislation in force. The Gennady of Stanishki to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the exceedance of official authority by the authorities and tax officers of the Zaporozhye region. Mr Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the legality of the termination of the lease in the city of Lviv with limited liability “Edition of “Galic Contracts”. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification and elimination of the exploitation of children, the improper performance of the duties relating to the protection of life and the health of children, the abuse of power, the excess of official powers, the theft of state property on a large scale, the obstruction of the legitimate activity of professional associations by the Director of the Smilian Children's Home of Serbia. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the misconduct of the Kobelian District Department of Internal Affairs in relation to the arrested Bondarenko. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the inappropriate reaction to the previous appeal concerning the city’s President, Vlasenko. MIKOLI KULČINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of employees of the Poltava District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine with regard to the crime of kidnapping money from the account of Melnik Larissa. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the obstacle to the enjoyment by Ukrainian citizens of the constitutional right to housing by the Odessa city head Bodelan. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the irregular criteria for the distribution and direction of the use of subsidies to the areas, in accordance with the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of April 19, 2004, Nos. 109 and 110. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the transfer to the property of a closed-circuit stock company of the sports complex of the Youth Sports School. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the limitation of the rights of war veterans and participants in hostilities, war invalids, labour pensioners and Chernobyl disaster liquidators from the Odessa city head. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund, Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the Supreme Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine on the use of abuse of office, the purposeless use of budgetary funds and the violation of the constitutional right of employees to pay for the work of officials of the State Enterprise Hotel “Ukraine”, which is on the balance sheet of the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to point out that there's no balance sheet on this hotel, this is State Administration. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the status of criminal investigation on the basis of the signs of crime provided for in article 146 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code for the kidnapping of a citizen of Lactionova. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the robbery attack on the judge of the military court of Dnipropetrov's garrison of Kulikov. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unsatisfying results of the examination by the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine of the fact that the funds for the “Restoration of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster” programme of the 2003 State Budget for Kiev and the obstacles to the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy in determining the conditions for the use of these funds. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the construction of auto-fuelling stations in forest parks and residential areas of Cherkasa. Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the dissatisfaction of the reply to the parliamentary request for a violation of the criminal case against the head of the Regional Electoral Commission, Mr. Jury Peretti, for misdeclaration of the results of the elections, vote count and floor of the electoral documents under article 158 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. MIKOLI POLICHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to pay dividends to shareholders of the Žitomir Combine of Bread Products. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Directorate-General for Combating Organized Crime in relation to the unlawful involvement of a citizen of Doubev in administrative responsibility, and the evil facts of the abuse of office by law enforcement officials. JURY OF THE ORBS to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms in the process of criminalizing the Borispilla tax administration of the Small and Medium Business Party of Sweden. Anatolia Seminoga to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to carry out a verification of the facts of fraud mentioned by a citizen in Dolin. Valentina Seminyuk to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the failure to implement the decision of the Yellow District State Administration of Kiev to establish the status of a participant in the Great Homeland War of the Galchin Hope. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the issue of the transfer to the property of the territorial community of the city of Kirovgrad of the residence of military personnel. Anatolia Rachánské to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying response to the results of the parliamentary inquiry into Iluchina and Mamchure’s complaint. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the inclusion of debt in teachers’ pensions. GENNAY, U.S. Minister of Agrarian Politics, for the purpose of dedicating to the Berestovec Economic Society the budget for the mining and plastering of land. SLABENKA to Ukraine’s Minister of Agrarian Politics for the payment of payments for the surrendered young cattle in the Volin region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the provision of economic interests and social protection for social workers and the resolution of issues arising from the implementation of land reform. Petra SABASUKA and Sergia SOVOLEVA to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the legality of bus arrest with activists of “Our Ukraine” and on the attempt to remove the newspaper “Yes” from the National Deputy of Ukraine by employees of foreign law enforcement agencies. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the purchase of a “Quick Aid” car for the district of Sniguriv district of Mikolaiiv. Valentina Seminyuk to the Minister of Economics and European Integration for dissatisfaction with the ministry's response to the situation surrounding the bankruptcy of the open stock company Chaplin Repair and Transportation Company of the Herson region. Ms. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to eradicate drug trafficking in the Caribbean region of Mikolayeva. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the closure of the maternity ward of the Krolewetsky District Hospital in Sumské district. Valeria ASADCHEVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee for Construction and Architecture, Head of the Kiev City State Administration, Prosecutor of Kiev City for the observance of State standards in the modern city of Kiev. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the purpose of establishing justice in respect of the social benefits of the Swat Nenko family living in the village of Shevchenkov of the district of Odessa. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the support of law enforcement authorities in the fight against organized crime in Kiev. [[BUIKO, NOSENIKO, BONDARCHUK]] Petra SABASUKA and Sergia SOVOLEVA to the Ukrainian Security Service for the installation of the owner of the BMW No. AR 1111 MI machine, as well as for the installation of persons in the militia form that were in it and the possibility of a telephone call from their mobile phones for the explosive device on buses to the operational part of the Zaporozhye Home Office. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the imperfect work of the judicial branch of power in Ukraine. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for Social and Legal Protection of Citizens Working Under Harmful Conditions. Vassila Gladys to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources for the Establishment of Landowners in Rural and Rural Councils. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration regarding the violation of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” by the civil servants of the Montenegrin region. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the head of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors on the purposeless use of budget funds by the Ishmael City Head. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities for the purpose of turning Fedoseieva's citizen to raise the prices for water use in the town of Balakley Kharkiv district. Alexander KUZMUKA to the head of Ukraine’s Department of State for Retirement to the former head of the Lenin District Council of Mikolayeva. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast on the investigation of the circumstances of the attack and the beating up of an assistant consultant to the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Mr. Mikoli KULCINSKI to the Council of Judges of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine regarding the verification of compliance with the oaths of the judges of the District Court of Poltava, Strukovim and Burbak, as well as the actions of the Council of Judges of the Poltava region. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the capital repair of educational, cultural and medical facilities in the Tachiv region of Zakarpat. Ms Markus to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to comply with Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 09.03. In 2001, number 170, President of Ukraine's mission, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, orders of the Cabinet of Ministers dated 07.09.2002 and paragraphs 15, 17 of the decisions of the Government Commission on the elimination of the effects of natural disasters since 13.09. In 2002 and 20.12.2002, for the release during 2002-2003 of 4.8 million bracelets for the restoration of the shores and clearing of the River Tereswa in the village of Ganichi Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Victor PINCHUKA to the head of the Dnipropetrov district government regarding the need to take urgent measures to create adequate housing conditions for residents of the Jalova residential area of the Dnipropetrov district of Dnipropetrov. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Ukrainian Minister of Health concerning the problems of pension insurance for health workers. Anatholic to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the allocation of a car with manual control of Panasuk. John YVANCHO to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for gross violations and abuses by the entrepreneurial structures of the Zakartat district in the form of cooking and buying up wood. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delaying the verification by law enforcement authorities of the Office of the Office of Officials of the Watt Cologne Cologne. NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE TO THE First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Kremen, on the underfunding of the preschool education system in the city of Lanovka Ternopil district. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the arguments presented in the information letter of 19.05. In 2004, he was appointed Attorney General of Ukraine. Boris TARASJUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the head of the consumer association "Kalitian" and the neglect of the rights of consumer rationers. Dear colleagues, the requests that have come from the Secretariat and directly from you have been made. All the questions came from the Secretariat, which is organized, 90, and the others I couldn't count. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 27, Communist faction - 16, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 1, "The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 1, "The Political Party of Hard Ukraine" - 33, "The People's Agricultural Party - 1, "The Socialist Party - 3, "The House of July of Timoshenko - 3, "The Union" - 1, "The NDP faction and industrialists and entrepreneurs - 1, "Centre" - 3. [[united]] Only 90. Others came directly from the deputies, so I can't give you general information. I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues to make inquiries through the Secretariat. Let's move on to the performances. From the Assadchev procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u2	Thank you. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on 14 May, a request was sent to the President of Ukraine for more than six months from the head of the administrative court. We didn't get any answers to that question. I'd like you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to take this under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u3	I ask the Secretariat to consider this question. If you need to prepare a re-examination to the President. Borszewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u4	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Dnepropetrovska oblast. Vladimir Nikolaevich! The Dnepropetrovsk Region is now alarmed that, after holding an illegal assembly, representatives of the Kyiv organization “Ukr.prom” are trying to use OMONA to seize the Dnepromlyn enterprise. I ask that the Minister of the Interior be invited to the Hall and report on why the internal affairs units are involved and what their role is in this disgraceful situation. I also ask that representatives of the Public Paper Fund be invited to report that a whole package of shares had been stolen from the labour force. I'm also asking you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u5	I ask you, Your Honor, with the Secretariat to prepare an urgent request for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and we will send it now. Zara Katusheva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u6	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you very much to come back to the request. The MPs simply failed to respond. There was a war veteran there for many years, just in Scottish, inhuman conditions, I was. For many years now, I've been fighting at every level and I can't reach it. Please re-apply to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u7	I'm asking the Secretariat to return my requests, and then I'm going to ask them, and I've already submitted them to the Secretariat, and we're going to return them, and we're going to put them on your proposal. Dear colleagues! Let us move on to presentations from MPs and groups with statements, messages, and information. Mikola Tomenko has a word from the faction "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Bandurca.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u8	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear radio listeners! respected TV viewers! On behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine" I wanted to draw attention to the dangerous trend that has become the norm of the current power of Kuchma, Yanukovich, Medvedczuk, and it relates to the organization of systemic provocations on international soil. You have recently witnessed how one or more UNA organizations under the march of the Fascist shire and in the use of fascist symbolism seem to have supported and promoted Victor Yushchenk. The price of this action is $7 or $10,000, as experts say, but the real price of this action is the criminal responsibility of those who organized and who carried out this action for fuelling international hostility. You know that authorities have been working very hard in recent months not to protect international peace and tranquillity, but to fuel this hostility. Remember how they fought against a forum of democratic forces that organized political forces to support Victor Yushchenk in Donetsk. Who was responsible for the use of Fascist symbolism and the burning of national enmity there? Now this Donetsk or Kyiv letter has moved on to other actions that are taking place in Ukraine today. We have monthly attacks on the Russian center of Pushkin’s cultural name. In doing so, the same windshield strikes, and the same man acts on the same channels and tells us how the Levite nationalists can harm the Russians and the Jews. Once again, I want to say that the Kuchma regime, Yanukovich, Medvedczuk regime and those on the channels should understand, which is why criminal responsibility and the owners of the channels, and the general directors of the channels, and the journalists who talk about it. If you want to cast a shadow on Yushchenka, who is a person who is fueling international hostility, I think you should look elsewhere in other offices. Thus, Victor Yushchenk’s faction demands that the National Security Council and the National Security Council immediately consider at its meetings the question of the inflaming of international hostility, the use of fascist symbols by authorities and channels that are financed, and supported by authority. Otherwise, we will use all the methods to stop these provocative things that could put Ukraine on the brink of a serious conflict. The only thing we've managed to do together in this country is to prevent regional conflicts of inter-national hostility. If the authorities are so afraid of Yushchenka today that in order to prevent him from joining the Presidential Election Company, she is not worthy of being called the Ukrainian authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u9	Alexander Bandurka. Deputies of Democratic Initiatives, People's Authority. Please prepare the Glass.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! As the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Janukovic, Viktor Fedorovich, has been instructed to start work on the restoration of benefits for military personnel, internal affairs officials and their families, which were cancelled in 2001. Not only did the benefits were abolished, but the social guarantees were enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. Hundreds of thousands of veterans of the internal affairs agencies, other law enforcement agencies, and such information is already coming, today’s special composition supports such an initiative by the government. The Democratic Initiatives MP, the People's Government, calls on the government to restore social justice to the full, to remove the evil caused by the previous government of the well-known Prime Minister, and declares its support for the government's efforts to strengthen the financial and financial security of the population. Thank you. And since I've saved time, I want to respond to the screamers on the right. It's your level, it's your level to embarrass yourself in front of the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u11	Thank you. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the Sklar speech from the MP's "Centre." And since the Democratic People's Party MPs, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs passed on the right to speak on to the "Centre" faction, Sklar is entitled to perform for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u12	Glassman, Center Group, District 8, ARC Crimea. Honourable President, distinguished People's Deputies and Presidencies. As Chairman of the Interim Investigation Commission for the Investigation of the Violence against People's Deputies, I would like to inform you of the work of the Commission. The direct reason for its creation was the declaration by the people's deputies of numerous political, economic, administrative and forceful pressures on those parliamentarians who had exercised independence and autonomy in the debate and adoption of important bills for the country. It should be stressed that the Commission's actions are forced and aimed at protecting the legitimate right of parliamentary obligations to the electorate. The Commission does not aim to achieve any indicative processes. The aim of its activities is to try to slow down society's extremely dangerous trend of persecution, which is increasingly similar to the totalitarian past. It should be noted that the Commission is working under difficult conditions. And the executive branch, the law enforcement agencies on the ground at best do not facilitate the work of the commission, in the worst place, oppose it without even concealing it. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the absurdity of the issue that we have to consider. Indeed, the Commission's study was the subject of pressure on the people's deputies by the public authorities, the structure of the executive branch. More precisely, very specific officials at different levels are trying to achieve the full dependence of the people's electorates on political decision-making. The cornerstone of modern democracy, the principle of a free parliamentary mandate, is cynically violated, according to which every member of the legislature is not only a representative of groups and factions, of his constituents in the district, but of the people of Ukraine. If people are pressured, the degree of insecurity of the absolute majority of ordinary citizens of our country, the insecurity of the public officials who speak on behalf of the State, but are not always guided by its interests. There is a legitimate question as to whether an official who gives the command to “break up” an unfavorable deputy would thus commit an offence for which he would sooner or later have to be held responsible. The Commission today has such convincing facts that the publication of them in the press in any civilized society would necessarily lead to a scandal. Today, I will not specify the information available to the Commission, as the investigation of these facts continues and will be documented. According to the Ombudsman's statements, in the vast majority of cases, the pressure on them is hidden. Our task, then, is to identify the organizer, not the archer. At the same time, the main problem that complicates the work of the Commission is the lack of a clear boundary between law, morality, administrative responsibility of officials and criminal responsibility. Regrettably, there is still no legislative framework to regulate law enforcement in this sensitive area. What methods are most effective in influencing an unruly MP? The approach, they say, can be found to anyone. It is easier to tame a deputy who is interested in the development of business, entrepreneurship and, in this regard, becomes actually dependent on the executive and law enforcement authorities. This scheme is simple and extremely effective: it voted wrong - tomorrow at the company, the firm has an impressive “desant” of examiners. The next time, such a deputy would think well about how to vote, either as he was told by political convictions or in the way that influential political forces required. However, if the case concerns its deputies, in most cases it remains inviolable, i.e. it is actually the principle of a double standard. The Commission has to discharge its responsibilities during a critical period for Ukraine. This is not just an electoral campaign. The society, especially the political forces, the MPs, in particular, is beginning to realize that today we must rid ourselves of complexes that have not only been inherited from the totalitarian past but have also been developed at the time of independence. The main ones are corruption, intolerance to discord, the lack of understanding in the civilized world that all problems can be solved by force. All of this pushes the country into chaos and uncontrollability. However, a State whose officials are guided by such criteria has no future. This is what the loyal deputies begin to understand. Those who are convinced of their own impunity should consider that the practice of bending hands today to self-reliance will inevitably lead to the defeat of political opponents. The reanimation of these distant traditions from democracy is certainly delayed by those who today believe that it will be bypassed. Experience has shown that people in Ukraine are rapidly becoming strangers. Moreover, the unity of the majority in the nearness of the elections is becoming increasingly illusory. However, I believe that in no way can we allow the relationship between power and opposition to the regime of mutual accusations, threats and direct reprisals. Given the growing political struggle, this could lead to unpredictable consequences, since politics is the art of the possible, the realization of this concept requires, above all, the ability to negotiate mutual compromises. And the path of endless attacks and the criminalization of politics has led society to a dead end, depriving it of moral guidance and prospects. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u13	Thank you. Alexeyev, a Communist faction, is invited to speak. Get ready for Polack Larissa.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! In 1994, Mikolas Martinos Burojawis is a doctor of historical sciences, professor, the First Secretary of C.C. of the Company of Lithuania was sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment, as was stated "for active participation in CPD activities. The whole fault of Burakyavishius and his convicted colleagues was that, in carrying out the decision of the Allied Referendum on March 17, 1991, they were in favour of preserving Lithuania as part of the Soviet Union. Conducted by leading experts, lawyers, and experts on the substance of criminal case number 1,318 in relation to Burakyavishius, Hermolavis, and others, it is clear that the charges contradict not only objective realities but also the federal republican legislation in force at that time. So Burakyavívís ’ accusation was that he allegedly gave the command to bring military forces into Vilnius, which was the main cause of the tragic events of January 1991. And that's not true, because during that period the Lithuanian RSR, like other Allied republics, did not have their own internal forces, and all the troops in the territory of the Lithuanian RSR were subordinated exclusively to the RUF and the Defense Minister and could not even move one step without commands from Moscow. And this is just one example of this meaningful expertise. Following the expiry of the three - fourth term of imprisonment, the Vilnius District Court ruled on 15 January 2004 on the basis of Lithuanian legislation, but the Lithuanian Prosecutor’s Office and the country’s higher courts succeeded in rescinding the decision, leaving the deadline for the removal of the will unchanged until 2006. On June 17-19, my colleague Oleg Gračov and I, the first deputy head of the committee in foreign affairs, were in Vilnius for the purpose of moral support of Burakyavicius -- this courageous man. The trip did not carry any political ground, just to meet, to talk. The Embassy of Ukraine in Lithuania, which was officially asked for such a meeting, received a positive response, and we arrived in Lithuania. But the next morning, on June 18, strange things began to happen that I don't think could be in the possession of the democratic legal state that Lithuania is announcing itself: the head of the establishment that we, the two national deputies, spent four hours in, said he couldn't solve the issue. We tried to contact the country’s authorities. Mr. Swede, Deputy Justice Minister, asked for 15 minutes at first, and then said that we needed to contact the Prison Department. The next day we tried to get back to management -- and we got the answer again, and I'm showing you that it's like Santa's forbidden dates. I ask myself, do democratic Lithuania have the norms and principles of democracy? We view all of this as a misbehavior. I was a member of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u15	Thank you. Larissa Polakova has a word from the Hard Ukraine faction. Prepare John Bokom. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! Parliamentary hearings on “The situation of a woman in Ukraine” were held very recently in this room. Yesterday, you and I adopted an appropriate ruling of the Supreme Council and recommendations from those hearings. Many participants gave relief, with a clear conscience, a glimpse of the work that had been done. But what's next? I have examined the bills that have been registered in Parliament, which could help to some extent address the problems that Ukrainian women are really worried about today. And that's what I counted over 20. For example, since 2002, Parliament has not been able to consider a bill on home-schooling for children with disabilities. This law awaits many thousands of families raising children with limited physical capacity. I could list other equally important legislative initiatives in the area of maternal and child health, including AIDS, which are unduly long awaited in the sessional room. The parliamentary faction of the political party, Trudové Ukraine, believes that the rule of law is obliged to provide sufficient conditions for the self-fulfillment of every citizen. That is where the faction sees its main challenge, including in the area of gender policy. A legal field should be established in which an entrepreneur would not benefit from the dismissal of a pregnant woman, but the care of the child would become an honorable and well-paid mission, which would not only reward the offspring. The male majority of the parliamentary faction "Trudow Ukraine" has delegated me to say from this rostrum that Ukrainian women have the highest intellectual potential. They have been educated and emancipated enough to win the elections equally, to endure the toughest bids to replace vacancies. And the example of our women, with the honour of today's weight of responsible public posts, is best confirmed. Another point is that the enormous potential of our women often remains unrealized for the simple reason that it is forced to choose between family, children and career. Often, this choice is dictated by insurmountable circumstances, and this problem is not resolved by the provision of representational mandates or by degrading gender quotas for ministerial portfolios. It is known that in the Soviet times in this Hall one third of the seats were occupied by women, but it was not easier for millions of beautiful women who had to earn their piece of bread on health-related productions and at the same time to carry on family problems, to give up their motherhood. Power is the word of a woman, fortunately, with a man's face. While men have the right to take care of themselves, women encourage the emergence of male dependants, whom they despise afterwards. The parliamentary faction of the political party “Trudowé Ukraine” calls on everyone to preserve its symbol for Ukraine to be a coastal woman, a female mother. Not to politicize the problem, but to treat it consistently and in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please don't blame me. The system is automatically shut down. Boki Ivan Sidorovich of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Prepare the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Three days from now, the President's campaign is being launched, as our President is known at all intersections to claim that it will go through in a transparent and democratic way. And as we know, the only body that is involved in our state's election organization is the Central Election Commission, as well as the District and District Election Commissions. But the President's statements, including those in Istanbul, do not fit in. All government structures and the entire executive system have already been involved in the preparation of the elections long before the start of the elections. In these days, documents have come to our faction showing that the Presidential Vertical has taken the elections under its strict control and not for them to be transparent, democratic, but for violence against the will of the Ukrainian people. From a lot of documents, I'll only name two. On 28 May, the head of the Directorate General of the Ministry of Emergency Situations in the Dnipropetrov region of Major General Butkowski directed to all his management structures, requiring written information about all his employees and their relatives, including: tests, mother-in-laws, sisters, wives and so forth for the purpose of free choice in the elections, and in order to increase their activity in the elections. [[detailed data]] [[how cynically written]] We already know what it is, we've been through it. We know from some of these documents, these are both force structures, and all ministries and departments are involved. We also know that you've been given a command to infiltrate the homes of all of you, all of you opponents and so forth, namely to violate constitutional rights, civil rights, to violate all the laws and so forth. It's breaking the Information Act, breaking the Central Election Commission Act, Presidential Elections, and so on. We, the faction of socialists, view this as a declaration of war on the Ukrainian people in elections. This real war will be in the election for the preservation of the power of the oligarchs, for the preservation of the power of the criminal clans. We warn the entire Ukrainian people that it is not a law that is punishable by the Criminal Code and that in the end the punishment will reach everyone sooner or later, who involves all the government structures and who declared war on the Ukrainian people in the presidential elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u19	Yes. Sergey Headed by the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, to prepare Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u20	Dear Sir, Head! Dear fellow MPs! I want to bring your weight to one, one problem. Ukraine's parliamentary delegation in Strasbourg, which has been in the past session, many members of this delegation, and this may be the case, Boris Illich, when he will speak in our agenda, will tell us that we are more than ever close to another European, or international, disgrace. We are very close to the fact that sanctions will actually be applied to Ukraine. And I understand those who want to. I understand the anti - Ukrainian hatred of Medvedchuk and all his attempts to push Ukraine out of civil Europe. I understand that Mukachevo was made for this. I understand that so - called political reform has been designed for this purpose. Because what happened in January, after the debate in Strasbourg, where the last warning was given, that if constitutional reform was still being attempted in an unconstitutional way or by the content that did not meet the Council of Europe standards, then, indeed, sanctions would be applied to Ukraine. 115th Chinese warning. After voting last Wednesday for the fact that it was essentially the subject of discussion in January according to content and procedure, the Supreme Council slapped those who warned them. I repeat, I understand that this is necessary for the Medvedchuk faction. I understand that other Ukrainian phobias need this. I understand it's necessary for anyone who doesn't want to see Ukraine normal, wants to say that Ukraine still has wild people. But I can't understand those who recently joined a social service. Because the socialist international of Europe and European values are the same thing. Because wherever you go, whether to Brussels or to the European Union, or to Cuchma to Istanbul, he is told: democracy, the rule of law, human rights. Therefore, even in view of the fact that socialist Terry Davis has been elected Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, he knows very well what is behind the constitutional reform in Ukraine. So I just want to ask you not to make sure that in October Ukraine gets another disgrace. I don't care whether I have the right to vote in the Assembly or whether I have the Olinick, Rahansky or not, or whether I have the authority to stop. But in October they can look at us as really wild people who don't understand the normal European language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u21	Vladimir Leschenko of the Communist faction, to prepare for Vladimir Yavorowski’s dissatisfaction with the response to three parliamentary requests. There's an appropriate application.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u22	Thank you. Vladimir Leshchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro, coordinator of the Interfractional MPs Committee "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia", ZUBR. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Let me inform you about the summary of the XXVI session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia, which took place from 24 to 25 June this year in the city of Brest, Belarus. A delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Interfractional Union of ZUB, who has the status of official observer in this federal body, participated in its work. The session of the Parliamentary Assembly discussed the progress of the Russian Federation and Republic of Belarus programme of action to implement the Treaty on the Creation of a Federal State and the measures to improve the effectiveness of the construction. A report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the federal state budget for 2002 and other issues. There were also difficulties in building a federal state. The main obstacles on this path are the destructive actions of the legalist forces, the oligarchs, the external pressure. The President of Belarus, Alexander Grigorovich Lukashenko, spoke at the session of the Supreme State Authority of the Union of Belarus and Russia. He noted that when the two states of Russia and Belarus together, they are invincible. The Union is not created by political leadership but by nations. Their motives were friendship, brotherhood, unity. The creation of the Allied State has been positive for both Russia and Belarus. This is primarily the only space on earth and in the air, the absence of borders, close economic cooperation, and so forth. The trade between the two countries has now reached 15 billion. US dollars per year plus 2 billion dollars per year. The service. Restored, "lived" in 1991, links between more than eight thousand Russian and Belarusian enterprises. The well - known MAZ, for example, has the most intimate connections with 600 Russian businesses. They provide two thirds of the kits. However, 80 percent of Mazu’s production is sold in the Russian market. Actually, Belarus is now exporting 60 percent of its produce. He doesn't trade raw materials. The demand for its goods and products is twice as high as the capacity of the production capacity that is now working with full load. That's where people work, stable wages, and that's now an average of $159 a month. The solution to all social issues. So in Belarus, clean and tidy cities and villages, a beautiful road network, sown and cultivated fields. Conclusion: The sooner we create a single economic space with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, the sooner we will come together into the union of the independent Slovenian states of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, the better it will be for our peoples, for our electorate, because it is the age-old desire of the Slavonic peoples. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u23	Vladimir Yavorowski, three minutes, please, in view of the dissatisfaction with the reply to parliamentary requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I would like to exercise my legitimate right to speak on the answers I have received. I would like to say, society, the fourth session is ending, Ukraine will enter a completely participatory, as it were, period of its history, the election of the President will begin. Something is likely to change in our lives. But in the meantime, I'd like to take a look at just a few concrete examples of how our Attorney General works. In this case, it's on the request of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. If that's what they do to people's deputies, to all of us in fact, you can imagine that the situation of our electorate is simple people who apply to the Attorney General's Office, including the General. I'm giving a specific example. On November 4th, a group of militiamen and several men with machine guns in camouflage burst into the National Writer Association. They're taking another woman to the Writer Association, and they're taking her to the police. In the meantime, the National Writer’s Association is occupied. Had it not been for the national deputies of Stretovich, Jaborovsky, Philenka, Zwania, apparently, the place would have been occupied, no one would have returned it to this day. We've just been able to bounce. There was a video shoot. We've been sending all the documents to the Attorney General's Office for about a month and a half and a half, we've been getting formal receipts, I'm a national deputy. And it ends up there's no reason to open a criminal case. Next. All of a sudden, we find out that the main seal of the Head of the National Society is in the safe, and all of a sudden, I see them walking on Kiev with an autonomous complete seal. We find in the newspaper an announcement: "The lost seal of the National Writer Association is considered invalid." And the seal is in my safe! I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, "People good! Imagine, there could be counterfeiting financial documents, there could be counterfeiting -- anything, any crime!" I'm going back to the Attorney General's Office, and I've never heard back from Vasiliev personally. I don't know how you do it, but it's probably already quite so common, because in one institution I was told that there are orders at all, the first people shouldn't take national MPs. And here's the last, literally, answer that came to me on 21.06. Listen: Civil rights are currently under appeal, addressed to the Supreme Court of Ukraine and have not returned to the District Court. You're lying! She was in the district court. Therefore, there is no possibility of requiring the necessary documents and making a procedural decision. Now you're wondering why they can't find any bandits in Mukachev, you're wondering why they can't find who killed George Gongadze? Here's the answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u25	Honorable colleagues, all who applied, took advantage of their rights. In accordance with Zarah Katusheva’s request, I will again put to the vote her parliamentary request. This is a request from Zarya Katusheva to the President of Ukraine for violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. Our colleague informed us that this was about the protection of the rights of the disabled. That is why I am voting in favour of this request. [[11:04:36]] For 225 Regardless of what didn't work on the board, we have 225 votes. I'm asking you to check the system. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:05:04]] For 299 Decision taken. Thank you. It's true of motive. Or the procedure, more precisely, because there's no motive yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the problem of delivering the period, especially during this important period. In my opinion, the main reason that Crucifixion is only twice a week in many locations is that Crucifixion has refused to cooperate with railways and airlines, motivated by high rail and aviation tariffs. To address the issue in a fundamental way, I propose that the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the State Liaison and Information Committee be united and that the Ministry of Transport and Communications be established. Then finally we're going to achieve this, this is an ancient, proven practice, we're going to achieve what both postal and press periodic, and this is the information security of the state, we're going to get to the subscriber on time. Today, hundreds of thousands of subscribers can be filed for moral damages.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to. Yuri Carmazin, please. Let's get to the schedule. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Block of Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I ask you to give an order to the Committee of Tomenka, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Committee on the Rights of the Child on the grounds that society is concerned about the news that the will cable company, which is now broadcasting parliamentary television on two channels: through the parliamentary channel and through the fifth channel, is being persecuted because of what it has done. These are very scary trends that have already been observed by observers of the Council of Europe. Let's stop this. And let them give us the answer, including the Attorney General. Let them stop attacking democracy. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, your duty is to protect democracy, because that shows you, the parliamentary channel. Thank you. Please give me an assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask Alexander Zinchenko to study this question. If necessary, prepare appropriate references. The issue is under review: information on the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the work of the third part of the Paris 2004 session. The rapporteur is the head of the Permanent Delegation, Boris Ilchi Oliynik. Boris Ilchi asks 15 minutes to get to your knowledge, your respectable colleagues, all the information you need. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You are probably already listening to the fact that from 21 to 25 June this year, there was a third session of the Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg, attended by a permanent delegation of Ukraine composed of national deputies: Catherine Vaschuk, Sergey of the Head, Roman Zvaric, Orestes of Klimpus, Yuri Kostenka, Boris Oliynik, Anatoly of Rahanski, whom I welcome to Birthday, Vitalia Šibka. The agenda of the session was, inter alia, the following questions and problems: "Europe and the Great Europe", "Elections of the Hensek Council of Europe", "Deservation of duties and obligations by Turkey", "Contribution of the European Union for Reconstruction and Development in the Economic Development of Central and Eastern Europe", "House slavery, service, bride-to-be by mail", "Conservation of duties and obligations by Bosnia and Herzegovina", "Prevention of conflicts and their resolution, the role of women", "General European Prohibition of the Physical Punishment of Children", "The situation in Iraq" following an urgent procedure, "Monopolization of Electronic Media and possible abuse of power in Italy", "The situation of refugees and displaced persons in the SND countries", "The management of water resources in Europe", and so on. The work of the forum began with a unanimous decision to the Bureau, which to this day consisted of presidents, genseks, heads of permanent delegations and leaders of political groups, and the introduction of committee heads. On this occasion, I would like to welcome Sergey Petrovich Head of the Bureau and the Joint Committee of the Council of Europe, which is a kind of General Assembly. In addition, the session heard statements by the president of the European Central Bank, Jean Claude Treche, President of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Jean Lemier, as well as by Jan Petersen, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Norway, at the same time head of the Committee of Ministers, President of Armenia, Robert Kocherian. They all answered numerous questions from members of the Parliamentary Assembly. There was the election of the Hensek Council of Europe, where, in an absolute majority of votes, the representative of Great Britain, the head of the socialist group, the well-known, experienced politician Terry Davis, was greeted by the Chief of the Supreme Council and, of course, by our parliamentary vote in favour of him. We also met the nobles of Severinsen and Wolvend for their initiative. And the reporters reported on the outcome of the session of the Monitoring Committee of the Ukrainian question and on the strength to facilitate their next visit to Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk at the end of August of this year. Anatoly Rahansky met with the parliamentary delegation of Kazakhstan. Usually, a full chronological report on the conduct of the June session will be submitted to the national deputies according to the established act. Then I will allow myself in the context of the problems that have been discussed to highlight those that have given special attention to the session. If Turkey’s responsibilities and commitments have been noted that only in the last two years has it implemented more reforms than in the past 10 years, that real progress has allowed it to move to a post-monitoring dialogue, Bosnia, Herzegovina has decided to continue monitoring until further progress is achieved, which is now almost absent. I highlighted this fragment as a demonstration of objectivity, an open minded estimate based not on emotion or some type of argument, but on the facts. We would like to respond to our shortcomings with dignity by proving our rightfulness and patriotism, not by masquerade, but by fulfilling our obligations, rather than sending a respected institution away and so loud. You know, in Strasbourg, they're just wondering who you've got going on so well. These rhetoric and offices, and not all of us, will be asked to familiarize ourselves with the information memorandum on the visit of fellow reporters to Ukraine, where they scrupulously, with German accuracy and objectively reveal the whole spectrum of what is happening to us. In this sense, a good lesson may be to discuss the question of “Monopolization of electronic media and possible abuse of power in Italy”. The main report pointed to the abnormal concentration of political, economic, and media in the hands of one person. Prime Minister Berlusconi, who owns almost half of the country's telecommunications equipment, has one of the world's largest media-set companies. As Prime Minister, he has acquired unprecedented control over almost 90 percent of the television set. This is an objective situation that is confirmed by the totality of the inconvenient facts. And all of this, there were several dignitaries who tried to correct the indisputable, demonstrating unruly loyalty to their Prime Minister, in the style of some of the country’s loyalists, indeterminately. This is the saddest thing that the country's representatives with ancient democratic traditions have shown up like this. To the honor of the vast majority of Italians, they also strongly supported the critical conclusions of the report and the sharp speeches by colleagues from other countries, stressing the need to ensure pluralism and freedom of the media. Having appreciated Berlusconi’s efforts to monopolize the information space, the Assembly called for regulatory measures to put an end to the political interference of the mass media, including the Declaration of the Council of Europe’s Council of Ministers’s Committee on Freedom of Political Expression, adopted on February 12, this year. A fairly clear signal has also been sent to Ukraine, where the monopolization of the media by the clans is almost complete. Naturally, the highest temperature was the result of an extraordinary debate, “The contribution of the Council of Europe to the stability of the situation in Iraq”. Welcomed by the UN Security Council Resolution on the transfer of full power to Iraqis and the completion of the occupation by June 30, as you know, the reporter. At the same time, regret was expressed over the ongoing violence in Iran. The most important and difficult thing in her mind is to establish the rule of law and guarantee full control over Iraq’s natural resources. The delicateness of the report on the political assessments of aggression was offset by overcompensation by parliamentarians who clearly condemned the undisclosed intervention of the so - called coalition, read by Americans and English, against the sovereign state. Rachansky and Oliynik took part in the discussion, which supported the demand of the vast majority, as soon as possible for the invaders to leave Iraq. I noted, in particular, that the resolution should not only condemn aggression but also emphasize the inadmissibility of such acts. It is not a secret that the Bush administration did not remove its intention to punish Iran, Syria, and North Korea. Typically, in Kosovo and Serbia as well as in Iraq, and in dozens of other countries, U.S. propagators have given the world, as a help to the neo-profits, to contribute to democracy. But if you join democracy with cassette bombs and depleted uranium shells, may the Lord protect you from such helpers. All of this comes from a complex of Godliness and impunity, so Europe’s most important contribution to solving a tragic node, as far as I am concerned, will help to overcome a new older brother’s complex of exclusiveness and finally to feel in a family of civilized nations equal to the equal. At first glance, this time, Ukraine failed. But it's only at first sight. In the course of the session, there was a meeting of the monitoring committee, where after hearing information from Severinsen and Wolvend, following their visits to Ukraine from Mukachevo to Crimea, a statement was adopted by the committee to prepare for our presidential election. The statement itself states, I quote, that constitutional reform, which is, in principle, essential, should wait for the end of the presidential elections to be carried out in a democratic and transparent manner, in clear compliance with the current Constitution and with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. The above has not been heard, as we have been voted first in favour of reforms. Clearly, this message touched the Council of Europe so much that some of its factors took hold of its head. Indeed, we will not allow these full - time dignitaries to sleep until we get them out of Europe. So let us honor ourselves, for we are worthy of our forgiveness at the October session of the Parliamentary Assembly. All members of the delegation took part in the session. Whether in committees or in political groups or in plenary debates. The delegation’s welfare regime provided permanent representation under Anatolia Anatoliyovich Shevchuk. Employees of the International Supreme Council, Andrew Korniychuk, Viacheslav Lakshin, Igor Piljav, to whom we are deeply grateful. Finally, I would like to urge the leadership of the Supreme Council to expedite the passage of the documents relating to the package of our obligations to the Council of Europe. Because it looks like we're going to have some serious problems in October. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u31	Thank you, Boris Illich. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you, because there is a charge that the statement and the memorandum adopted by the Monitoring Committee have not been brought to the attention of the National Deputies. The day I received these documents by e-mail, I immediately sent them to factions, to committees to familiarize people's deputies. I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues to contact the committees and the factions again, and you'll see that this is done. And don't make any noise about it. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax and certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of tax accounts is being announced for consideration. Three bills: 5333, 5333-1, 5333-2. Reporters: National MPs Homutinnik, Teryochin and Deputy Minister of Finance of the Copilov. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich Hometicnik. Very briefly, I'd like to ask for three explanations of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! The draft law proposes a comprehensive solution to the main problems encountered in the collection of value added tax in Ukraine. The figures indicate a sharp decline in the effectiveness of this tax. During the 5 months of this year, net earnings amounted to 1.7 billion dollars. At the same time, during a similar period last year, the figures amounted to 2 billion bracelets. That is, VAT revenues fell by 18 per cent when the economy grew by more than 10 per cent. The increase in tax debt, which has reached 6.5 billion dollars already this year, including the 4 billion fuel and energy complex. This is due to a significant delay in reimbursement of value added tax, which has led to the freezing of the working capital of enterprises. A number of these problems have prompted us to draft the bill. In order to address the emerging crisis, it is proposed that the VAT accounting method should be introduced instead of the traditional rule of the first event. This is a fairly significant norm among the proposed improvements to the VAT administration system. This would allow the tax to be paid in the budget only after the funds have been paid for the goods, which would significantly save the working capital of taxpayers. The mode of operation of tax current accounts is being introduced in order to allocate the cash flows of the budget fund from the taxpayer's funds. The main difference in the regime for the use of tax accounts under the draft law from the previously repealed Government and Nitzbank Decree No. 359 is that the taxpayer can return from the tax account to his current account the equivalent amount he had previously charged to the tax account, provided there is no tax debt. The main issues raised by the freezing of enterprise funds in tax accounts are thus addressed. The amounts remaining in the tax accounts correspond to the VAT payable to the budget. This has been achieved through the introduction of a cash accounting method for VAT. Included in the bill and the issue of VAT reimbursement. The bill introduces a single VAT reimbursement system without dividing into domestic and export refunds. Reimbursement must take place within thirty calendar days. This cluster of issues has been discussed in detail in draft law 4001. All above will provide an opportunity to find a resource to reduce the tax rate to 17 per cent this year and to 15 per cent of the value added tax from 1 January 2005. I would like to point out that the draft law was drafted in a concerted manner with the public, with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. And all the opinions and wishes of those were taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u33	Thank you. Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Prepare Vadim Anatolyovich Kopilova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! Well, let's say it's rain-view. We have considered these questions, both on the Supreme Council and on the committees. And you know that everyone has made negative decisions about the introduction of so-called special VAT bills. Why? For two reasons: the first is that the company's circulation costs are greatly reduced; they freeze at least in this scheme, which is written by the national MP Homutinnik and the President, at least for 50 days. Loan rates will increase even further after these accounts are applied, the excess liquidity of banks will not be covered by these additional resources that will be in the banks, and the main thing is that the President imposes a solid liability on taxpayers, that is, if you buy a product from someone, you pay them an honest VAT, and someone doesn't pay that VAT, then why suffer has an enterprise that has an honest purchase of the goods and paid the VAT. So I want you to know that the committee had a discussion yesterday. And for the Homutinika project, there was one vote -- the Homutinika. And there was no vote for the President's draft. So I think we need to get out of this by making these decisions. Regarding the Teryochina project, Matvienkova, Saint, Šibka. This is 5333-2, and the authors are taking it off the table due to the fact that project 5258 will be discussed on the second reading tomorrow, which is actually predicting a reduction in VAT rates to 15 percent, the introduction of a compensation machine, the normal administration system, what we received here, remember, recently on the first reading. So the committee didn't make any decisions, as you can understand and bring them to the room, and I would ask myself not to support any drafts and to move quickly on to other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u35	Deputy Minister of Finance, Vadim Anatoliyovich Kopilov, is invited to attend. Please, Vadim Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! According to the President's decision, I have been asked to present a defined draft law aimed at a comprehensive solution to the administrative problem and the budgetary compensation of the added value tax, the reduction of tax pressure and the sustainability of the budget. The introduction of individual current and individual registration accounts for taxpayers and cash flow methods is aimed at improving the administrative order and preventing illegal VAT compensation. The introduction of such a system is expected to increase VAT revenues to the budget, which will reduce the tax rate to 15 percent in the future. Individual current and individual VAT registration accounts are used to calculate VAT between suppliers and buyers of goods, jobs, services, and the State Budget, including in compensation for the value added tax. In the event of the removal of goods, the performance of the work, the provision of services without the payment of the taxpayer’s money, the buyer is obliged to self-calculate from his own individual current account the amount of the tax added to the individual current account of the supplier. In the absence of the necessary amount of VAT recalculation costs, the payer completes a separate current account from other current accounts. Thus, cash flows from VAT are separated from other cash flows that arise between business entities as a result of economic activity and remain locked up in the system of individual current and individual registration accounts. Changes in the order in which the tax returns are made. Instead of applying the first event rule, a cash flow calculation method is introduced. In addition, the cash flow method will warn the sellers of artificial indigestion in the event of payment or lack of payment due to the buyer’s ability to pay. The bill defines the automatic compensation mechanism, introduces a single system of budgetary compensation without division into export and internal. Reimbursement will be made by the State Treasury authority at the request of the payer. Closing the cash flows generated by VAT taxation will significantly simplify and reduce the State budget's expenditure on VAT administration, including the release of a significant technical, human resource involved in taxing the budget. At the same time, there will be a significant increase in governance, the predictability of the tax mobilization process to the State Budget. The proposed administration will shorten the deadlines from the State Budget. At the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the draft bill proposed by the President of Ukraine on the first reading can be taken as a basis, since it practically includes the main provisions of the bill, which was introduced by the national deputy Homutinnik and Burjak. Please support the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The information on the three draft laws to your knowledge has been proved. Let's move on to the discussion. Na, we need it from the committee. From the committee, honourable colleagues, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Tzusko, Socialist faction, Committee on Finance. The Committee discussed these three bills yesterday. Neither was a positive decision. It was decided that we would take them to the hall. You'll have to decide today. In principle, the sponsors, the drafters of the bill and the representatives of the Government, on behalf of the President, reported the situation, so I will not take the time to discuss it and the result of the vote will show how it relates, in the case of the House. The Committee was unable to take a decision, and no draft legislation was supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u39	Yuri. On board, please, the name of the national deputies who expressed their desire to participate in this discussion. Yuri Carmazin to prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u40	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! First of all, let me turn to the Head of the Supreme Council, we have a decree of 5333-5 of the Montenegrin People's Deputies on the inadmissibility of one, two and three bills. And we're based on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u41	Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u42	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u43	Yuri Anatolyovich! Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. There are draft deductions, and that's two big differences, as they say in Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u44	He says it's against the Constitution, that's why. That's why I think. I thought we were supposed to give him the word. Well, if not. So I'm going to brief you on the situation under these bills. Dear National Deputies! I'm counting the shadow money circuits that come from VAT. And you know the calculation. The calculation is very simple: it's down to 2 billion minus 40 percent, that's what taxpayers take. 40 percent is you can count that out of 2 billion already 800 million have gone into the shadows. Do you need such a tax or not? Does the President of Ukraine know about this or not? Leonid Danilovich, if you don't know, I'll tell you how much money is specifically washed in the area. Most of them are washed in the city of Kiev, in the city of Kiev. The drafts introduced by the national deputy Homutinnik and Burjak are, rightly said by the national deputy of Chernevski, such that they conflict with the Constitution, especially the 41st article, according to which everyone has the right to rule, to use, to manage his property and the results of his intellectual creative activities, such that are contrary to the Constitution and must, of course, be rejected. There are so many negatives that it's going to be very hard to count, it's going to take 20 minutes to count. But the scariest moments, this law, the changes to the law put it above all other laws, over the Constitution, because the Constitution is part of Ukrainian legislation. In addition to the Constitution, we have codes and the Budget Code, and the priority of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax, which is proposed by the national deputy Homutinnik and Burjak, and is established, will only lead to greater destruction of the Ukrainian economy. With regard to the President's proposals, I am grateful to the committee that the committee did not support him either. There are some positive developments in the Teryochina, Matthew, Saint, Sibko. But there are also very, very few. They offer to conduct a chamber check of the claimed VAT claims for up to 30 days and so forth. None of these bills are needed. I'll vote against it. That's what I call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u45	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to you a political assessment of the three bills that have been tabled. And the political assessment is the following. When the masters quarrel with each other, the capitalists, the government of capitalist ministers, the new Ukrainian bourgeoisie, the holopas, or the small Ukrainian, break the bush. It's about improving the administration system. According to promises to lower the tax rate to 15 percent, even to 17 percent or 15 percent. Attempts to redistribute cash flows in favor of one stack of oligarchs into another pile of oligarchs are hidden. Sometimes I'm asked, who are the oligarchs and are they different from the capitalists? And yesterday, one of my colleagues, a very educated man, a doctor of law, advised me on this point to explain: Capitalists, they have to go a certain way to create their own capitals and maybe at the initial stage something will be wrong with them, but in the next steps it should be clear and clear. The oligarchs who made their "hands" and hide it, and they never want to show it on the surface. So once again, I want to announce that nothing is shining in this law for a small Ukrainian. And so at the end of my speech, I want to say this very briefly. The faction of Communists in these devices and these games of modern oligarchs, the open enemies of the people of Ukraine will not take part, and we call upon all those with whom there is a drop of honor and conscience left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u47	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u48	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, eight years goes by to renovate the VAT Act and, with the change of officials, there are some adjustments that everyone is doing. And unfortunately, these bills, which have been enacted today, don't solve the VAT problem again. The VAT has ceased to be a complete tax. He's just taking the money out of the budget today. The taxpayers of the tax in Ukraine are practically financed by experts in a chemical metal operation. In contrast, a large part of the owners of these enterprises are abroad, or Ukrainians, who now finance families both close and distant. As noted by my colleagues, VAT has become the most criminalized tax. It is well known that VAT payback is up to 40 percent. I mean, if this year 18 billion. The return of VAT is 7.5 billion. It's on the paw. The VAT is being reimbursed, so to speak, not for those who work, but for the most part for the grandmothers. The additional introduction of individual declarations, individual special accounts, will not solve the VAT problem, and only corruption of tax administration will raise it to a higher level. In my view, the VAT problem needs to be solved in a complex way, not, for example, by touching holes. And there must be an extremely high role for the Cabinet of Ministers and especially for its economic bloc. Because individual deputies, I believe, take these problems into account and write them into a separate law too difficult. We need to approach more widely here. In my opinion, it's long overdue for VAT to cancel at all, as has been the case in this room many times, and to introduce, say, a sales tax. And one more thing. At the budget committee meeting, we did not once recommend to the government that the President should have a problem with taxes on the added value of considering at the National Security Council meeting, because its corruption, its imperfection and today its failure to be budget-fulfilling, but only to extend the funds from the budget, poses a threat to Ukraine's national interests. So the faction of socialists will not vote in favour of these laws, and we still demand a broader and broader debate at the National Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u49	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u50	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine", by Mr. Kiev. Dear colleagues, what is the basis for the drafters of the bill? There's no money coming, so there's some sort of robbery going on. I'll allow myself to remind all of us how long and to some extent successfully we've been struggling with extra-budgetary funds that were semi-legalized ways to steal money. And by the way, the checking of the current non-budgetary office shows that this work has not been completed. And I think we just have to stop stealing money from the government and then the money will be there. Today, at the same tax added to the value of baseless or semi-substantial returns from the budget is more than coming to it. And instead of putting an end to these things -- legal and indirect theft -- we're offered some kind of polytechnics that only complicate the situation. Well, what will lead to the creation of extra individual accounts? First of all, I think it's very, very convincing that Sergey Terrohin talked about, that the circulation costs are delayed. Yeah, they're not completely eliminated, they're stalling. Secondly, the accounting account is very confusing, and that's going to be an extra burden on businesses as well. Thirdly, the number of tests is increasing. Even now, under the authority of the tax collectors, just as the locusts have glued all the businesses, and more so, those who are still still in the blue. Additional accounts are an additional number of testers, and only on Friday was my request for tax abuse of the Orlan company in Kiev published. And we just want to turn all of Ukraine into a tax-free zone. I think it's wrong. Do you know where to look for extra money? Now, I just remember that one of the first steps of the Yushchenko government was to eliminate 257 targeted benefits that didn't pay the tax. We were listening to one of the tax leaders on TV recently when he said, "Love for Ukraine does not exempt you from paying taxes." We know very well that it does not release. It frees love for Medvedchuk and Kuchma from paying taxes. And I think I should. The first thing that needs to be done is for everyone to pay taxes equally, and to get those businesses, those firms, those structures that are now under the highest patronage. And that's where they'll be. 10 billion have already been found, and I think there will be others to do all the necessary social programs and to return cheap savings. Keep it up. Teryochin said there was one voice on the committee. I think one vote will be in favour of this project and in the hall, more or less. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u51	Thank you, Boris Jacobovich. Leonid Chernewicki, please, as the author of two draft rulings on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This is a bill that deals with the question that enterprises, so oppressed by this value added tax, will not be able to manage their assets during the tax period. That's the main problem. Well, in general, the VAT has to be eliminated, even any grandmother in my Darnick district of Kiev knows that. But, among other things, the Draconian system for the maintenance of these accounts is being introduced. Moreover, the main thing is that enterprises will not be able to use them during the tax period. Do not vote in favour of this law. And in principle, we need to eliminate VAT because it's paid by the disadvantaged in the pockets of some bad uncles. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I will put the bill to the vote in order of registration and of the coming bill. The first one is the draft law, registration number 5333, and the author is the national deputy of Homutinnik and others. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Cost Tax and some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the introduction of tax accounts. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft law, registration number 5333, author of the national MP Homutinnik. [[11:46:23]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Added Value Tax. Dear colleagues! Change the vote. Bill 5333-1, the authors of National Deputy Terjehochin, Matvienkov, Svatash and Šibko, have withdrawn the project. I'm voting on the Presidential bill. Registration number 5333-2, amending certain Ukrainian laws on individual current and individual registration accounts of taxpayers for added value. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft law, registration number 5333-2. Please vote. [[11:47:30.]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Calm down, please. Vasil Petrovich, no suggestions? Bills are rejected. Let us turn to the second reading of the bills. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission is being announced for consideration. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk of the Temporary Special Commission will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished presidency, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens! In fact, today's consideration of this bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account yesterday's bill on the guarantees of electoral rights and on the State Register of Voters, concludes the reform of the Ukrainian electoral system, since this is the last bill that concludes the work carried out by the Supreme Council in this direction. In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Constitutional Commission and its working group have completed and represent today, for your second reading, the draft Law on the Central Election Commission in a new edition. By the way, let me immediately report on the decision of the Constitutional Commission itself, which is to recommend and approve this bill today on second reading and in general. Dear colleagues! The need for this law to be adopted, as a minimum, is due to two reasons. First. By the laws that were approved by Parliament, by the new Laws on Elections of Local Self-Governmental Authorities, on Elections of People's Deputies, on Elections of the President, we have made it very clear, I would like to stress this, some of the functions and activities of the Central Electoral Commission, as a high-level commission. This is the first time. It's different. The time that followed the adoption by Parliament in 1996 of the current Law on CWC, which is almost seven years of application of the law, has shown that there is a need to make some substantial changes to this law, and they have actually been proposed to you for consideration by the drafters of the bill, and in fact now by the Constitutional Commission. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Actually, I'd like to conclude with this introductory word to an article review and suggest we move on to an article-by-article discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u55	Then we'll go after the repairs? Dear colleagues! We're going after the amendments that are rejected, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u56	Yes, according to tradition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u57	So, 11th Zwania. Is he insisting on the amendment? No, it's not. 13th, Klukkowski. No, it's not. 15th, Zvaritch. No, it's not. Garmash, 20th. No, it's not. Kostinuk, 21st. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! My amendment concerns that part of the second article 1 should be deleted, which refers to the commission leading the electoral commission system or overseeing the activities of local, local referendums. Imagine that in the village a referendum on changing the name of the street or where the passport, for example, does and the Central Election Commission does control. I propose that this rule be removed and. Considering that there are still observations given to us today around the expert board, where it is also meant that the functions of the Central Electoral Commission to include only its functions in the election of deputies to the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine and the All-Ukrainian referendums are to be deleted, because this is not a function, because there are no functions in the actual legislation on local elections for this Central Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u59	Your Honor! Dear colleague! Not surprisingly, this subject, including your amendment, was discussed in detail both in the working group and on the constitutional committee itself. Indeed, the bill, which was proposed in the first reading, predicted that the Central Election Commission would have some authority over the local elections. But. As a result of the discussion, we agreed and, in fact, today's edition is proposed to the Supreme Council to approve that the Central Election Commission is holding and organizing elections for the national deputies, the President and, in fact, for the All-Ukrainian referendum. The functions of the Central Electoral Commission in part of the local elections and local referendums are limited solely by the control of their conduct and the function of scientific and advisory services, i.e. the CEC is not entitled, will not have the right to form electoral, territorial and district committees, not to form these committees, not any other action. But, for example, when local self-government authorities do not appoint interim elections, I emphasize, interim elections, or other actions that are provided for by valid laws on local self-government elections, there is a question of who and which authority should intervene on the part of the State and make the appropriate decision. So your amendment to the ideology of the law is taken into account, but there is no reason to delete it completely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u60	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 21st People's Deputies of Costinuk, page five. [[11:53:58]] Z-70. No correction supported. Let's keep going. Amendment of the 29th Jury of Klukkowski. None. Is there a Klukkowski? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u61	I don't insist on this amendment, it's edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u62	Let's move on. Now, one minute. The cook took off his repairs all of them. Zwania's 56th and 57th. None. Bogdan Costinjuk, 60th Amendment. Don't insist. Garmash, 62nd. Don't insist. Gorbal, 63. Hare Ivan, 70th Amendment. Don't insist. Onechuk, 73rd. Mikola Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u63	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u64	57th? Now, one minute. 57th Zwania, I called the amendment, Gorbal, Martinyuk, Garmash. No, let Garmash come, don't. Dear colleagues, well, that's not possible. Where's your repair? I say, Amendment 57 Zhuaniya, Gorbal, Martinyuk and Harmash. Well, please, Semenyuk. Well, neither can respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it was signed further by Harmash and Frost, but they were somehow not included because it was one man from the faction. That's why I'm asking. Our proposal is that we still need to leave the position of one deputy for the proper work of the CLTC, as provided for in the approval of the relevant members of the CLTC. Our proposal, and what Adam Ivanovich supports, is that we leave the word "substitute" instead of the word "substitute" and this is a normal proposal that will be taken into account in the ability to work. And Alexander Aleksandrovitch stood up for this proposal at the board meeting, and I think it's a normal amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u66	Dear Valentino Petrovno, indeed, was also discussed at the meeting of the working group and the TSC. But most of the votes of the commission we've come to the conclusion that from the point of view of practical organization of work, there's no question theory here, and there's no experience of applying the current CVA Act, there's two substitutes in the Head, one of which would care about issues such as funding electoral campaigns. Because CEC, in addition to having an internal financial, also provides funding for the election of the national deputies and the President, while another would lead to all the issues related to other functions, namely, the commission’s own organizational activities, was more effective. Actually, there's no harm in that question -- that's the first. It's different. I note from the session room that the amendments made by the Socialist Party of Ukraine are practically considered to be very important in terms of the fact that the proposals of the parliamentary parties and factions that are represented in Parliament are included in the formation of the CWC. And then there may be a need for the parliamentary board to be as well represented as possible, and the presence of two substitutes increases the scope of such a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u67	I'm sorry. Dear colleague, member of the CBC, why are you going there? I didn't get it. Why do CTC members walk around the hall? What is this, a doorway or something? What kind of agitation are you running here?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u68	Therefore, given at least these two arguments, it was approved that the temporary special committee should leave the text that was voted in the first reading, that is, the concept of the two deputy heads of CBC. Let's work in this mode, and our colleagues, if they see that this was a wrong decision, they'll fix it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u69	For that reason, Stepan Ilkovich. Please, Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u70	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. I want to draw your attention to the 68th Amendment. It's written that reads editorially. In fact, the substance of the amendment was thrown out because it meant that a member of the Central Electoral Commission could not be part of the executive branch, other state bodies. The "other state authorities" rejected the commission and thus abandoned what was voted on in the first reading. The essence of this amendment. For example, Mr. Kiwalov is currently illegally engaged, a member of the High Council of Justice, and is the head of the Central Electoral Commission. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u71	Dear Stephen Ilkovich, the first clarification is that Mr. Kiwalov is not the Head of the High Council of Justice today. You know, according to his statement, he's been re-elected and there's another Head today. That's the first one. The other one. As far as it's concerned, there can be no amendments to the non-entry of members of the CLTC from the point of view of compatibility. other authorities of the State. This subject has indeed been discussed. I'd like to notice the following. We predicted that it would not be possible to combine the status of a member of the CLTC, except for the traditional set, with the impossibility of joining the central executive authorities and local self-government bodies, including their executive bodies. But we know that there is a number of special bodies in the Constitution that are not part of the system of executives, such as the National Defence Council, the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission, and some others, where representatives of the authorities of the State, including national deputies, including the Attorney General, for example, are directly provided for by law, i.e. the State considers it possible and appropriate for these officials to be represented in such bodies. There's no harm in such cases that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u72	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to consider this a second-reading bill. You don't have to fix the lycose here. Let's be clear about voting and making decisions, because we're not going to make any decisions. Just a minute. I put it to a vote, it was article 57. the amendment. Amendment 57, notice, this is page 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. [[12:02:10]] For-84 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on an amendment to the 68th of Stéphane Cloud. [[12:02:31]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we may take a break and continue after the break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u73	We are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. The Secretariat, please invite Oneichuk to the session hall and other national deputies. Please announce. Yes, dear colleagues, the 70th Amendment. Ivan the Hare, isn't it? Nobody insists? Let's move on. 73nd Onechuk said he didn't insist. The cook removed his repairs. 74th is Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u74	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, my 74th amendment refers to part four of this article, where it comes from what happens when a member of the Central Electoral Commission is on the electoral side. My proposal is to exclude a sentence that only suspends the status of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. I believe that in such a case, a member of the Central Electoral Commission should cease his mandate, i.e. resign from the Central Electoral Commission. I'd like to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u75	Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, an important question. Both Yuri Bogdanovich and the TSC paid quite a lot of attention to his work. I'll just say one thing. Naturally, you can theoretically imagine a situation where members of the Central Electoral Commission will mass go to the election of the national deputies. And in this way, since they will not be registered, and the law provides that they will suspend their activities in the CLTC, this may lead to the Central Election Commission not having the quorum necessary for its work. But it's basically like I think it's a personal, theoretical assumption. Because if we introduce this norm and, in particular, forbid members of the CBC to run, we're essentially limiting the constitutional right of a citizen to be elected or chosen. And by the way, this position was the subject of discussion when there were proposals about marriage, about close relatives, about relationships that are subordinated. So most of us, by the way, notice the table there says that neither the TSC nor the Working Group actually changed the position that was voted in the first reading was not able to take into account the different views, the problem in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I'll take the vote on the amendment. Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! On this point, I have a separate opinion, which is written down as a member of the Temporary Special Commission, where imperative was concerned, that a member of the Central Electoral Commission could not be a candidate for a deputy. Because then he becomes a judge in his case. And the warnings made by Yuri Bogdanovich are quite right. We have to be clear and clear, you want to be a candidate, so no one violates your rights, please make up your head's mandate, or a CTC member, and go on as a candidate, and instead they'll appoint another. I think that's the only way it's supposed to be, and there's no oppression of human rights and freedoms. This is simply an elementary norm to be foreseen in this law. So I ask everyone to vote in favour of this amendment, remove the last sentence from this fourth part of the article and remove the problem at all. Because we don't have to create a coalition even on the theoretical level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Is the offer understood? This is a proposal made by the Klukkowski People's Deputy, based by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. The temporary special commission was not determined. I'm voting on Amendment 74 of Jury Klukkowski. [[12:36:59]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Amendment 79. Yuri Borisovich, are you insisting on her? Now, I've already announced Klukkowski. Then we'll go back to 78.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u80	No, I don't insist on the 79th amendment, because the exact correct part has been removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u81	78th, Bogdan Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u82	It's supposed that the 78th amendment is only partially accounted for. In particular, there is no rule that a member of the commission may not be part of other State bodies or that members of the commission may not be close relatives or close relatives or presidential candidates or candidates for the Supreme Council. By the way, the last rule is the norm of today's Central Election Commission Act. I just don't understand why she's being expelled. So I would ask that the 78th amendment be taken into account not only in part, but in full volume as it was written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! There's no need, obviously, for me to make additional arguments, because I've already answered these questions, so I'm obviously going to have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u84	I'm voting for an amendment to the 78th of Bogdan Kostinyuk. [[12:38:47]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Zwania, Martinyuk, Garmash, 88th Amendment. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Zhuaniya, 89th and 90th. No, it's not. The cook took off his repairs. Bogdan Kostinuk 95, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u85	With regard to this amendment. Part 6 of article 9 is involved. It states that the chairman of the commission may be released only by a board of directors on behalf of his personal application or if he ceases to be a member of the commission. Logically, if the head of the deputy and the secretary were chosen by the members of the commission, they should be released accordingly. It is my amendment that applies to the granting of the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u86	This is Amendment 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u87	The release of directors from office as commission secretary, deputy board and head by secret ballot. Thank you. As they choose, they're freed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! I want to point out that we have actually completed, firstly, compared to today's edition of the grounds for exemption, that is, the termination of the powers of the members of the CLTC not only when the oath is broken. Please pay attention to this -- this is, indeed, other articles. But it was also foretold that he would suspend his authority on behalf of his personal claim. The point is that today there are several constitutional bodies, such as the Constitutional Court, by the way, the Higher Council of Justice, a qualification. Commissions that choose their leaders, including their heads. Undersecretaries and secretaries. However, legal tradition does not provide for such bodies, perhaps in view of the need to ensure their permanent work, the Institute of Refoulement, or the Secretary of the Commission, in addition to the cases and reasons provided for by law. That was why the discussion took place. And given what I said, we suggest that the room vote in the first reading. Moreover, for those who are particularly interested in the matter. The law has substantially expanded the list of members of the CLTC. Nine reasons. New reasons have emerged for violating the oath and for declaring it ineffective, for losing Ukrainian citizenship, for going to a permanent residence in another country. That is, we have substantially expanded the list of reasons, and this allows us to do so in cases where there is a violation, such as a violation in an organization of activities, may be considered to be a breach of an oath. Then the head or her deputies may be released on these very grounds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u89	I'm betting on the vote on the 95th amendment of Bogdan Kostinyuk. [[12:42:00]] For 114 Correction not accepted. Amendment to the 103rd Jury of Klukkowski. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on. Adam Martinyuk does not insist. There's no chewing gum. Klukkowski, 122nd Amendment. Are you insisting on her? He insists. Microphone, please, Klukkowski. This is page 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, it's about whose delivery may include the matter in the agenda of the committee's sitting. The current Law on the Election of the President of Ukraine for the Territorial and District Commissions already provides for such a right when three members of the Commission are required to consider the matter. There is a proposal to write the same rule in the Central Election Commission Act. This means that if three or more members of the commission insist, the matter will be considered by the commission. Of course, decisions will be made by a majority of votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the commission is that CEC is not really a representative body, for example, where the protection of the rights of the opposition's interests regarding the order of the day session and the measures of the institution of democracy provide for the presence of, for example, a third of the deputies as an initiative is sufficient to protect in this way the right of opposition to be included in the agenda. But CFCs are now an executive body, and therefore the general order is that when the members of the CWC are offered a vote and the majority of the votes are included in the agenda, it is appropriate. By the way, that's how all the other bodies involved in the Supreme Council are involved in terms of formation and composition. I already mentioned today both the Constitutional Court and the High Council of Justice, and the Higher Qualifications Commission, and some other bodies. All decisions of the CEC, including those relating to the adoption of the agenda, are approved by a majority vote. Please support the position of the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u92	Amendment 122 of Jury Klukkowski is put to the vote. [[12:44:33]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Amendment 128 Galini Garmash. Don't you insist? Amendment 123 - Gorbal. No, it's not. Klukkowski - 139. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, my amendment refers to the right to a particular opinion of a member of the committee, which allows the Commission to provide that the right to a particular opinion is reserved only for a member of the committee who was present at the meeting. However, this may lead to temptation before considering the relevant question, for example, to assign a member of the commission who may speak "against" to go on a mission so that he may not have a separate opinion. That's why the words "who was present at the meeting" are proposed -- to rule out that any member of the commission who disagreed with the commission's decision is entitled to a separate opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, members of the committee are to attend meetings and then be present at the meeting and then write their own thoughts. To your knowledge: Members of the Constitutional Court who are not present at the sitting cannot write individual thoughts and this, by the way, is a general principle that when you take part in the sitting you do not agree with its decision, you have the right to write a separate opinion. So it's a established practice. There are some arguments in Yuri Bogdanovich, but the commission did not support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u95	I'm voting on Amendment 139 of Jury Klukkowski. [[12:46:32]] For-143 The decision is not taken. 167th, Klukkowski, are you insisting on her? This is page 35. This is page 167, page 35. No, it doesn't. Klukkowski, 174th Amendment. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, this is a purely technological amendment, and frankly, I'm surprised why it's off. The point is that the law provides that applications to the commission may be filed both in writing and orally. For example, at a personal reception. At the same time, there is no norm that would require that a complaint to a committee be filed solely in writing. And that's why it's suggested that we leave this rule behind. The complaint is submitted only in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we should consult here. What are you talking about? The Law on the Consideration of Citizens’ Appeal provides that complaints, including complaints, may be filed on a personal basis. And if we want to make a novelty here, that is to say, if it's submitted at a personal reception, but it's a complaint, which is related to violations of the rules of the electoral process, then it should be made in writing at any rate. Well, I think that here, for the consideration of the hall, you can't state any doctrine here and bend down the hall that one or the other is right. But perhaps we could agree with Yuri Klukkowski’s offer here. I think that's exactly when. Since this is a complaint, since it can be the subject of a subsequent complaint and produces appropriate legal effects, including judicial review, it should be formalized. I think this is exactly the right amendment to support Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! If any person speaks verbally, they'll listen to it, then they'll propose to write a statement in writing. So let us write this down immediately, since we need to continue to consider it and make decisions. I put to the vote Amendment 174 of Jury Klukkowski. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u99	We can support this amendment. I mean, she's really like that. [[12:49:36]] For 197
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u100	Correction not accepted. Amendment 196 of Bogdan Kostinyuk. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Let's move on. Amendment 202, Zvaric, Kostinuk, Zvania. Is he insisting? Kostinuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u101	The first - reading edition foresees that the CEC forms the National Election Register. My suggestion is to delete this standard. Instead, the TSC predicted that the CEC would maintain the State Register of Voters. I don't know what the legal term "leads." What does that mean, "lead"? Where does it lead? Therefore, I ask you to clarify once and for all. And secondly, I'm going to insist that this rule be removed, because it's not going to be formed by the National Election Register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, last night on our first reading, you and I passed the Ukrainian National Election Register Act, and by the way, it's seen as a fairly democratic step to ensure the electoral rights of citizens. Naturally, this register should be run by a central authority, I mean in this case, the Central Election Commission as the highest election commission in the state, and there's really no need for any special authority to keep this register. That's why it's called the position that the functions of keeping this register, and the word "leads", that's how it is, if you think that you can editably specify that the function is "keeping" of the State Register, not "leading." But I think that we can actually improve it at the legal level even in the drafting of this bill when it's being drafted for submission to the President. As far as refusing and withdrawing this position at all is concerned, which does not correspond to the idea of an electoral process, I don't think there's any basis for that. So I would like to support the decision of the TSC, taking into account the editorial refinement that is now being made by the People's Deputy Kostinük.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u103	Amendment 202 shall be put to the vote. [[12:52:07]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Bogdan Costinjuk, 211. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Klukkowski, 220th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Kostinuk, 230th. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u104	It's about the President's license. That the CEC is handing the President of Ukraine a certificate of his election. As a matter of fact, only two people see this President's license: personally the President and the chairman of the commission. This certificate is not used anywhere else. At least our president hasn't used one in 10 years. Didn't he go abroad to some foreign summit and say, "Here I am, President of Ukraine, this is my certificate?" Can you imagine a situation like this that he's coming to somewhere like the President's Administration -- there's a security guard saying to him, "Prove a certificate." This is anachronism, this is the survival of the Soviet system. I propose that the President's identification be removed as unnecessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u105	I think either we leave or we rule out, none of this will change. But the logic was this: it's the C.I.V.C. that determines the outcome of the election. And then the legal form of legitimization, the results of the election, is the issuing of a certificate that actually legally identifies what a person has chosen as the president of the country. So I don't think we should be having some kind of long-term discussion here, it seems that this institution was, it's worth leaving and it won't be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u106	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 230 by Bogdan Kostinyuk. [[12:54:13]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Amendment 238, Klukkowski Yuri, do you insist on it? Klukkowski 266 amendment. No, it's not. Bogdan Kostinuk 299, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u107	Again, on the commission’s mandate to arrange for the holding of local referendums. I don't think the function of the CFC is to prepare, prepare, organize a local referendum. It's not a C.V.C. function. Let's not drop the C.V.C.C. to the rural level. I think there's enough wise people in the village to be able to hold this referendum or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Bogdan! In fact, if you look closely at the content of the article, the point is that CEC naturally does not hold or prepare a local referendum. But it should provide advice if there is such an appeal to the CLTC. It's good that we come out of what we think is that the village heads or boards are familiar and know how to set up the ballot form, and actually how to organize the work. But if they're going to ask for this help, if we have to do this to the C.V.C.C.I., I mean, give this kind of advice. Believe me, that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u109	I'm voting for the 299th Bogdan Constinuck. [[12:56:23]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 351st Jury of Klukkowski. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 324th. Let's take a look. The 324th is partially accounted for by this amendment. Please, it's Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u110	The point is that he makes proposals to the commission for the award of the commission’s mark and other State rewards. I don't see what this is about. I propose that this rule be removed, because this is not the norm of this law on awarding some honorary marks to the CFC and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! We considered, really, partly this amendment, because there was a word there that made proposals for the award of "state badges." We've removed the word "States." Each body, by the way, even the Constitutional Court has its own marks. And to ban the body or, in particular, to make suggestions for notable marks, I emphasize, for example, for the promotion of work there, by the way, to employees and not necessarily to the employees of the Central Electoral Commission, there is no harm in doing so. Thank you for your attention. It's an unprincipled question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u112	The vote is amended by 324 Welders, Kostinuk and other national deputies. [[12:58:08]] For-74. Correction not counted. Dear colleagues, let's finish with the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u113	Yuri Bogdanovich, there are no State rewards for the commission. Look closely at the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u114	399 Yuri Klukkowski? No, it's not. 380th Kostinyuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to pay particular attention to the first part of article 29 on the right of the CEC, and listen carefully: to require the necessary accounting and financial reports and documentation in enterprises of various forms of property. This applies to private businesses where the CEC may require documentation. So what are we writing here? Why is this here?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I ask you to read the whole article carefully, not just the first part of it. And in particular, the last sentence of this part of the third, paragraph 1 of this article states that he has the right to demand from all subjects, regardless of the form of ownership, but only from matters relating to the commission’s authority. The commission’s mandate is exclusive, not extended, interpretations. So if it's about, for example, giving some businesses room for agitation and, at the same time, refusing to give this room to another candidate under the same conditions, whether it's an exercise, and when this candidate complains to the CLTC, or if she's in a position to get an explanation: on what grounds was denied under the conditions of equality of candidates in the provision of this facility. So there's no harm to that, and that's a valid legal formulation, because there's a clear reference only within the competences and powers provided for in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u117	The vote is amended by 380 Bogdan Kostinyuk. [[13:00:48]] For-64 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u118	Hiring fee for use.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u119	For -64. The decision is not taken. Amendment 406 Yuri Klukkowski, do you insist? Microphone, please. This is page 83.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u120	I just wanted to point out that this amendment is actually accounted for elsewhere. So the word "refused" here is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u121	Thank you. Yes. 433 Amendment of Yuri Klukkowski. microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u122	I was convinced that this amendment would determine the stability of the commission's work, so I'm taking it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u123	Thank you. 449 - Bogdan Kostinjuk. Are you insisting? Microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u124	This is the amendment on the regional representation of the commission. And my suggestion is to exclude this rule from this law. Because, first of all, it's the decommissioning of the state, the use of budget funds. In 15 years, we had no regional representations, and the CTC worked less normally. Why and why is it a matter of tearing up states? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! In fact, no matter how much we add to the commission's powers of control for the local elections and referendums and advisory assistance, then the appearance of regional representations might be illogical. But since these powers are now assigned to the functions of the commission, and the country of 50 million more than 6,000 regional areas, effective deployment functions for 15 members of the CLTC are not increasing, as you understand. It's very hard. So at the Secretariat level, within budget spending, it's not necessarily in every region, because it's written "may," but it shouldn't be created, it's supposed to be made up of such representations. I think that let's introduce this experience, see how this works, and the Supreme Council in enacting laws is sovereign, it can sweat and make changes if there's reason to believe that this institution is designed or is acting ineffectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the problem is not so much and not only in regional representations. We need to take a closer look. The problem is that the apparatus will run the election. We need to start, read regional representations. The Commissions are the structural units of the secretariat of the Commissions. So we're giving the machine away for ransom. And obviously this is the problem -- we have to look at it, not that we have regional structures. If the elective people authorized by the Supreme Council were to do so, another question would be. We don't know what we're doing here. But I'm voting on Amendment 449. You're gonna have to decide. Please vote. [[13:04:05]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Amendment 450 Yuri Klukkowski, are you insisting on it, Yuri? No, it's not. Bogdan Kostinuk, 455th, do you insist? Microphone, please. Now, Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u127	It's about removing an article that deals in material and technical terms and socio-economic services for members of commissions, staff of the Secretariat and security guarantees and so on. See the article in the second paragraph. It is said that members of the commission receive a monthly personal allowance of 70 percent of their official salary. Is this the norm of this law? Are any of our Central Electoral Commission employees any other employees than Ministry staff, government officials and, after all, budgeters or doctors? Why is it a separate law to make such amendments that do not apply to this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, this is really what this is about. The law provides certain guarantees in the activities of members of the CLTC, and you and I are actually interested in being objective members of CLTC and not being affected by those or other instruments to which they relate, including wages, salary increases or removals, such as that, in particular, take place in separate institutions of government and administration. It is therefore a matter of transferring to the level of the law questions related to the determination of the size, including wages and wage benefits. And I think it's worth going along this path, and for all the other categories of organs, especially the judiciary, where the law should determine the conditions and order of payment of work, not the notable acts where I take or add. So I think it's not a flaw in the law, it's his advantage, and I'd like to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u129	I'm voting on amendment 455 by Bogdan Kostinyuk. [[13:06:27]] For 148 The decision is not taken. Amendment 464 of Jury Klukkowski, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u130	It's about the 454th amendment. This amendment contains a literal quote from the decree of the President of Ukraine of 8 December 2000 on the concept of raising the legal culture of participants in the electoral process and referendums in Ukraine. It tells us that the Central Election Commission can also use, in addition to budgeting, the costs of public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations, local self-government, international technical assistance, as well as funds from other sources that are not prohibited by legislation. Let's say we're talking about teaching more than half a million members of the district election boards. This training should be conducted by the Central Election Commission. However, the budget is not enough. So if it's in the President's decree, why don't we also establish it by law? We have denied the Central Election Commission the right to use special funds, i.e. only the State Budget. This is how help can be given to train and raise the legal culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, indeed, the project proposed for voting clearly provides that the Central Election Commission is financed exclusively by the State Budget. And the creation of any other funds, including specialized funds, is not foreseen. At the same time, there is a proposal made by our colleague of the national deputy Klukkowski, who would like the law to allow for the purpose of increasing the legal culture to be added to perform functions not provided for by this law, that is, related to the promotion of the activities of the Central Electoral Commission, the promotion of the legal culture of the constituencies of the electoral process, the involvement of funds in accordance with the legislation of the Ukraine of those individuals or others. I was personally on the committee to support this amendment. But by the decision of the commission, it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u132	The vote is the amendment of the 454th Jury of Klukkowski. [[13:08:59]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Amendment of the 464th Jury of Klukkowski. Don't insist. Amendment 478. Is the humping insisting? No, it's not. All the amendments that national MPs insisted on were voted on. Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u133	Honorary colleagues, the decision of the Constitutional Commission, whose competence, more faithfully, was passed on by Parliament's decree, is to approve it in a second reading and in general. I would like to support this decision of the commission in view of the substantial reform of the bill in relation to legal regulation, more faithfully, to the activities involved in the organization of the activities of the Central Electoral Commission. To the above-mentioned bill, as Alexander Moroz has already said, as co-chaired by this working committee of the TSC, there are observations, separate observations. They, by the way, signed this bill with observations, they announced, but the commission's decision to approve it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u134	Thank you. George Ponomarenko, then Alexander Frost with motive. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u135	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich! We voted on Article 7, we did not vote on the amendment, where a member of the Central Electoral Commission could be a candidate for the National Deputies. So six members of the CEC will go to candidates and paralyze the Central Electoral Commission. That's one point. The other one. We wrote down that this could be what Cloud said he could be a member of the government. And the third. Ending Positions. The term of office of the members of the commission elected for entry into force of this law is 7 years. So we have 3 members of the CLTC in six months and the term of office ends. So they're not going to be 7 years, not 6 years, they're going to be 13 years. All these observations are also in the comments of the Legal Department. As a member of the Working Group, I drew attention to this. I don't think we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u136	Alexander Moroz, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u137	I am now addressing the majority. We can't break any law in law. If the law has no reverse effect, how can we now introduce a seven-year term as a member of the Central Electoral Commission? It's the same thing as now let's vote for a 10-year extension. It's the same thing. You can't do that! And, then, what Gregory Grigorovitch and others said, if a member of the CBC wants to be a deputy, please make up your mandate and go as a deputy. It's not a violation of human rights, it's a choice of every citizen, and that's how he wants everyone to be in charge, whether they're candidates and together they're going to judge others. It's just a nuisance, I'm asking for 7 articles, and the End of the line is only to vote with the exceptions that we've just warned about and which are in the document itself. Otherwise, we have no moral right to vote for this law. I'd like to consider these circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Without excluding the provision that a member of the CLTC may be a candidate for a member of the MP, without excluding the provisions enshrined in Article 37 on material security, 70 percent of the allowances are personal, paragraph four is leave no matter how much benefits he has, what, 45 working days, calendar days, excuse me, is it written? Please tell me, who was behind this? Who else has such benefits from government officials? And this is all because part two and part three of article 37 is excluded, as you can see. [[This is the 460th amendment counted.]] Thus it is written that members of the commission, members of the secretariat, are no longer civil servants. When they were civil servants, there is, of course, a margin for rank. What if they're not government officials?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! We exchanged our motives. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a motion by the Temporary Special Commission on Admission in second reading and generally, as a law, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission, registration number 5235. [[new editor]] [[13:14:35]] For 285 The law is passed. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 64, Ukraine - 61, Communist - 0, Social-Democratic Party, Ukraine - 40, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 28, Labour Ukraine - 28, National Agricultural Party - 20, SPI - 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 16, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 15, Center - 4, non-fractional - 9. [[united]] A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Public Food and Services is being announced for consideration, second reading. Registration number is 4097-1. Yes. You're celebrating. Dmitry Sachash will report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u141	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted on 24 June this year on the basis of a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Registers for Accounting Transactions in the Field of Public Food and Services for the Provision of Passengers and Freight Services. The committee's decision was marked by a bill, which was to be accepted as a basis and a whole. But it was only accepted as a basis. The adoption of the bill in question at the 5th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is very important and aims to eliminate the inadequacy of the law by a legislative act in the area of licensing and protection of the rights of consumers of the services indicated. The bill was finalized. On the committee’s second reading, proposals were made by the national deputy of Ukraine Burjak, Galiev, Osika, and others. They're accounted for. At its meeting on June 29, this year, the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a second reading and as a whole as a law. The bill is being implemented by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority without notice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! It's about voting a proposal for a second-reading committee as a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Public Food and Services, registration number 4097-1. [[13:17:02]] For 216 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal? I'm voting on sending the draft law -- registration number 4097-1 for re-reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u143	Please be supportive. [[13:17:32]] For 230
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u144	Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax-Owned Raw materials in External Economic Relations, concerning the import of sugar-sores. Registration number 5423-1. About getting into the daytime. [[13:18:16]] For 255 Questions are included in the agenda. Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Omelyanko Grigorović is invited to report. Please take three minutes to justify the project and prepare Philip Pilipovich Budjighan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced a draft Ukrainian Law amending the article of the second Ukrainian Law on off-the-shelf raw materials operations, which provides for a financial mortgage in the course of the customs operations with the donor raw materials by introducing a simple avalanche bill for payment of import duties, taxes and assemblies in the case of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of sugar, sugar syrups and streams. The designated bill is in agreement with interested ministries and other central executive authorities. By the way, according to the State Customs, last year, sugar-cheese cane as a donor raw material accounted for 1 million 22 thousand tons, while exports of the product produced from the donor raw material amounted to only 735,000 tons. The difference is 287,000 tons. In the current year, in five months, sugar-cheese canes are already at 184 thousand. We have 73,000 tons left in Ukraine. That's why the implementation of the bill's provisions will enhance control over imports of sugar-sparing sugar from sugar syrup canes and diaspora streams. Removing questionable tax evasion schemes to the state budget and protecting a domestic producer. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council has reached a positive conclusion on the proposed bill. A professional committee on economic policy, governance, property and investment supported the bill at its meeting on May 13, this year. Please support the draft law and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u146	Thank you, sit down, please. Philip Philipovich Budzigan, of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment considered on 13 May this year a draft law amending the article of the second Ukrainian Law on Off-Economy Transactions in External Economic Relations. Registration number 5423-1. Imported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Authors: Slavuta, Kopilov, Kalenski, Lavrov, Kristenko Questions related to the import into Ukraine of cane sugar and sugar syrups and tax trails are regulated to date by the above-mentioned law. But as we know, practice is a criterion of truth. And for today, the picture in general is this: individual commercial structures use tax evasion schemes for processing large volumes of tax raw materials in Ukraine using fictitious companies designed to perform operations when the finished product under customs control is released into free circulation, and the commercial structure that carried out this operation disappears or is eliminated. In connection with the implementation in the internal market of large quantities of cheap sugar, sugar, sugar. There is a problem with sugar produced from sugar beet, and this is accordingly a major loss to a domestic producer. And because of the economic settlement of this issue in the draft law, the article of the second Ukrainian Law, "After the transaction of the donor raw material in external economic relations, the second paragraph will be inserted in a new edition, i.e. the introduction of a financial mortgage by means of the issuance of an avalanche for payment of import duties, taxes and congregations, except for customs congregations. The main scientific and expert management is proposing to accept the project as a basis, to take its observations into account in further work. Our committee is proposing to adopt bill number 5423-1 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u148	Yes, the position of the committee is proven. There is a need to discuss. Yes. They signed up for the board. Please give me a name. Please, Yuri Carmazin. He has the word of Alexander Baranowski, the second will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u149	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The bill proposed by the government has a seemingly good purpose, and again, I say, it seems that the strengthening of controls with the introduction of raw materials into customs territory and the seeming elimination of questionable tax evasion schemes and the creation of conditions for the development of a domestic producer. But when you see that two thirds of the factories have already cut off the oligophrenic clans on metal scrape. And today all we get is complaints: it's from the Jaroshov factory, it's from another factory. And it's all been destroyed. Then you must realize that this is only at first sight. And so, honourable national MPs, I urge you -- I don't want to discuss -- all of this, like the government's previous proposals, is completely awkward attempts, and I propose to reject this law. I'm not voting for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u150	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u151	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, let us remember that Ukraine has produced four and a half million tons of sugar recently. Today is one and a half. They lost jobs, as well as all the factories that produced the technology for the production of this product. They've lost the feed base. You know how many feeds have gone from weeding to feeding cattle, pigs, and others. From there, the pig’s head dropped, the production of dairy meat again decreased, the work in animal production, as they were, lost the factories mentioned by the previous speaker. Please tell me, someone counted the budget losses on this whole chain, I haven't named it yet? Who said it was not convenient to grow sugar beet in Ukraine but rather to transport a cane and process it in Ukraine? Who counted all these costs? Where is this wise man who would appear and stand before the people that he is today, to what has he been led, and what is next? This bill that we're proposing today is still, yes, it may not solve the problem to the end, but it does put some obstacles to today's uncontrollable raw materials and allow them to export processed products. They're bringing the raw materials now, they're not taking the products back. She's staying here. And they use those that don't pay any taxes, they don't pay VAT, they don't pay any taxes. In this case, this is to some extent under control. And whoever's here with any good intentions, I can't agree with the previous statement that it's worse than it was. So to my profound belief that this bill should be adopted as soon as possible. And yet it will give some impetus to the development of our drilling and less of such irresponsible imports of products and exports of finished products from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u152	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I don't want to be the lead weeder and expert on this subject, but I want to give a political assessment of this bill. We've heard from you many times, including today, and that's why crocodile tears protect the domestic manufacturer. First, they destroyed this whole sector, as it was done. We know some of the lines and comments the previous speakers made on this subject. And now these tears are theatrical about what needs to be protected. Who and for what? If those who introduced these bills specifically stressed the names of those left behind in these sugar factories, then we could discuss the matter more thoroughly. In view of the fact that no one has said it and will never say it, it is understandable why. Because this is the biggest mystery with the nature of the relationship of capitalism in the farm, it remains somewhere today under the cabaret, or somewhere on the other side of the discussion of the problem. For the sake of whom this law should work. What beautiful words, how to set up a financial bond, what beautiful words are the ovaled billet, etc. So I want to stress the following, this bill he's putting only those in his hands for today there's a sugar branch that wants to finally take control of it, including limiting the leverage of the sugar-cane imports. There's nothing strange about that. His perverted capital passes through the formation in a bourgeois independent Ukraine, and he wants to prove to you today that he can already take all the flows, including from the sugar business under his control and take advantage of exclusively his own interests now. The Communist faction will not take part in these dirty robes; it will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u154	Jaroslav Suhi, "Trudova Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u155	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, "Trug Ukraine" faction, the city of Zaporozhye. Dear National Deputies! I strongly disagree with the negative assessments of this bill. I apologize to those deputies. Whom I can insult now, those who have been giving a negative assessment here, or who haven't read it, or at least take a manual and read what a simple oval is. The issue that lies behind the Government's bill 5423-1 is not new to us in this room. On this issue, bills have already been tabled by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. To grow or not to grow sugar beet, bourgeois sugar, or bourgeois sugar, it is just sweet for both the proletarian and the oligarch. That's not what this bill is about. In the bill, the government, along with a number of Ukrainian national deputies, is trying to bring about a basic order, both in the financial market and in the food market. It's going to be the donor raw material or we won't be deciding in this room, because there are other bills that allow you to import and use in the following work. Respectful colleagues, the introduction of practices where the introduction of such tax materials as sugar, sugar syrup, and the flow of sugar makes it mandatory for tax authorities to submit a bill with a bank guarantee or with money, should certainly be legally supported. The thing is, in this way we're going to significantly increase the payment guarantees for the corresponding budget, I'm stressing the budgets that were postponed at the time of import duties, taxes and congregations. So we're not going to allow the evasion of payments by crafty businessmen, so we're compensating the budget, so the government still has to consider that in this case we're going to get some problems, but not for people, but some problems we're going to get for those who produce sugar. The thing is, it's going to be a new cost. And one, if we talk about politics here, it's the only possible price raise for sugar that we can't allow. We cannot allow the price parity to be balanced for sugar that we have today in Ukraine. In addition, because of the specificities of our enterprise, not all owners will be able to obtain bank guarantees because, for example, they work on rented equipment or have no assets. There are a number of other warnings that can certainly be implemented when preparing the bill for second reading. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Four speakers have already completed their consideration of the matter. Well, that's impossible, Andrew, we're done. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote the proposal of the committee and the acting deputies for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations, registration number 5423-1. [[concerning imports of raw sugar]] [[13:34:07]] For-300 Copy that. Dear colleagues, don't shout, you don't have to. There's a denial here and I can't put it all together. Please, with Black people's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I have taken an abominable stand for this Law. I want to explain why. You need to grow sugar beet instead of importing the donor raw material. We need to develop a sugar beet complex in our country. Sadly, though, the Supreme Council passed the Law on Graduational Material, about its import. This law is palliative, but it improves something in that Law, and so I was forced to vote for it with great disgust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u158	Yukhnowsky, School. I see everyone, my dear fellows. Note the list of questions that we need to consider today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u159	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have studied the situation of the sugar industry in Ukraine very thoroughly. And I absolutely assert that until the sugar beet harvest in Ukraine is brought to an average of 500 acres [500 ha], we will not solve the sugar problem in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u160	The school, please, is a faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, this is where we need to, I think, Ukraine eventually give up the donor raw material, like phenomena. Here we hear that the President of Ukraine claims that Ukraine is becoming a raw supplement to other developed nations. So we, the raw material supplement, he said, should also import the raw material. So we have to be able to, if we don't have enough beetroot, we have to do sugar production and we have to make sure that we have finally Ukrainian sugar instead of bringing its products here to Ukraine. That's why we voted in favour of this bill. He does not solve the question, of course, but he reduces the abuse. So I think this bill is going to have to be adopted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the review of our first reading. We were supposed to review the bill under number 2305, but the author of the project, Litwin Vadim Valentinovich, asked for his consideration to be postponed. I don't think there's gonna be any objection? He's the author of the project for the next session. Tomorrow's our last day, actually. Re-reading the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay, or the recognition of his bankruptcy. Rereading the first reading. I ask very briefly to remind the drafters of their essence, since we have already considered them. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. And please prepare yourself for the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u163	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The bill I submitted is aimed at strengthening the social protection of borrowers' employees and clarifying the powers of the trade unions to protect them. Two principles of position. First. The right of trade unions to represent the interests of workers in bankruptcy, which is enshrined in the Ukrainian law on professional associations, their rights and guarantees of activity. I'm going to point out that so far the current law does not determine who is to be a party to the collective agreement during the sanitization period, because this period is when the CEO of the borrower company ceases to be authorized, and the sanction can last a year, a year and a half, or more. We also do not know who is responsible for the operation of the current collective agreement. So we suggest that during the liquidation process, there should be a representative of the Trade Committee. Second offer, most principled. This is a question of how often creditors are satisfied, in particular when it comes to paying off their earnings. So we're making a proposal for bankruptcy of an enterprise, first of all, it's necessary to settle for a salary. This standard is in line with article 11 of the ILO 95 Convention on the Protection of Wages, ratified by Ukraine. This rule states that in cases of bankruptcy, or liquidation, employees are privileged creditors. I will also point out that this rule on the priority of pay pay in liquidation is also foreseen in other documents of ours, and in particular, I would like to remind honourable employers, who, I know, don't really want to support this proposal: President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine by decree of 25.05 04, i.e. in May, on urgent measures to close the arrears of wages, he committed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to speed up the introduction of a bill to amend the law on the reinstatement of the debtor’s ability to pay wages as a priority. Therefore, respectable colleagues. The Ministry of Labour also made proposals for priority. That's why the bill provides for representation, I repeat, of bankruptcy companies, and the second, when a bankruptcy enterprise, it needs to be calculated first on wages and then everything else. The bill was discussed on the Economic Policy Committee and was supported by what I am grateful for. There are some observations of the main science and expertise that will be taken into account. I ask you to support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u164	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, since we have already considered this bill. I got it. I'm asking the rapporteurs to focus on issues that raised doubts in the session room, why he wasn't supported. And to repeat what we've heard, well, that's not going to add any more arguments for making a decision. Please, I'd like to take this into account. Oleg Anatoliyovich Kraljov, please head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment. Yes, the bill itself is from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! On 3 June, the Committee on Economic Policy considered a draft amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery of the Indebted Debtor's Capacity - 1349, introduced by People's MP Stojan Aleksandr Ivanovic. The project, according to Aleksandar Ivanovic, aims to clarify certain social issues in the bankruptcy of the enterprise, the participation of trade unions in these activities and so on. A very large number of comments from Committee members were also made by the Scientific and Expert Office. One of the main things is that if you pay forward, a large number of businesses where liquidators have to pay some money, these funds will be taken from nowhere. Thus, the liquidator will know in advance that he will not receive and the court will not receive payment for its work. This will lead to a process of privatization being overshadowed. The Committee generally supports the bill and requests that it be adopted on first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u166	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u167	Next bill. By decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 6 February. So, what I'm saying is, even though the two bills go together, they're not alternatives. Moreover, this bill, which I will now report on, would be better taken into account and Stoyan taken into account in second reading. By a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 6 February 2003, the Committee on Economic Policy was requested to finalize the joint bill: improving the procedures for the recovery of the debtor's capacity to pay. These were laws: 1349, 2046, 2133, 2225, 2259 and 2273. We have reviewed all these bills on the Subcommittee and on the Committee and have drafted one of them. The vast majority of the proposals and comments of previous bills have been taken into account. And as the head of the subcommittee, I was registered with the bill. The project proposes a number of amendments to four laws, namely: the Bail Act, the Act on Enforcement, the Act on Recovery of the Insolvency of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of the Indemnity of Budgets, the State Trust Funds. The amendments to these laws provide for an improved enforcement mechanism for State enterprises, as well as enterprises with more than 25 per cent of the shares in the statute fund, belonging to the State. Disposal of property and bankruptcy issues. In addition, bankruptcy and the alienation of property for urban enterprises for enterprises of strategic importance in the economy and security of the State, in particular particularly hazardous enterprises and natural monopolies. The proposed changes give the executive authorities the opportunity to take timely and effective measures to restore the capacity of this category of enterprises. Most importantly, what is the law for? We have rejected the most controversial issues, left the main list of issues, and we have come in full thanks to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Economy, for their full agreement on the bill. They left questions that would allow the moratorium to be lifted on the enforcement of assets. Because today, a moratorium on the enforcement of property does not allow public enterprises and enterprises with more than 25 per cent of the shares in the statutory fund in the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u168	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u169	The Committee requested support and acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Oleg Anatoliyovich made a report on Bill 3586, or 3 bills. It's all yours, yes. And 3586, well, then it's separate. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! We've already discussed these bills, we need to renegotiate, we can just figure it out. Because this is the first time again, please let's write it down and we'll talk about it. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin. But I'd like to ask, my fellow Members, to make a clear position in favour and against. Prepare Michael Wolinz. We continue our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u171	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The Stoyan National MP raised a very important question, and the bill was tabled in July 2002. Today is the year 2004. Two years. For two years, this project has been operating here. I'd like to answer the question, "Who didn't feel comfortable with this law being passed?" This law was not convenient for those who had, who bought the factories themselves, and they today do not care what happens to those workers who are being set free. Let's answer these questions very clearly. And so today, this bill, which, thanks to God, is included, is proposed for employees to have a decisive vote, that is, a working group representative to vote in bankruptcy proceedings. Today, no one asks him at all. They don't care where they throw people. This is before the 1st article. In the 7th article of the law it is proposed that the decision of the electoral body, however many unions there are, should have been written by the unions, because there could be several unions. Next offer. Which is also the right thing to do, if the rescue plan provides for the release of workers who, for some reason, cannot be implemented in the recovery plan, then it is necessary to warn the primary professional organization in three months, to hold consultations on the trades concerning the use of measures to prevent or minimize the release. This is done in the entire civilized world. That is why this is in line with international conventions. We're saying that for some reason, someone doesn't want to. Politically, I call upon all the forces here today to vote immediately for the first and second reading of this bill. He's been in our house for two years. And this bill I analyzed, unlike the old one that was introduced on 11.07. He's been working on taking into account the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Department. And even though there are proposals for article 31, there are priority requirements for creditors who, from the sale of property, pay off their earnings, even if three months goes by, well, that's clear, that's what we have to do. Why, then, do we have it sold? Just like that? And that's why I'm negative about that. That's what the committee says in the first reading, we need to take it right now and give it to the president for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u172	Mikhail Volinec, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u173	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Ukraine's Act on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Bankruptcy basically does not improve the financial position of low-cost enterprises and improve the competitiveness of manufactured products. According to article 31, the regularity of the satisfaction of creditors’ claims is directed to claims secured by the mortgage, and the cost of the employee’s salary or regression debts and one-time job losses is not sufficient. Today, more than one billion dollars were owed to such businesses. As a result of the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery of the Debtor's Payments, the realisation of property outside the privatization process has increased significantly. At the same time, one third of the enterprises were privatized by artificial means, by bankruptcy at no cost. In particular, this law has a negative effect on the activities of coal industry, chemical industries, and other industries that are strategically important to the economy. As early as 2002, I wrote Bill 2046, which was supposed to avoid artificial bankruptcy. This is a situation where bankers with an entrepreneur are arranged, the estimated cost of an enterprise is lowered, and then the business is bankrupt, at the time they don't pay people's wages, and the business goes into the hands of a bank or some other unscrupulous creditor. It's this bill that I came up with how to avoid the mechanism of artificial bankruptcy of businesses and how to make the main creditor of employees who are owed wages. It should also be noted that in accordance with articles 5 and 6 of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 173 on the Protection of Employees’ Claims in the case of Insolvent Employers and Article 11 of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 95 on the Protection of Wages in the event of bankruptcy of an enterprise or its liquidation in the judicial order, employees employed in this enterprise will have the status of privileged creditors and will first receive their salary. And Bill 1349, authored by Alexander Stoyan, is specifically designed to address these issues. I propose to the people's deputies to support this bill. Regarding Bill 4424-3, which was prepared by Deputy Masterskin, there are rational proposals here, but at the same time the salary is not the primary payment, so I suggest you take a good look at this bill. In addition, those who are now counted off from businesses fall into the picture. For example, the Communist mine, which accounted for 12.5 thousand workers who were not paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u174	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u175	Thank you. Respectful colleagues, of course, are in a position to disqualify the use of the means that can be used in a criminal way to repair businesses. I'll tell you, sanitation is a very interesting phenomenon that can be used as any treatment for the harm and benefit of the patient. I would like to see this medical term, which has entered the economy, used here entirely professionally and professionally. So here I'd like to move away from political and any other grades. Here we have to make estimates that are purely economical and pragmatic. We can talk as much as we can about the fact that the unions in Ukraine, I agree with the first speaking Carmazin, what needs to be written down. trade unions. So it turns out that we have a diversification of the worker's protection, and the more it's going to protect, the more I think it's going to protect. Because this is not the case when the number of defenses lowers the level of protection. It'd be good here. The fact that workers do not like it has always been the case. The opposition of the trade union and the worker has always ended with the peace that man has enjoyed. And so the opposition has to end here. And that's why I would say that out of the proposed bills, Stoyan is not the best bill. He could have been perfected, and he would have been in the second reading, but from the list of proposed ones, it would have been worth supporting. First of all, because there are more detailed processes, there are no fewer generalities. And most of all. It's going to be hard, "hard" might be the wrong word, it's going to be harder to use, not for the benefit, not for the purpose. And I would like to express not only my opinion in this situation, but also my faction's opinion that in the first reading we will support, and then, I think, both the committee and the interested representatives of the union movement, which are at the same time the people's deputies, will develop and propose a product that will not be ashamed of the people's deputies and the higher legislature. So I emphasize that first - reading support is worth it. All the other bills are, of course, positive. I think the committee would have created a committee here, and in general, I'd like to separate it from the Supreme Council: four bills -- it's not worth bringing here. The committee should offer completed products. And I hope that with the help of the session room, we will encourage the committee to put to the next vote a full product for which we are all happy to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u176	Mikola Rudzkowski. He's gone. Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! The reason for the bankruptcy is the insolvency of the debtor. And this native sword must work, otherwise the market economy cannot exist. Government and Parliament are responsible for bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is the responsibility of management, the fault of the director, the manager, and the management team. There are three main causes of bankruptcy. The first reason is bad governance. The second reason is bad governance. And the third reason is bad governance. To raise the level of governance and the mechanism of bankruptcy in the market economy works. Now directly, as they say, to our rams. It's about financial bankruptcy. We're all afraid of the term "bankruptcy." It's actually normal in the market economy if it's local. It's not industry, it's businesses. This is a financial bankruptcy that entails the need for recovery and rehabilitation. It's the healing of the economy. And so there must be appropriate civilized mechanisms of bankruptcy. There should be no artificial bankruptcy that happens to us. They're artificially bankrupt, then they're bought for nothing, and then they're misused. So we have to put obstacles in the path of artificial bankruptcy. That's the first one. And the second. There is a need to resolve the conflict between the interests of trade unions and employers. And that's what this bill is about. He suggests taking into account the interests of the labour force, protecting workers in the event of bankruptcy in the event of the employer’s insolvency. There must be no damage to the labour force. And that's right, that's normal. And that's why he deserves this bill to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u178	Yes, well-respected colleagues, with motives. Jaroslav Suhi and Valentina Seminouk I see hands. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Trouble Ukraine". I am deeply grateful to those national MPs who supported two of our bills yesterday: 4241, 4241-1. [[on the payment of arrears of wages]] And if you recall, in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it was precisely what was needed in connection with this bill to amend and supplement the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery of the Payability of the Debtor. I'm paying attention to Article 31th, where it's relevant to this bill that it's said that the first requirement of creditors is to pay off the payout. In view of the fact that we should put our legislative shoulders on the solution to this extremely painful problem as soon as possible, and not paying wages is not just a violation of social justice, it is also a blow to the internal market. I urge the session room to support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u180	Yes, Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u181	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The proposal that Alexander Mikolaiovich proposed is, indeed, substantial. But what Mr. Kings proposed today in a bill for the issuance of securities in the form of bonds is mini-pyramids in closed stock companies. That's why the scientific expertise in this regard is very important, and it needs to be taken into account, because we have both closed and open stock companies today. If we let go of an uncontrolled bond circulation, it could actually be, weptfully end up for such businesses. That's the first one. Second, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we somehow managed to discuss the three bills together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u182	No, two.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u183	Two. Three, actually: 1349, 1341-1 and already generalized 3586. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u184	No, we'll discuss it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u185	I think it would be very wise to have a task to create a working group and all those proposals that are also in further bills to do one document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u186	What's more, almost a dozen of the same drafts are actually the same. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the basis of the first draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. Author: Alexander Stoyan. Based on the base. 1349 Bill. [[14:01:43]] For 128 The decision is not taken. It is up to the vote to be adopted on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve procedures for the recovery of the debtor’s ability to pay. Registration number 1349-1. The author is the national MP of the Kings. [[14:02:18]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The laws are rejected. You can't do that, we've already reread it twice. Please, dear fellows! Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u187	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, speaking MPs, spoke of the importance of the laws: both mine and the King. You can't just leave them. I ask you to give me a mandate to unify these laws, assign them to the authors, and submit them to the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u188	Please. I think that the legislators can reconcile positions and make a project. I can't give such an assignment, unfortunately. Off-the-shelf procedure, please. And at this point, the bill is rejected. We can't do it again first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u189	Quickly, the Socialist Party, the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, I took the floor for reasons: why our faction did not vote. The point is that today these bills do not say what we are going to do with those state-owned, state-owned and time-consuming enterprises that exist in Ukraine today. I mean, for example, the Dniprogerginal PCZ, that's what I'm talking about in this room. Today, there is a mere insolent lotion of this company, of which to this day it is trying to make a few small businesses, to congregate just to leave Ukraine without such an important enterprise that it can serve us today. As a result, we could not vote that this norm was not prescribed in this law either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have another 12 minutes to think about another project. Wait, don't yell at me, because we continued our work for 15 minutes, and I announced it half an hour ago. Therefore, a bill to amend some of Ukraine’s debt laws is being promulgated. Registration number 3586 is a government bill. Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich, a member of the State Commission on Securities and Markets. Please, very briefly. And then after.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u191	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The need for the adoption of the Act is due to the fact that the application of the existing mechanisms for the transfer of debt to stockholders can be used as an additional means of restoring the capacity of Ukrainian enterprises, of improving their financial and economic status, and of preserving complete property complexes. The bill introduces changes aimed at introducing mechanisms for transferring company obligations to securities through the issuance of bonds. It should be noted that the absence of a mechanism that operates around the world, the transfer of corporate liabilities to securities, creates conditions for undesirable consequences for individual enterprises and for the economy in Ukraine as a whole. Now I don't want to say that in Ukraine, in every area, between 20 and 30 percent of equity companies -- they're in a state of rehabilitation. The result is the sale of property for nothing, almost. This is the award of the best creditors of enterprises and the acquisition of those who privatized, first of all, these are labour groups, it's a concessional subscription to none of these because they're not allowed to go into the recovery process and they're not able to save their businesses. In addition, after the business is bankrupt, its name becomes unnecessary. And what's always written, what's created since then, is not working anymore. This bill is therefore designed to create an additional opportunity for businesses. Moreover, the creation of pyramids is not possible because the new issue of bonds is impossible to pay back on old bonds. This allows you to save your business, save your jobs, not sell your business. In addition, we support the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that this can be done once a decision is made in the sanatorium plan. This can be included in the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u192	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the head of the subcommittee of King Oleg Anatolyovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u193	It's another bill. It's the Biruk bill. Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! Oleg Anatolyevich, wait. We're looking at the government bill number 3586 with you. The next one will be yours, MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u195	Considered at its meeting on 13 May the draft on the recovery and bankruptcy of the debtor's capacity to pay. [[Registration number 3586]] [[Amendment to the law of Ukraine]] In response to these changes, economic societies will be given the right to change debt into debt securities during the recovery process. [[We agree with the comments, if the comments of Matsuka are included, then the whole law can be voted on.]] In our view, this is normal and we propose to adopt the bill as a basis and to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u196	Thank you. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yes, Solomon insists. Please. That's right, Carmazin. Carmazine, I'm sorry. Carmazine first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u197	Carmazine didn't come. Yura, wait! That's how you have to go around those who are struggling to protect their capital. Dear colleagues! We're considering a government bill with you today. And I have this question, whether with disgust or with pleasure, I will vote, as my fellow MP, Mr. Vladimir Kirilovich, says, to vote in favour of this bill. On the one hand, it seems to be making a makeover on the beast’s spear of capital. But on the other hand, it's impressive. What a desperate attempt is being made to put this capital on a chain on which it must be located in order not to bite the owner of its owner by accident. So this proposal is to swap debt on debt securities so that this situation can be properly managed under capitalist management conditions. It has to sow, on the one hand, some illusion that can be managed. That you can manage this capital and its behavior, and on the other hand, it offers some little opportunity for that. To still keep him within limits. So our faction thinks that in this bill there are more advantages that allow us to tend to the idea that we can use this bill to a certain extent, and somehow control it. So I'm putting out my opinion and our faction's position, and we're supporting the committee's proposal for this bill to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u198	Thank you. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u199	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. To the bourgeoisians and the adoptives of the capital, I would like to explain that the Law of Ukraine on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Pay-as-you-go, where it is now proposed to make small changes, was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 14, 1992. And the Securities and Stock Exchange Act, which is also proposed today, was passed by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic on June 18, 1991. The trouble of our government, a small, limited government, is that it has not yet changed these laws. That's why we don't live that way. But this government is constantly supporting you who speak bourgeois and so forth. And I'm pointing out to you that this is 1991, 1992, and these are basic laws that around the world would have long been changed and made in a civilized way. With regard to the proposals of a specific government. It offers the exact right mechanism, absolutely right, I repeat, the mechanism that can be used today. And that proposal made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority to present a new edition, and in fact to add only the words "if this is provided by the Sanitation Plan." And so they're in favour of acceptance in the first and second readings of the Science and Experimental Authority. And here's the whole point: "The transfer of the debtor's liabilities in the First Recovery Act, and in the second, the securities and the stock exchange, I'm going to write it down in this way. That's why I would ask that this law be passed would improve the situation that the laws that were passed at the time, back in 1991-92, and which unfortunately by the new power, the new Ukrainian state, which has not yet formed an elite, to learn at least to analyse the legislative base that we have. This elite, unfortunately, is neither accepted nor cancelled. I'm going to vote in favour both in the first and second readings, if we get enough votes, because I'm very sorry that we failed Stoyan's previous bill just because he betrayed his faction and got out of it. In fact, the bill was good and needed by people. And for political reasons, we took and overturned that law. The sooner we get back to him, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u200	Thank you. Shall we be clear? Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, this is a bill for which I will vote with pleasure. This is what happened. Borrowers are now being sold because it's impossible to restructure debt. They are sold either by whole property complexes, or they are given parts and sold. This law allows debt restructuring with the consent of creditors. Creditors can agree, if they have that desire and that will of good, they arrange, the debt is restructured, the business is left, it works: recovery, sanitation, loans are invested, costs. And they make money, and then they pay their debts gradually. Can't she pay them today? But if he works, he stays, he can pay off in the long run. So we're saving the business. And we store the workers, the jobs, the production. I mean, this is a good place. I think this is the mechanism that will help solve the issue. So I urge you to vote in both the first and second readings for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-30-m0.u202	Thank you. But, Vladimir Kirilovich, you didn't help as much as you ruined the vote. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s debt laws. Registration number 3586. [[14:16:15]] For 202 I'm with your permission, again? Let's put it again on the vote. Vote. Mobilize, please. [[14:16:43]] For 203 Dear colleagues, it's clear we have a break. After the break, we will vote again, since it is 14/16. This morning’s session is closed. The beginning of the evening work is at 4:00 p.m.
