ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:44]] Registered -442 442 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Master Vladimir Yakovic. Let's welcome Vladimir Yakovich, we wish for all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements and messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Alexander Masenka to the President of Ukraine for the solution of the questions raised in the address of citizen Alexander Bondarenko. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:05]] For-86 Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine concerning the Presidential Decree of 29 November 2003 “On measures to improve the effectiveness of the State’s external and political activities. [[Tarasyuk, Carmazin, Zarubinsky, and others Total 27 deputies]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:42]] For-170. Request supported. I am voting for this request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:04:04]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Yurya Boyka to the President of Ukraine for his unsatisfactory preparations for the celebration of the 190th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birth at the national level. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:36]] For 202 Request supported. I'm betting on the vote to send this request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:04:58]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Victor Musiyaki to the President of Ukraine on the order and deadline for the appointment of the Ukrainian National Deputy President. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:36]] For 208 Request supported. I'm betting on the vote to send the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:58]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the President of Ukraine about the state television committee’s inaction and radio broadcasting of Ukraine in connection with violations of Ukrainian law enforcement information subjects in the area of social morality. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:30.]] For-182 I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:50]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Valery Assadchev to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the parliamentary appeal of January 19, 2004. Ms. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the decisions of the Malian District Court to pay off the debts of the Malian school teachers. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen with the rise in Hersonianism and the baseless efforts of individual political and public organizations to stop its cultivation. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the responsibility of business subjects who carry out questionable metallurgical operations. Mr. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the classification of the posts of civil servants of officials who have been given the authority of the State inspectors of seed and planting. Andria POLITA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on insufficient funding for the implementation of the Chernobyl Construction Program in the Kirovograd region. Igor GRIEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on violations of current legislation by the leadership of the Ukrainian State Customs Service. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the transfer of the Uzin garrison home of officers to the administration of the Kyiv District State Administration. Victor ZAIČKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical financial situation of the Open Shareholder Company Sevastopolgaz, which resulted from the failure to pay the costs of Naftogaz National Shareholder. Mr Michael DOBKIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine for failure to implement the decision of the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Vladimir MATWEYEV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund for work to eliminate the consequences of an extraordinary natural situation in the Mikolai region. Stepan HMARA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to violations of the constitutional right of citizens of Ukraine to education related to the issuance of diplomas on the completion of the Odessa National Law Academy signed by the independent person, Kival. Petra SIMONENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory work of the Open Shareholders Association “Poninkov’s Paper and Paper Combination” of the Hmelnicki district. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing scheme for the construction of the Novopskov-Uzhgrad gas pipeline. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to anticipate funds in the programme “Progressive compensation to citizens of Ukraine for the loss of money savings” for the payment of the debt due to the former Ukradrzegstricht in front of citizens. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the recognition of unpaid payments to teaching staff in the Žitomir region in 1997 - 2000. Mr. Ivan TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the administrative obstacles created in the area of agricultural and financial activities in the area of agriculture in the Suma region. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the delay in granting the Ministry of Agrarian Policy an answer to the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning the illegal sale of property of the Genicé wine plant. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Presidential Decree of 15 September 2003 on measures to improve the efficiency of public administration in the field of environmental protection and the use of natural resources to ensure an annual increase of 20 per cent in the financing of geological exploration and their uniform distribution over the course of the year. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the payment of benefits, compensations and guarantees to citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and the timely repayment of their arrears. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, for the illegal collection of tax added to the value of 20% and other deductions from the sums accrued for damages incurred from the 1998 and 2001 floods. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision “On measures related to the satisfaction of the public needs for printed products” of the Ukrainian State Budget 2004 Act. Mr. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the imbalance in the pensions of former members of the State Security Institutions. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the involvement of executive authorities in the work of the Mikolai, Kyiv and Kharkiv Regional Associations of Farmers. Ms. SLABENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine since 14 April 2000, corresponding to his mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and insufficient work on the issue of the Volin district government. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the cancellation of the obligations of payers to budgets and government trust funds. Vasil Bartkov to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of a secondary school in the village of Vitwicz in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Alexander KEMENYASA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the financing of the shore-building work on the Blue River of the Irsav region of Zakarpat. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the negative situation created by the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence in the State Enterprise. [[LONG, BICHKOV and others. Total 5 deputies]] Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the requirements of articles 97 to 100 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the decomposition of land in a reformed collective joint venture “Lukowskie” in the Malin region. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of land and property in the collective joint venture “Southern” in the province of Zaporozhye. Mr. Andria SKILLA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the dispatch to the city of Lviv of an independent commission for the purpose of verifying the commercial activities of the Western Operational Command of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Alexander MASSENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for assistance to the inhabitants of the Orgitsky district of Poltava to resolve the issue of the collection of funds under the court’s decision. Andrija POLIETA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation by the Ukrainian Supreme Court of Commerce. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights of the local government and the community of the village of Strilkova in the Herson district of the land for the breeding of livestock. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for ignoring the appeal of the citizens of the Sak district regarding the shortcomings of land reform. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the verification and elimination of abuse of office, the overstatement of official authority, the violation of privacy by Conenka, Mikita and other employees of the Office of the Department of Crime, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region, and the invocation of responsibility. MICIVILLE to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal possession of a home by a nursing sister of the Territorial Social Services Centre for Pensioners and Disabled Persons of the Pecher district of Kiev. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the Labour Code regarding the right to receive material assistance. Mr. Vladimir FILENKA and Ms. Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of the laws of the prosecutor’s office in the process of closing criminal cases involving crimes committed by persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for construction on the territory of the Žedenija Forestry Area of Zakarpata, the basis for the rest of the closed stock company “Dinamo-Kiyev Football Club”. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of the inhabitants of the territorial community of the village of Vasilyvka in the district of Odessa. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights violations, abuse of the position of officers of the investigative and operational group of the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Prosecutor's Office, prejudiced and one-sided trial by the Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crime. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in association with the limited responsibility of the “Pilipchansk” of the Bilocerkow region of the Kyiv region. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation by the leadership of the Preyaslav-Hmalnicki State Forestry Department of the Kyiv Region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act on the payment of cash assistance to a prosecutor. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the Prosecutor's Office of the city of Kiev and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of the requirements of article 40 of the Constitution of Ukraine and of the Law of Ukraine on Citizens' Appeal. Alexander HUDIM to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for non-response to the failure to pay taxes on budgets on a particularly large scale. Mr. Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take action in order to meet the requirements of Ukrainian legislation in the field of social morality. Mary MARKUS to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the allocation of the “Tavria” car to the disabled group of the Great Homeland War. IOFFE to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the robbery of the office of the Equality Regional Organisation of the “Trudova Ukraine” political party. MICHAEL PAVLOWS to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine regarding the transfer of the small family group of the “Cation” factory to the municipal property of the city of Hmielnickýk and the prevention of the eviction of the new owner of the family factory that live there. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the collection of debt on wages from the Hmielnicke Renting Plant. Ms Vladimir LÄCHENKA to the Minister for Agriculture Policy of Ukraine on the state of the machinery of agriculture. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request to review the size of pensions. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for violating the leadership of the South Operational Command of the current Ukrainian legislation. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer of defence land to the balance of the Black Sea Village Council of the Kointernov district of Odessa. MIKOLI KULČINSKI to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of medicines free of charge to non - diabetes patients living in the village of the town type Krasils of the Plains region. Georgia KRUCHKOVA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the response of the Ministry to statements by some foreign media that incite citizens of Ukraine to protest and increase the pressure of the West on Ukraine. Mr. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the financing of salaries and expenses for teaching staff in the region of Montenegro. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of shareholders and the working group of the closed association “Victoria”. Deputy factions and groups, representatives of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the legality of the verification of society with limited responsibility of the “Teter” Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of the General Directorate of Internal Affairs of the Kyiv Region. Ms. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister for Economics and European Integration of Ukraine on the transfer of the road to the town of Vinograd from the city council balance to the road balance of the Zacarpathian Road Service. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine regarding the situation in the Svetłovod Region of Kirovograd as a result of a violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Reform of the Agrarian Sector. Michael PAWLOWS, U.S. Department of Health of Ukraine, Head of Hmelnicka District State Administration, regarding the non-closure of the infection ward of the Hmelnicka District Hospital and the release of medical personnel. A group of national MPs to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the clarification of the criteria for the approach to the previous allocation of expenditure to centralised measures and ministry programmes for 2004 in the division of administrative and territorial units. Stepan HMARI to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for providing detailed information on the biographical data of the Ukrainian National Deputy Sergio Kiwalov, in connection with his application for election as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Mr. Oleg HUMENUKA to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of Ukrainian legislation by officials of the authorities of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration and its representatives in the Ternopil region. John VASUNIKA to the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the elimination of conflicting information on privatization and financial and economic activities of the open limited stock company “Kretelekom”. Vasil BARTKIVA to the Director-General of the Ukrainian Post Office, “Scarposta”, for structural changes according to the Program of Optimization of the Mail Network of the Ivano-Frankov Department of “Scarposta”, which will lead to the reduction of the jobs of the Dolin post office node. The SASA branch is headed by the Zacarpathian Regional Public Administration on the implementation of measures to ensure the right to housing and other property and constitutional rights of the veterinarian, the resident of the village of Gorinchev in the Zakarpat district. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the observance of sanitary and safety standards in the construction of demolished buildings on the street of Pankovsky in Kiev. GUMENUKA to the head of the Ternopil State Administration for the settlement of the situation of the use of the Ternopil region’s grain reserves. Igor ŠURMI to the city’s Kiev head for the increase in fares for subway and ground transportation. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the head of the South West Railway for the legality of the South West Railways, which block the construction of the AZS of the closed stock company “Ukrain Petroleum”. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council for urgent action to improve the warning of technological and natural emergencies, with the removal of circumstances that threaten Ukraine's security and security. Mr. Stanislav PCHIDENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of a children's sanatorium complex called "The Builder", which operates on Volina. Mr. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Lutsky Rehabilitation Centre for Visually Disabled Persons. Jaroslav KENZYORA and Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the basis of the burning of international hostility, the humiliation of the honour and dignity of the Lviv community by the President of Ukraine during his last stay in Poland. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal appropriation of Sergio Kiwalov to the Ukrainian national deputy. a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Second Class Justice Adviser. The Lieutenant General and the use of legal measures for the prosecution's response to repeal such a decision. All the parliamentary requests that came in have been made. Dear colleagues! We've spent 25 minutes asking questions, we've got 20 minutes left to speak from factions and groups. Leukko Lukyanenko, of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko, to prepare Kuzmuk Alexander. Please comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Leukko Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko faction. I am authorized by the faction to state that our faction will not sign a treaty because, in fact, if the President does not participate, it does not matter. Our manoeuvres to facilitate the resolution of the constitutional reform problem will not be resolved in this way, so we decided not to sign it. Now I would like to inform the members of the Supreme Council of the group’s trip to Transnistria. This group consisted of four individuals. I led the delegation, then the Academy of Phillips, then the editor-in-chief of the Ukrainian republican newspaper "Democratic Ukraine" Lubo Stasov and Vadim. From the Vadim Magnetic Strategic Initiative Center. In Transnistria we worked fourth and fifth. During that time, we became acquainted with the situation of Ukrainians in Transnistria. I'd like to tell you about it. Transnistria is an ancient Ukrainian ethnic territory, and it was only by Stalin’s own will that it found itself outside modern - day Ukraine. There are 600 to 700 thousand people living there, more than 300,000 are Ukrainians. There is a general impression of the situation of the Ukrainians. In Moldova, in principle, there is a desire to invade Romania. This process is considered inevitable by a large number of politicians in the Transnistrian Republic of Moldova, and so Moldova can be ruled by Bucharest. The Ukrainians do not want to be ruled by Bucharest, so they bow to Ukraine. The population of Transnistria can be divided into three conditional parts: some who want to acquire Russian citizenship; others who want to acquire Ukrainian citizenship in a categorical way; and a large portion that will buy that citizenship that will be easier to form. In this regard, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is absolutely weak and does nothing to speed up the granting of Ukrainian citizenship to those Ukrainians who want to acquire Ukrainian citizenship. For example, the consul works in Chisinau, and he comes to Tiraspol once a week, while the Ukrainians turn over 10,000 who want to form this citizenship. We've developed a number of suggestions as to how we can accelerate. But without the revitalization of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it won't be possible to do that. I'd like the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u3	Time's up, Levko Grigorovich. Alexander Kuzmuk of the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine has a word. Prepare Yuri Pavlovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On the eve of February 23, I would like to extend a warm welcome to all who have dedicated their lives to the ministry of the Fatherland, with the worldwide festival of the Protector of the Motherland. Motherland is a country, it's our land where we were born, it's the air that we've been breathing since childhood, it's our family, it's the people that live next door. Who protects his land, his country, not only with weapons in his hands, but also with his work, his loyalty, his perseverance, his courage, he is the defender of the country. The Ukrainian people traditionally honor their defenders for their patriotism and courage, their self - sacrificing military service, and their ability to cope. The feats of liberation, the soldiers of the Great Motherland, who won the battle against the enemy, the heroes of Afghanistan, and other hot spots of the planet, will live forever in our memory as a model of the Ukrainian people’s mobile service. Estaphet's feats are immeasurable and immeasurable and confirmed by the actions of officers and soldiers who, at the risk of their own lives, have done everything they can to prevent the real danger from the inhabitants of Sevastopol, which has been borne by the terrible discovery of war times -- a powerful seamine. Every day and time of service in the peacekeeping forces in Iraq, Sierra Leone, Liberia, South Lebanon, in the territory of the former Yugoslavia is a test for Ukrainian peacekeepers under extreme conditions as close as possible to combat. Every minute they're ready to protect people's lives, rescuers of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, militias, and military internal affairs agencies, BSS. Ukrainian border guards are confidently protecting the territory of the State. And not only should we remember this but we should also make sure that our supporters feel that the state will never leave them alone with the problems of today. We should soon consider a bill that foresees short-term reductions of tens of thousands of military personnel. And our job is to make sure that the military doesn't have hopelessness, disappointment in the chosen profession. Our faction takes precedence over the following questions. First. At the National Security and Defence Committee, there is a bill on reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where guarantees are to be entered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u5	Yuri Pavlenko of the "Our Ukraine" faction to prepare Alexander Bandurki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u6	Yuri Pavlenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" regarding the use of State tax administration for political persecution. Dear compatriots, Ukraine has become a country outside the laws of democracy. In the pursuit of self - preservation, the authorities go beyond the laws and the Constitution. In the country, violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens of repression have become the norm. No one will be surprised by the censorship of the media and the darkness. The right of citizens to true information is brought to the only possibility: to read and see between lines. The mark of the penal authority of CNSC times is acquired by tax services, which now fight against shadow multibillion-billion-dollar VAT ring schemes converted into a tool to fight those who have the courage to express their position, not to support the official general line. No one cares about the fact of the violations. If it were an object, the crime would be sewn up. Nothing but a desire to put on the knees of those who do not compromise with their own conscience has the courage to say "no" to try to maintain an active regime, is explained by the will of tax officials. The subjects of permanent attention were enterprises that were once established or headed by deputies from "Our Ukraine" of all levels, from the deputies of local councils to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is remarkable that the waves of particular tax attention fall into those periods when "Our Ukraine" took a principled position on the subject of what is called constitutional reform. The "Our Ukraine" faction draws attention to the heads of the State Tax Administration and their guardians, stop covering up the name of the state and cover up the gross violations of the law, stop using the authorities called to monitor compliance with tax legislation as an instrument of political persecution against the opposition, stop suffocating in your arms those enterprises that generate the incomes of all levels and provide hundreds of thousands of jobs to our fellow countrymen. We want to warn Ukrainian leaders about the existence of legislation, criminal responsibility for pressure on Ukrainian national MPs. We call on the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate and evaluate the facts of political persecution by the State Tax Administration. In the event that these requirements are not met, we are ready to give an adequate answer. We are announcing the establishment of a permanent focal point that will investigate the abuse of authority and service by officials engaged in political persecution. The head of the faction "Our Ukraine" is Victor Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u7	Alexander Bandurka from the Democratic Initiative Group. Prepare Peter Simonek for the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u8	The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, Democratic Initiatives authorized me to make the following statement: "Millions of Ukrainian citizens, pensioners looked forward to the adoption of new pension legislation. Such a law is passed by us and not alone, but it has given the pensioners nothing but disappointment. I've got a bunch of letters here, and I'm sure that's the same letter from other major MPs: "Please leave a previous calculation of 55 percent of my average salary because I lost 5 bracelets on a new basis." Second letter. The disabled of the first group Mitsai Vasil Semenović, the pension supplement - 1st of December, Mitsai Vasili Semenović - 2 bracelets, Gnienia Maria Ivanovna - 1st of December, Udjanska Tatyana Trofimovna - 2 bracelets and this list can be continued. I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers is now required by our commission to take additional measures to protect war veterans, war veterans, war veterans, military veterans, because there are still laws that we do not have in place to provide for these categories. Well, that's the last argument. In the 28 grand district. 796 pensioners. The number of pensioners who were entitled to a recalculation is $26,000. 900. The number of persons whose pension is less than the amount they received after the law has been counted is 18 grand. 562 bracelets. Who's got the pension cut? There's only one area. I don't think you need to comment on these numbers like you don't need to shout, honourable Communist MPs, it's your level to break the speaker. You know I'm not going to answer that, because it's not my level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u9	Thank you. Peter Simonenko of the Communist faction of Ukraine. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I would just like to remind Mr. Bandurk that he himself voted in favour of this pension reform, and now he's telling us by addressing the letters that it seems to have caused great harm to our people. We had to listen to the Communists before and not vote in favour of this reform. Dear colleagues, despite constant assurances by the Cabinet of Ministers about price stability in the internal market, the price crisis that erupted in May 2003 continues to grow. It is indignant that, in the light of the government’s declared economic uplifting, the increase in gross domestic product, which the government is constantly reporting, but unfortunately, it costs industrial products, construction materials, built technology, housing, food and nonfood, services, transportation. Thus, in the past 12 months, the price of rent has increased by 48 percent, by 41 percent, by boat rotors by 100 percent, by 30 percent, by 30 percent, by agricultural production by 20 percent, including by 33 percent, meat and meat products by 11-15 percent, milk and milk products by 20 percent, bread, bread and bread products by 30 - 50 percent, and wheat flour by 75 percent. The cost of residential services in Kiev increased by 25 percent, by 20-35 percent. In March, too, prices will be raised for the road in the Kiev subway to one bracelet and for the city’s land transport to 75 copies. In Kharkiv, the subway fee has already been raised. Since January 1, in Chernig, tariffs have risen to cold water one and a half times, and from February 1st to the heat and hot water supply to another 40 percent. At the same time, official statistics say the opposite: as if the consumer price index last year is 10.9 percent, the total inflation rate is 6 percent. This causes, to put it mildly, to look at. Since the standard of living of the vast majority of people is rapidly declining, the wealth of the dilapidated land is increasing. We demand, in accordance with article four of the Ukrainian People's Income Index Act, that the government conduct an indexation of the population's monetary income due to the fact that the value of the consumer price index exceeds the threshold of the indexation set at 101 percent. As a result, the Communist MP's faction demands. First. Establish strict government control over the prices of goods of primary necessity. The other one. To implement the Money Income Index Act, the population should immediately index the wages of workers, scholarships, social benefits, and much more by 25 percent. Third. Cancel the sad Cabinet Order 1783 "On Measures to Improve Citizens' Pensions" and return pension insurance to the standard of living. Four. In April and April, introduce the minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u11	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Prepare Sergey Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! On February 10, 2004, the President’s decree approved the position on the State Committee for Natural Resources. In particular, it has been established that the sphere of authority of the State Committee, among other things, refers to conservation and eco - commerce. Environmental scientists argue that the biological and landscape diversity of conservation areas cannot be considered a natural resource that is exploited. At the very least, it is surprising that the Ministry, which is authorized to act specifically in the field of environmental protection and conservation, stresses conservation rather than the development of conservation areas and their protection from industrial interference, are deprived of such opportunities. Even more surprising, though, is the idea of subservienting reserves, orders, and other conservation areas to a structure that uses natural resources industrially. The same needs to be noted with regard to eco-generation, a system of eco-generation, which at the national level ensures the conservation of biological and landscape diversity. According to this decree, a system designed to maintain life-saving environmental functions, to create the necessary conditions to reduce environmental impacts, has become a function, not of the environment, but of the Committee on Natural Resources. Apparently, the link between eco - commerce and conservation was due to the fact that in some pseudoecological circles the economy was considered hunting grounds. Moreover, honourable national MPs, I can say that this is a direct violation of a whole series of legislative acts. Just name: Ukraine Act "On the National Environmental Networking Programme of Ukraine 2000-2015", Ukraine Act "On Ukraine's Natural Conservation Fund", Ukraine Act "On Environmental Protection", finally Ukraine Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2004". [[paragraph 12]] [[Article 11]] [[Article 16]] The irrationality of the scientific and legal approach to the distribution of powers between these offices only exacerbates the other component of the issue, namely the political one. The so-called "drug use issue" has deprived the Ministry of Power in the field of natural nadr. Without waiting for the decisions of the Provisional Commission of Inquiry to determine the existence of abuse violations, the next step was taken to restrict the powers of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which I have already mentioned. So, given this, the NDP faction finds that, when under constant pressure and systematic limitations of authority, the Ministry of Environmental Protection seems to want to turn it into an advisory body. So the NDP faction is strongly protesting any action that has a negative impact on the environment and the health of our population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u13	Sergey Matvienkov of the faction of Ukraine, prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u14	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention once again to the disastrous situation that has arisen with the provision of drinking water in the Donetsk region. The most densely populated region of Ukraine is now on the verge of an environmental disaster. Because of the poor quality of drinking water, the number of diseases in the population is increasing with kidney disease, gastrointestinal tract. There is a real threat of outbreaks of acute infectious diseases, the quality of drinking water is deteriorating, and water treatment facilities are in most cases lacking. Those who are in need of reconstruction and repair. At the same time, the decision to allocate 10 per cent of the value of non-standard water consumption to the budget has not been overturned, and the tax remains to be taken seriously. Why consumers using inadequate water standards should still put funds in the budget for this questionable pleasure. As a result, the Donetsk Region and the city of Mariupol, in particular, are unable to carry out the necessary maintenance work to improve the quality of water. The same enterprise has been transferred to management and has in fact ceased to be State property, and they are beginning to set their monopoly prices on drinking water. As a result, water supply to more than half a million people in a city is constantly at risk of collapse. The drinking water situation of the rural population was particularly acute. To date, only 1 in 4 rural people has the opportunity to use centralized water services. Others take water from wells and a small number of artesian wells available. The quality of water in them is largely not controlled and does not meet the requirements of sanitation standards. The need for drinking water in the region exceeds actual water consumption by tens of times, according to geological exploration below the horizons is characterized by not high mineralization and rigidity, and can be used for commercial drinking water supply. But such activities require substantial support from the State. The funds for this work have been provided in the State budget by the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 1999. This allowed the operation of over a thousand artesian drilling wells. The 2004 budget for the development of a mineral and raw material base, totalling 248 million rubble, provides for drilling of artesian drilling wells, but does not determine the amount of the work. In keeping with our shared responsibility with the Government for the well-being and health of the population, I believe it is necessary to invite the Prime Minister to make an appropriate decision on the financing of the drilling of the artesian drilling wells, particularly in the Donetsk region. The cost of drilling the artesian drilling wells within the limits of the cost of developing the mineral and raw materials base should be included in the amount agreed on in the first reading of the 2004 budget, i.e. 35 million grivens. I request that you consider the request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u15	Igor Shurma of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (United), from the faction of this party. And get ready for Stanislav Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u16	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine draws the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to an alarming situation that resulted from a call by the so-called All-Ukrainian Open-Deputy Union to the councils of all levels by the national producer "Economic Ukraine". [[united]] The title does not contain any signatures, but it is inspired by recommendations such as the urgent xeropion of documents sent and the immediate handover of the last to every MP, without exception, the immediate creation of parliamentary groups of the "Economic Ukraine" association on the boards of all levels. Ukraine's Social Democratic Party MP has always stood in the position of supporting a national producer. [[united]] However, we never support those who, with a noble purpose, use dirty technologies to achieve their goal, but when we call things their names: to obtain political dividends. The next act of the organizers of the action seems particularly presumptuous. A decision by the congregations of the so - called All - Ukrainian Open House of the “Economic Ukraine ” has been added to the mailing material, which states, among other things, that the head of the union has been elected the national deputy of the Ukraine, Leonid Krawczuk. The faction of the SDPU (o) completely refutes this information. In connection with the events noted on February 4, Leonid Kravchuk addressed district, district, city, city councils with a corresponding letter. The letter states, in particular: "I am deeply outraged by the insolent act of the organizers of the mailing company. I never agreed to be the head of the so-called All-U.S. Open Deputies Association of Economic Ukraine. I don't know anything about the congregations of the so-called All-Ukrainian Open Deputies Association "Economic Ukraine," which, following the text of the decision, elected me head of the union and decided to ensure the creation of the parliamentary centres, the economic Ukraine on the boards of all levels." The MP's faction has every reason to say that a similar act of "Economic Ukraine" would discredit not only itself, but the entire Parliament as a whole. By making a claim for the real people who had taken action with the sending of illegal documents, they deliberately went into violation of Ukraine’s laws. In view of the magnitude of the campaign, as well as the fact that these documents contain props for the Supreme Council of Ukraine with reference to Parliament’s leadership and directly to Mr. Lithuania’s Head, the faction claims that the organizers have done moral harm not only to Kravchuku but to Parliament as a whole. An unprecedented act must be assessed by the legislative body of Ukraine. Taking into account the so - called, parliamentary union that was actually created in the Supreme Council, which the chairman announced at the meeting of the Parliament. Please give a protocol commission to the Committee on the Rules of Deputies of Ethics.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u17	Stanislaw Nikolainko of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u18	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is deeply concerned about the social problems that the citizens of Ukraine face today are also low pensions, and insufficient preparation for spring-field jobs, and rising prices for utility services, and so on. But we are particularly concerned today that the media that say this, who are struggling with these problems today, remain in danger of being shut down. From yesterday's show, "Trust" has been stopped for the purpose of broadcasting "Freedom" radio. A President’s wish has come true, and he has not been at peace for many years. This is a further evidence of the pressure on the media, which has an independent view of political developments in Ukraine, particularly on Radio Rocks, public radio, 5th TV, the newspaper Rural News, and many regional media. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine views this as a trend, as a deliberate destruction of an independent democratic and true mass media space. It's nothing more than a poorly disguised preparations for the presidential election. For 10 years now, independent journalists have been under State pressure. Despite public warnings, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, individual democratic states and many independent international organizations, the pressure of power is increasing. Socialists have always respected the opinion of independent journalists. Remembering that Freedom Radio is one of the few independent sources of information in the country, we demand that the radio "Freedom" be preserved. The Socialists once again claim that by trying to stop the release of "The Village News," removing freedom radio from the network, seeking to shut down the 5th channel, the authorities are putting pressure on independent media. And I'm informing all citizens of Ukraine and the deputies present that Friday, tomorrow, February 19th at 1300 on Mayan Independence there will be an action by the opposition forces to protest the repression, and I apologize, Thursday, February 19th, at 1300, there will be a protest on Mayan Independence. We call on all the Chinese citizens of Ukraine to join in these actions. We must do everything we can to ensure that the Constitution is implemented in Ukraine, and we must do so to ensure that there is no illegal closure of the media. Get your hands off the independent media!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! Representatives of the MPs and factions who applied for the speech have already taken advantage of this right. There are two applications for a statement in connection with a dissatisfaction with the answer. But I'm asking very briefly, because we've already taken eight minutes. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. And then Michaela Melniczuk. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u20	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! I want to, today, turn my attention to today's issue, which concerns us directly, is the implementation of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. This problem was discussed repeatedly from this rostrum. However, executive discipline regarding the consideration of parliamentary appeals remains at the same level. Today, I'm going to stop at the question of how this rule works, and more faithfully, it's not the Cabinet of Ministers. In most cases, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the rules of the provisional Rules of Procedure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as defined, quote: “The written answer to the outcome of the hearing shall be given to the National Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the First Vice-Prime Minister, the Vice-Prime Minister to whom the address is addressed.” The government ignores and instructs other State authorities to send answers to both the deputies and me, as well as to the head of the Special Supervisory Commission. Here is an example: On 6 November 2003, the Special Monitoring Commission requested the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide detailed information on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 26 December 2002, No. 406 "On the report of the Statemeine Foundation on the implementation of the privatization programme." I would like to remind you that the government's stated decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has instructed the government to consider matters concerning the adequacy of the functioning of the Holding, state-owned companies whose activities are detrimental and during their privatisation, I repeat, significant violations of legislation. However, instead of answering the reply sent to the commission about the measures taken by the same Cabinet under the law and regulation. The Ministry of Economics and European Integration and the State Property Fund were instructed to send such information. Obviously, the government believes that the relevant branch of the ministry is better aware of what the government itself is, of the state of implementation of this decision. So the Commission's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for action regarding the further functioning of the holding companies has been answered, let me make a point, from the first Deputy Minister of Economics, in which he writes: on 16 May 2003 he was sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for his proposals for the further functioning or liquidation of companies that are loss-making. What steps have been taken to implement the Supreme Council Order of December 26, 2002, and the government has not responded. [[No. 406]] Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have many such examples here, I will give them all in writing, taking into account the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, in accordance with the decisions of the Supreme Council, I ask that one of the plenary meetings answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u21	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I am acting in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u22	Thank you. I follow the Rules. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues, I'm not going to this rostrum for the first time to comment on the answers I'm getting. Today and today, I would like to make a statement in response to Mrs. Kolko's three questions that I have asked the Attorney General's Office of the United States for the protection of the rights of Vyshgrad Pajovics in the Kyiv region and for their unlawful actions in relation to the heads of the Kyiv food industry of Pak. I got the answers from the template. No one from the Attorney General’s Office and the Kyiv Prosecutor’s Office went there. No one asked people why they complained about the Supreme Council, other institutions. And the courts of Kyiv and some of the judges were not the ones they were robbing, but the ones who were the robbers. And so I am very grateful to Hennady Andryovich Vasilyev, Attorney General, that on my third appeal, he has appointed a commission, and today there is a thorough review of what is going on in the area of illegal activity. Using the minutes given to me, I would like to make another statement about the incident that took place in the city of Chernivts. The explosion in the central gastronomy. I want to say that the business that Colossus works for today is a powerful Ukrainian enterprise. I know the leaders. And that's why I'm calling from a high-level rostrum to law enforcement officials in Bukovina, to the M.E.S.A., to the B.S.A., to the D.A. Take your time, Your Honor, and conclude that you should not cheat on the balloon, for crime may have come to the Shire. Someone doesn't like the work of this company. And so I'd like to study this very carefully. I'm addressing the head of the D.E.A., the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, please provide assistance on the spot and take care of yourself. I have more, in my opinion, and the information that's coming. There are other games, and there is an attack on those who work openly, honestly on Ukrainian soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u23	Yes, dear colleagues, we are. From Mikola Kravchenko's procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u24	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I asked for Law 4507 three times yesterday, which deals with halting the illegal seizure of driving rights. The Communist faction and other factions have supported me twice in the fact that this law must be considered. Today, although it was agreed yesterday that the law would be considered, everything has been done today in order for it to go beyond the limits of the Rules and not be considered. I'm asking you a question, Vladimir Mihajlovich: if the Secretariat is working for the police, you're giving him specific tasks, then you've conspired with the police. Why? Because on what basis does Bill 4281 now stand before my bill, which will not allow today to consider an important bill that concerns ten million drivers, and the lawlessness that is now on the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u25	I want to answer that the first deputy Adam Martinyuk is responsible for preparing the material for the session. Need to be commented? No, it's not. Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u26	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to ask what law the Rules govern the Supreme Council Secretariat when it forms the agenda for the next day? Yesterday I approached you, approached you as a manager and asked you to include the issue of the Zaporozhye area in the agenda. Five months off! It was promised. Look, yesterday we finished the day-to-day review of Law 4459, today my third question should be. Not even in the daytime, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u27	Can I give you an answer? Dear colleague, the point is that the decisions we consider must be voted on immediately. Unfortunately, we can only vote ratifications on Wednesday, so we agreed to put them on the first on the fourth so that we could vote, because that's a decision. Because if we discuss the decisions, there'll be no result, you know? Because of this, we moved to Thursday, not because we didn’t want to do it, but because we don’t vote today. That's why we did it. I'd like to ask, fellow honourable Members, that we are very brief on the documents, the treaties that we need to ratify, the questions will arise, so let's discuss them. Those who do not raise doubts, we will immediately vote. Is there no objection? A draft law on the ratification of a protocol approving the order of organization and joint anti-terrorist measures in the territory of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States is being announced for consideration. Yuri Volodymyrovich Zemljanski, the first deputy head of the Security Service, please, very briefly. And Oleg Grachev, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine has submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the ratification of a protocol to approve the order of the organization and to carry out joint anti-terrorist measures in the territories of the States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. The project has been drafted in accordance with Ukrainian laws on the fight against terrorism, on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states, and on the order of admission and conditions for the presence of forces of other States in Ukraine. This provision sets out the organization and coordination of joint anti-terrorist measures in the territories of the SND participating States. The legal status of participants in joint antiterrorist measures is also defined as the cessation of terrorist activities involving the capture of hostages, high - technology and environmental hazards, diplomatic facilities, and other objects. And the detention and destruction of terrorists, terrorist groups, and organizations. The ratification mentioned in the protocol will contribute to Ukraine's security departments, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Ukraine's State Border Services, in the implementation of Ukraine's laws on combating terrorism, on Ukraine's Security Service, on the police, on Ukraine's State Border Service. At the same time, the position is proposed to ratify with warnings aimed at protecting Ukraine's state sovereignty, such as the following two essential warnings: First - Ukraine will take part in joint anti-terrorist measures by assisting parties in the redeployment of forces, special anti-terrorist formations, the transfer of arms or the provision of arms to a party who asks for its power and resources to comply with the requirements of national legislation; second - in the case of a participant in a joint anti-terrorist action in Ukraine, he is responsible under the current legislation of Ukraine. The ratification of this protocol will contribute to the fight against terrorism in all its manifestations, stressing the consistency of Ukraine’s actions, which are used to meet its obligations to the world community to counter this negative phenomenon, will testify to the support of our State of Action against Terrorism in the directions defined by UN instruments and other international organizations, to enhance the authority of our State in the international arena. Please support the ratification of the Protocol on the Approval of the Order of Organization and Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u29	Thank you. Any questions, dear fellows? Three minutes. Please sign up. Sign up, three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, please answer that question. In your report as a whole, you described the substance of the draft Ratification Act and it made it clear that Ukraine would take part in joint anti-terrorist measures, by contributing to the parties' relocation and so forth. But there is also the Law that the decision to take a joint action is made by mutual agreement between two or more parties. Who represents this side of ours, in particular, and who makes the decision except for the Supreme Council, which will adopt the law. Directly after some kind of action. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u31	According to the Law, which was passed in March 2003, it's the Anti-Terrorist Act, and that's where it's defined. The invitationing party, with the agreement of the President, is addressed to the Head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u32	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u33	Lucenco faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Considering that I have long been a terrorist to Mr. Earthling, I give the word to my colleague Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u34	Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u35	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, please tell me this document wishes to bypass the Supreme Council so that it will be possible to bring troops into other countries when it is only by decision of the parliaments, and this is quite different. Now I don't understand why it's just the countries of the SND and why it's not the geography of the military. And please tell me, will it not happen tomorrow that if the protests are appropriate in Ukraine, there will be Georgians here tomorrow with oaks, Armenians and someone else and will not be rolling these "democrator dubs" of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. The Security Service enters, and an agreement is signed with the SND participating states. Moreover, we have many treaties with European countries on a bilateral basis. We have no secrets in the fight against terrorism. We're working with everyone on this. Besides, what you're worried about is that they can be used to stir up some kind of mass disorder is definitely excluded only because the law is clearly written down, I called them, a list of operations that they can perform. There aren't any. These are diplomatic representations, they're environmental enterprises, they're transport, they're nuclear power plants, they're only on these objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u37	Bogdan Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u38	Kostinuk, National Movement of Ukraine, Our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u39	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u40	Jaroslav Kandzer, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Yuri Volodymyrovich, unlike my colleague Baranowski, I really don't worry about Armenians and Georgians coming along and going. I am concerned about another, totally realistic prospect of ratifying this agreement, knowing our northern neighbor, who can unceremoniously deposit a dam in Ukraine without asking our permission without having any ratifications with us on this matter, so it is not excluded that tomorrow the Russian FSB will have an agreement that the so-called Chechen terrorists will be looking for or those who blew up the Moscow subway there and so forth. It's a completely open threat and a real threat to what I'm talking about. Why should we, Ukraine, be bound to such a sad prospect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u41	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! The excluded appearance of FSB employees here without our invitation to come here is excluded. And if the President agrees, only then and only after this list of issues can they be involved. And now we need to engage some other country's divisions for now, but this might happen, and this is a situation, and we're going to be doing it, maybe in the future, and for now, it's not necessary. I think you should give your consent to approve this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u42	Thank you. Please sit down, Yuri Volodymyrovich. Oleg Alexiyovich is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u43	Honorable National MPs, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On January 14, the Foreign Affairs Committee approved the above protocol to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Protocol on the Ratification of the Regulation on the Arrangement for the Organization of Joint Anti-Terrorism Arrangements in the Territories of States participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States was signed by the President of Ukraine in Chisinau on 7 October 2002. The first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Yuri Volodymyrovich Zemlinski, was directly involved in the position. The aim of joint antiterrorist measures is to put an end to the terrorist activity associated with the apprehension of hostages, high - tech and environmental hazards. diplomatic facilities and other facilities, as well as terrorist arrests, destruction of terrorist groups, and formations. The adoption of the law does not provide for additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine, nor does it require changes in the existing or new laws of Ukraine. The National Security and Defence Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the issue of law enforcement, on European integration and on budgetary issues, support the ratification of the Protocol as a whole. The Legal Policy Committee recommends ratifying the said Protocol with warnings already contained in the draft law. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have any comments or suggestions on the bill. Those two warnings offered by Yuri Volodymyrovich have already been made. Thus, we record that the party who asks the Ukrainian side to ask for joint anti-terrorist measures in the same way recognizes the warnings as indispensable to itself as part of the Protocol. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u44	Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. Questions? Well, please sign in. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Anisim, a faction of Communists. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u45	Thank you. There is, there is, there is. Dear Oleg Aleksiewicz, the thought here was that there might be branches of foreign Powers. It is in this law that there is insurance against other foreign Powers in the territory of the Commonwealth participating countries being able to use such illegal methods to combat so-called terrorists and who they record in this cohort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. First of all, there is a definition of terrorist activities. It is only this activity that can be described as terrorist, not some kind of event, demonstration and so on. With regard to the presence of foreign troops in Ukraine, this can only be at our request in accordance with the legislation in force for Ukraine, that is, with the participation of the Supreme Council. The participation of our units in other CIS countries can be only, respectively, when a particular other party is addressed to our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u47	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Oleg Alexiyovich, I'd like to hear a specific answer, because I didn't get it from Mr. Earthling. Nevertheless, by ratifying this law, whether we will not legitimize the deployment of our armies, certain military formations to other countries without the decisions of the Supreme Council. How appropriate legislation requires this today. Isn't that how it's going to be? There's no way around it. And next. Today we know of events in Chechnya, Transnistria, and we have already entered Iraq. If we keep sending our boys to hot spots, or if we don't scream the same feedback from those countries, those peoples to Ukraine, it's not going to be the cause of the unstable situation in Ukraine itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u49	Well, as far as sending our troops to Iraq or any other country is concerned, it is by no means relevant to this protocol. The protocol was only signed by the SND countries, which is the first. Secondly, as I have already said, the deployment of our departments to the SND countries can only be at the request of those countries and only with the execution of all the legislation in force in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u50	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u51	Dear colleague, here you are constantly asked what will happen if we accept this protocol and ratify it, and what will happen next? I am interested in another order: please tell me, what will happen if we do not ratify this provision and this document will not enter into force and Ukraine will therefore not coordinate its anti-terrorist activities with the CIS countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u52	I think that, first of all, we will find ourselves isolated from certain information very important, which concerns terrorist activities, which are unfortunately of an international nature and are spread, let us say, to many countries, including, let us say, certain information for Ukraine. That's the first one. Well, the second one, being one-on-one in the fight against terrorism, will no doubt lose.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u53	Yes, thank you, time's up. Sit down, please. Please, Yuri Carmazin. On the board are the names that are registered. Let's take six minutes to talk. Well, the committee offered three minutes. Let's vote then. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u54	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I was very surprised to hear now that the committee's proposals were, and all they're saying is that they're giving warnings, which are already ratified, which are already signed. I'm paying attention to you. The Committee on Legal Policy has issued six warnings, and only two are included. So what? Did people just work like that? You can't see their position. And when you report here from the rostrum the position of the committee, at least you have to say that there are six major warnings from the Legal Policy Committee. Here are four of them. And, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I, as Ukraine's national deputy in accordance with the Constitution, passed a bill entitled “On the ratification of the protocol on the approval of the order of the organization of joint anti-terrorist measures in the territories of the States parties to the partnership”, where the warnings were registered and recorded. The secretariat revised it and said, "We won't register." I don't know where it says in the Constitution that a staff member of the Secretariat is supposed to perform an audit of what a national MP writes. I want to know who's working for who? I ask that you note that this audit ceases. Now I offer these warnings, only two of them are included, not in the full part. First. With regard to military personnel and other persons who form part of special anti-terrorist formations on the Ukrainian side taking part in joint anti-terrorist actions in the territories of the States participating in the Commonwealth of Independent States, legislation on the part of the party in whose territory the measures are being carried out is not being applied in any way under the jurisdiction of Ukraine. We need to learn to protect our own interests. The other one. Special means and materials to provide special anti-terrorist forms of the Ukrainian side are property of Ukraine and cannot be held or in any form alienated by the party that asks. Third. A party that asks the Ukrainian side to compensate military personnel and other persons who are part of the special anti-terrorist formations of the Ukrainian side and members of their families, all costs associated with injury, disability or death in the event that such damage has been caused during the time of the participants in the joint anti-terrorist action in the territory of the party that asks, in order and in size, the legal provisions of the party that asks, should not be less than those provided for in the applicable laws of Ukraine. In doing so, the parties to the joint anti-terrorist measures of the Ukrainian side and their family members are kept in full scope of the benefits, guarantees and compensations established by Ukraine's current legislation for payment in such cases as the party who asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u55	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u56	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are now considering a very important document. The key issue in this document is how terrorism differs from guerrilla warfare and where this very important difference persists. If the guerrilla struggle is being waged by his own greatness, then terrorism is being done by certain bribed groups for money, foreign, foreign! From this point of view, do not the so - called velvet revolution in Yugoslavia and Georgia fall under the definition of terrorist activity? And the last of it. Dear Mr. George Soros publicly made statements repeatedly that he was proud of how his money, his grants worked decisively in Yugoslavia and Georgia, and as Georgian boys were on their way to Yugoslavia, they studied the Yugoslav experience of the famous resistance group and applied this experience to Georgia. I'm not a supporter of the Soviet Union and CPRS Shevardnadze, but I'm against even being treated by people like Sam's uncles, including in the modern, so-called independent states that were formed in the space of the former Soviet Union. Democrat grantors in panic! That we have witnessed and performed repeatedly from this rostrum in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're afraid there's finally going to be a merger of forces and all the groups that want to gain power beyond the will of the people, but with the will of Uncle Sam, it's going to be stopped. So, of course and clearly, our faction supports this document and we're going to vote for it to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. They made suggestions and I'll put them in order of arrival. First, the President of Ukraine's proposal to approve this law, and if it does not pass, then we will vote on the proposal of Yuri Karmazin. May I have your attention, Your Honor? I am voting for the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Approval of the Regulation on the Arrangement for the Organization of Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in the Areas of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States - Registration No. 0127. Please vote. [[11:28:21]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Approval of the Arrangement for the Organization of Joint Anti-Terrorism Measures in the Areas of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. [[Registration number 0127]] Please vote. I'm proposing to the President, he has a priority right. [[11:28:58]] For 233 Decision taken. I ask the committee to rework and prepare it for second reading. May I have your attention, please? The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Agreement on the Restoration of the Rights of Deported Persons of National Minorities and Peoples is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! There is a need to discuss this bill. All conclusions are appropriate. Can you put it on the vote right now? I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Agreement on the Rights of Deported Persons of National Minorities and Peoples. [[Registration number 0162]] Please vote. [[11:29:55]] For 235 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments is being announced for consideration. All conclusions are necessary. Is there a need to discuss it? You don't? Then I ask you to vote. I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Albania on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. [[Registration number 0144]] Please vote. [[11:30:42]] For 317 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on commercial shipping is under review. All the necessary conclusions are. Is there a need to discuss this? You don't? Then I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on commercial shipping, registration number 0149. Please vote. [[11:31:30.]] For 312 Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on maritime transport is being announced for consideration. All the necessary conclusions are. They have a positive character. Is there a need to discuss? There isn't! Then I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on Maritime Transport. Please vote. [[11:32:15.]] For 305 Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of the Maritime Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Main National Committee of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is being announced. All documents are, they're positive. What are the warnings, dear colleagues? I can't see! I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Maritime Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Main National Committee of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, registration number 0151. Please vote. [[11:33:11]] For 329 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Austria is under review. The conclusions are all necessary; they are positive. Any warning? I can't see. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Austria. Registration number 0153. Please vote. [[11:34:02]] For-300 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Scientific and Technological Cooperation is being announced for consideration. All documents are required at the right time, and are of a positive nature. All conclusions are positive. What are the warnings, dear colleagues? You don't? Then I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. Registration number 0157. Please vote. [[11:34:53]] For 294 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities is being announced for consideration. Such an arrangement is proposed. For the report, up to three minutes, answers to questions, up to three minutes, reports, three and three. And we'll have a discussion in 15 minutes. Any warning? You don't? Then I ask for a report from the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Kremeny Vasil Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is defined by the legal, economic, organisational and financial principles of state regulation in the field of technology transfer. And it's aimed at ensuring the effective use of the scientific and technological potential of Ukraine. The bill, among other things, aims to halt the unauthorized use of intellectual property and to prevent violations of rights in technologically resupplying enterprises. National and sectoral systems of scientific and technical, economic and patent information are envisaged according to international requirements recognized by Ukraine. Provision is made for the training of professionals in intellectual property and transfer of technology and innovation. The law regulates the legal relationship between the acquisition and protection of the rights to objects of technology created at the expense of the State Budget. The adoption of the law will allow for the cessation of an uncontrolled outflow beyond Ukraine of the domestic results of scientific and technological activities and the non-entry into Ukraine of morally outdated technologies and non-individual products. The Law will open the way for the development of contractual relationships between those who create technology objects and those who use them. It will allow internationally accepted payment arrangements for technology transfer entities, as well as the resolution of a number of specific problems in this area. The Act on State regulation of transfer of technology is in the interest of the State. Because its adoption is aimed at enhancing the efficiency of using its scientific and technological potential, organizing a civilized technology transfer, channelling the funds derived from the implementation of non-material assets for the reproduction of the scientific and technological sphere. The implementation of the legislation will protect the economic interests of the State in terms of use. For the domestic technology market, an effective mechanism will be put in place to prevent unsanctioned outflows from Ukraine of domestic scientific and engineering developments. The adoption of the law will enable the development and implementation of new progressive technologies, increase the impact of scientific production on the socio-economic development of the state, promote Ukraine's integration into the pan-European scientific and technological space. So please consider and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the minister. Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u60	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! You point out that the purpose of this bill is to preserve and effectively exploit intellectual potential, as well as the orientation of domestic science and industry to create and produce scientificly competitive products. So two questions. First, how much did Ukraine lose intellectual potential in the years when the current President of Ukraine is in power, how many have gone abroad by young talented specialists? The second is the creation of scientificly competitive production, the problem of Pavlovgrad, the disposal of solid fuel. There are the development of Ukrainian scientists to create solid-fuel generators where solid rocket fuels can be used. These developments are not noticeable. Second problem: RLS on a surface or spatial wave because of the disagreement between the different ministries, including the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, is not working either. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Mr. Manchulenko, I would like to say that, indeed, especially in the early years of independence of Ukraine, there was a significant outflow of personnel of higher qualifications outside Ukraine. But in recent years this drain has stopped significantly, and I would like to say that the actions that have been taken by both the President of Ukraine and the government have contributed. And the Supreme Council, for which we are truly grateful, have helped improve the working conditions of scientists, raise wages -- this is the case with the National Academy of Sciences. It is very important that a special line be adopted in this year's budget to improve the material and technical base of scientific research. Because often scientists went not only because of low wages but also because there were not enough conditions for scientific activity. These issues are gradually being resolved, and I am convinced that with further support in the field of science and higher education, we will stop and leave only those who are in the interests of the State itself. Because the involvement of someone else’s experience is also important for the development of science and scientific research in our country. As for the second question. So there's really a problem with the introduction of development into production. The problem is that on the one hand, all the administrative ones that were previously lost had important, let's say, for the introduction and non-cultivated, essentially effective economic preconditions for the implementation of scientific developments. What I'm saying is that we see this problem, there's an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences, with the Ministry of Industrial Policy to hold some joint meeting of the college in May, and there's a precedent to work out the maximum mechanism that you're talking about. As far as specific development is concerned, I am ready to consider and report to you separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u62	Valentin Matthews, Communist faction, Valentin Josephovich Matthews
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u63	Please pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u64	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Dear Vassil Grigorovich. To deal with the military conversion tasks, a Ukrainian science and technology centre was established in Ukraine on several Western states. The aim of this centre was to support our scientists in the areas of the military and industrial complex, which are in a state of conversion. Now, here's the question. During the time of this center, and it was also under your control that he was under your care, how many grants were received? And the second part of the question. And how much did Ukraine lose on account of the fact that it went back abroad — these inventions and these discoveries that were made by our native scientists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Indeed, such a center exists. And what I'd like to say is that over the years, through the center, it came to Ukrainian science: it was at the National Academy of Sciences, first of all, and in higher education, it was 100 million dollars in December. I think it's a pretty substantial aid to Ukrainian science, especially in terms of the most difficult, I think, the period of its existence in the first years of independence. As far as we're concerned, what discoveries have gone away from us. So what I'd like to say is that there's a clear way of shaping and passing grants. And when it comes to developments that should not go beyond the border, they were not supported. The other thing that the UNCC must be doing something different today: building on mutually beneficial foundations with foreign partners. And I would like to say that I've had negotiations with the ambassadors of those countries that started this center, and that's the agreement. We are now developing an opportunity to work on the mutually beneficial basis of the Ukrainian part and the foreign enterprise. And for that, too, this law that we are presenting today is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u66	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Have a seat, please. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also answer some questions, and I will complete the minister with regard to this law. The currentity of adopting this law -- I want to refer to the famous man Boris Eugenovich Patton's famous statement. From what Boris Evgenovich Patton said, in the original language: "Today a large number of foreign firms are engaged in targeted selection of our technologies. They often come at no cost because of the lack of experience in licensing and the lack of funds to conduct market studies on foreign patents. Unsolved issues: Who owns the right to intellectual property. This is compounded by the lack of proper regulation of the import of technologies, which has led to the linking of domestic enterprises to foreign equipment, technologies and raw materials to the detriment of available market-oriented ways of national development.” Of course, this must be said in 1996. Time has passed, and to answer the question, What have we lost? What happened in Soviet times of advanced technology is that we've wasted everything. With regard to this bill. The Committee on Science and Education considered, at its meeting, a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on State regulation of transfer technology activities and suggested that it be adopted as a basis. The draft law has been discussed in the National Security and Defence Committees without notice, in the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, with a proposal to adopt it as a basis, in the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Households and Investments, which recommends that the draft law be rejected. The findings of the Scientific and Expert Office as a result of the first reading of the draft law can be based on the proposals noted. And now, essentially. In fact, why do they need to adopt such a law? As a result of the lack of an active state system of regulation and transfer technologies, the country has already suffered significant losses. Consider for yourself that according to the competent authorities in 2001, scientific and developmental developments on payment documents amounting to $523 million were imported in 2001 and technical assistance was provided for the amount of $413. The same situation in 2002. In two years, the country counted $2 billion in US$ 83 million abroad, equivalent to nearly 20 percent of the government budget. Agree that such funding cannot be done, but this does not affect the development of new technologies in Ukraine. So it is doubtful that these are all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u68	The question is to Michael Kuzmich, respected colleagues? You don't? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Yes, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u69	Baranowski has one question. Thank you. Then sign up, dear fellows. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u70	Dear colleague! Please tell me there are two topics I'd like to know your opinion on. First. The bill regulates, let's say, official technology transfer problems. They're official. And there are two themes. One of them, you've heard that the problem so far is that our technologies are moving to the West. [[You were referring to Patton.]] They actually go there for cash, and there's millions and millions of dollars. Second question. There are many claims against Ukraine that we are smuggling technology and that we are starting to ask questions there. So please tell me how these two problems in this bill are regulated: export for nothing from us and, second option, import to us of what they will then claim, that it is illegal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u71	All the two provisions you have made are provided for in the draft law. But let's talk about the exit. It is not our citizens'fault that technology is being exported abroad. They're being exported because they're not needed in their own country to date, so that's the first and the main reason. Second moment. As far as we're concerned, we're not being approached, but we're still talking about technology, or they're coming. Money-laundering. This is precisely what the bill provides for measures to give shelter to this aspect, yet regulation must be what we buy. So far, we can't tell you where of those 2 billion bracelets, the 2 billion dollars we paid abroad, where those technologies are. That is the question that is being addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u72	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u73	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Mikhail Kuzmich, I have concluded from two reports that those grants that come from abroad for the development of our science are aimed at showing other talented scientists, as we say, "brains," talented scientists plus their respective development and then organizing them abroad. I realized that this is how grants are dispersed. That's the question I'm interested in. Tell me, please, how long does this law still protect you as the scientist himself from buying it, we're going to speak, unconscionable? And the question is, please tell me, how does a domestic manufacturer of this intellectual property protect themselves from being needed by someone, that they just made it, and they just don't fall under a dress, will they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u74	Okay. Well, speaking of the first question, on grants, you answered yourself, it was the planned policy of foreign companies to export intellectual potential and the work that was left over from Soviet times. At this point, you've probably noticed, I'll tell you as a scientist, these grants are getting smaller and smaller, not because they didn't have money, but because of what they can do, they've already taken away. That's the first one. On the second question. Our introduction technologies are here. Of course, legislation is necessary, it will play a role. But as long as the Ukrainian industry does not require intellectual property, it will be in the condition it is in. The need for production is a determining one, and production requires new technologies. No new production, no new technologies, it will be itself. And we are now in a situation where it is time to declare the slogan "Nation in Danger!"
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u75	Thank you, sit down, Mikhailo Rodionovich. I just want to add to that, my dear colleagues, that Germany has lost 2-3 percent of its scientists in the pre-war and war period, and so far it's feeling these losses. We both have losses in Russia, so in Russia, the exact figure is 54 percent, we have about as much. Here you can also compare the negative that they put into the future. Let's move on to the discussion. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u76	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The financial support of the state’s science has deteriorated with each year, leading to critical situations, since there is nowhere to be found in children, which has led to the outflow of young people, some valuable projects, or scientific institutions, to be closed down. So one of the main tasks of the government in the near future is to fully support the development of science and technology, to refocus it on the science and technology of economic growth, which is based on the accelerated movement in the innovation cycle of science and technology and consumption. Sadly, the government did not even consider it. Although I can deny it, because a science and technology development programme has been developed for the period up to 2006, an expertise of more than two thousand projects has been announced, scientific and scientific projects have been announced, and it is even planned to give 77 grants to the President of Ukraine for a total of 1 million dollars. But it's planned. What's in practice? A drop in the sea. That's what I know when I'm talking to scientists at Kirovograd Technical University. The material of the analysis of innovative enterprises indicates that today's situation in this area is not yet encouraging. For example, in 2003, only 568 enterprises or 6.3 percent of the total number of industrial innovations were active. By creating and implementing a technologically new or significantly improved product, 5.6 percent. New manufacturing processes developed and implemented only two percent. Sadly, innovation has not been a means of vitalizing the economy. An important problem is also the imbalance in technology transfer activities. The problem is that there is no constant systematization of information when new technologies are completed. But I agree that it is the adoption of this law that aims to improve innovation, which will have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u78	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! In Ukraine, it is believed that there has been a general objectively negative economic situation that does not allow for a higher share of GDP science in the absence of funding for the science and technology sector in Ukraine. But that's a totally wrong idea. In the past two years alone, Ukrainian operators have been listed as foreign currency in the Security Service, accounting for $2.83 billion, equivalent to $11 billion. And the analysis of the state of technology transfer in recent years shows the following trends: a steady annual decline in total exports of technological goods, which means a decrease in the level of export intelligence, an increase in total imports of technological goods. Dear friends, in all this guilt, our oligarchs are comfortable going abroad unprocessed products, and they're comfortable with a product from abroad that doesn't have intelligence. This is how Ukraine is tied to its place, and it is shown its place. But this is not the place of Ukraine. The site of Ukraine is an outstanding researcher, and John Pauley and others have invented both the computer and other inventions, the place of Ukraine, in the leading seven nations. I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading, and this will strengthen state control over activities related to the creation and use of intellectual property. But I would like to make a note and ask the government, ask the minister of education and science: What, does someone need a new office, what does someone need a new ministry? Read Article 3: "Subjects of transfer are the central body of executive authority on matters of science, science and technology, innovation and intellectual property. Now they've come up with a new ministry. And who will be appointed to him, Mr. Kremlin? I don't know, I'm definitely against creating a new ministry, a new structure. It has to be written here that there's the Ministry of Education and Science, and if they're already writing, they're going to give these functions to the Ministry. What are we doing? Once again, the vertical is proposed to be made. Next. The proposal for a bill to include a special state fund for 50 percent of certain taxes on compulsory payments from technology transfers does not meet the requirements of article 1 of the Tax Act. Let's make some changes, and then there will be, because only tax matters can make changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u79	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! It's very painful.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u81	I'm sorry, dear colleagues, are we going to take a break? We have a lot of drafts. Will you support me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u82	a miserable condition. That's where he's staying. We support, yes, in the first reading accept. National science is under way. And this started right from the time that the military-industrial complex was destroyed, because much of our advanced science, it worked for this particular military-industrial complex. You can argue about whether it was appropriate or not, but it was a fact. And when the army and the military and industrial complex were destroyed, the best scientific forces were abandoned on their own and they didn't know where, and how huge institutions and scientific centres would do their best. And so when the proposal of known states to form the Ukrainian Science Centre came out, our scientists were ready to sell everything, including themselves, for the pitiful grants offered to them. How did this happen? The proposals came to Minosveti and science, where they were referenced, and made lists, and prepared proper documents. These documents came to the Ukrainian Science and Technology Center. From this center they got to. And other world-renowned laboratories, in closed reports, and after there was a leading corporation that was interested in supporting those pitiful copies, that is, gaining direct access to these developments and technologies, there was a decision that made our science very excited. There has been a deliberate robbery of the scientific and technical potential of Ukraine. And now what's left may not be saved for anything. But we need to take into account where and how the rest of what is, we need to save. And first of all, this is to be saved in the field of scientific, technological and technological development, where the interaction of our science, such as "AN-70," space achievements, and, of course, where and where they are, these achievements, have been preserved. That's why I think a bill like this is necessary. The faction I represent.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Too bad we can't vote now. Dear colleagues, the draft law is now under review: "to amend article three of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions." [[on the list of objects]] But there are also alternative bills. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions to the Government, as well as to the national deputy Goodima, also drafts the Law on Amendments to Article 3 on Concessions. I think we can break this: on the one hand, when we only consider one bill, because the other didn't pass some committee. We're going to be charged with this because there's no committee opinion. On the other hand, we suggest that we consider three of them, and then by voting you determine which one we prefer. Is there no objection? None. Then I invite Philip Philipovich Budzigan to the report. Prepare Goodimi. And then from the committee. Right, I haven't seen it since August. And the one who came in January, you looked at, and he's insisting now. So let's all look at it together. Please, Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u84	Dear head, the request is that you now give the command to have these texts of the bill sent to the MPs on screen. The text of the bill is missing, both one and the other, and the third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u85	One's gone and two's gone. That's true. Look. On the screens, I ask for the numbers of these bills, and I ask the secretariat to distribute the necessary documents. Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u86	Honorable National MPs. Bill 4598 on amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions has caused considerable disruption, both in our deputy corps and in the executive branch. And there's a few "why." Why since 2001, the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline has not worked, and more than $500 million has been spent on it, and none of those who oppose the bill have done anything to make it pay. Why more than ten times at different levels the problem has been discussed, and so far it has not been solved. And finally. Why Ukraine found itself in such a situation that could be on the sidelines of the world’s oil transport systems. I don't know what political forces advocate whose economic interests, I mean which countries, which financial and industrial groups, but I can see how populists deceive our citizens. And that's why I stand in the position of strengthening the economy of Ukraine and convinced, the 4598 bill, which has been discussed in our committee, should be accepted as a whole. This will give specific revenue to the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u87	Is there a question? Please. I'm sorry. It's a simplified procedure. Have a seat. First. Dear colleagues! You can even shout louder, it won't change anything, because there's a order that's approved and set up, not today's first and not today's last. Please, Goodima, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u88	Goodima, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! If that were possible, I would ask for another four minutes, which my fellow national deputy Budzighan had not used, but I will try to pay in five minutes. All right. What are we looking at today? Today we are considering the proposal of the people's deputies Budzigan and Bogotyrov to adopt a law allowing the government to transfer to the concession the strategic importance of Odessa-Boda and the oil terminal. So if tomorrow, God forbid, we vote in favour of this bill, the government will hand it over to the Supreme Council on unknown terms for how many years, for how many years, this strategic object. I wonder how for the opposition, who does the Communist Budjigan want to hand over the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline to the concession? And I'm going to read the continuances of the bill of head of the Communist Party Simonenka and Guerrenk, the law of Ukraine, which I support. Opposition is not always the case. Communists, Communists do a lot of things normal. And I'm the one who supports the Simonnka and Gurenk bill, which is called "Introduce a moratorium on sales, privatization, corporateization, lease or concession, and other changes in the form of ownership of state oil and gas transport systems." I support this bill because without the Supreme Council, without the will of the legislators, it is impossible to allow government strategic oil pipelines. So as far as I'm concerned, I'd be looking at those bills in the package, including the Gurenk and Simonck Bill. I don't believe the people's deputy Budzigan would agree to award a concession to the U.S. oil company Odessa Broda. It's just impossible for me. But even for the Americans, some might think that I'm going to agitate you with two hands to give that oil pipe to the Americans. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't need a cat in a bag, we don't need a belief that the government is likely to use a concession for good purposes and for good convenience. Today, ladies and gentlemen, at 3 p.m., the Committee on Fuel and Energy will meet. He was at the last meeting discussing these issues, strategic for the state, transfer to concession, use and decision-making -- today at three o'clock, the government is going to present to us, and tomorrow we have economic justifications for possible transfer to the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline concession. If this economy is given to us we'll see it, I think. That the national MPs would refer to this bill quite differently. But the national committee members offered another vision to the government. They offered the next step. If this is necessary for the national, for energy security to be passed on to the concession, why can't this be passed on to a separate law, which is called "On the peculiarities of the transfer to a strategic concession for the energy security of the oil pipeline of the State of Odessa Broda and the oil terminal"? And the absolute majority of MPs told the government -- pass this bill, show us how many Ukrainian states will get millions of dollars in revenue? How will its energy security be ensured? And 226 votes are in favour of the bill. But I was talking about a bill that was presented by my colleague Boudhugan. I'll say two words about my bill. He showed up in July of last year. I didn't have enough against oil pipelines being passed on to concessions, and I'm proposing in my draft law that gas pipelines be removed, because today the gas transport system is also under question. And Vice Prime Minister Kristenko has already announced to us another initiative that Russia wants to take the gas transport system into concession so that the Ukrainian government can transfer the gas transport system to whom would you think for 30 years? The International Gas Consortium.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u90	It's random.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u91	Finish it, please. Red. to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u92	So, being consistent, respectful, remembering that Mr. Chubays wants to privatize our energy and wants to accept the power lines in concession to transport them to Russian electricity. In my bill, I propose to remove from the list of objects that may be included in the concession, as well as the lines of electricity. That is, if the government wants to transfer any strategic object to a concession, it has the right to do so only with the consent of the Supreme Council. Only through the adoption of a special law can we give the government such a right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, once again, we now have a system installed that shuts off the microphone after the deadline is over. Please, I won't make any exceptions. So don’t rape, don’t scream, in five minutes you had to say what you wanted to say in the end. And that would be the idea. There are no questions today. Please, from the government of Vice Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Klovev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u94	Good afternoon, fellow officers, distinguished deputies! I'd like, thank you, I'd like us to take this very carefully. This is a very important issue for our state, for the government, for our people, for our energy security. You know, there were and there are enough questions at this point where we can design and work the Odessa-Boda pipeline, you know that on February 4, this question was solved, and I want us to develop a map there, too. Thank you. And you can see that the government decided on February 4 that oil transport would be from Odessa to Brody. Next. The government decided that the oil pipeline from Ship to Plocka should be added. Next. At this time, where. I'm reporting by law. I would like to have an understanding in the Supreme Council on this matter. As far as possible, on the development of the Act on the Speciality of Surrender in the Concession of the Odessa-Broda Oil Pipe and the South Terminal. First. The provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions allow to take into account virtually all the characteristics of the objects through the conclusion of the concession contract, as set out in articles 9 and 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Concessions. The other one. The specificities and size of the rents are defined by a special method that is designed to take into account the specificities of each object of the concession. This is article 9, paragraph 4, of the same law. Third. The drafting of the law on specialities makes no sense when there is no principle at the legislative level to provide suitable facilities for concessions. Four. For similar reasons, the development of any technical and economic base and negotiation with potential concessionaires would be a waste of financial and human resources, which would be like negotiating with suppliers of oil rushes for the operation of the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline, when the direction of oil transport was not even determined. This will lead to the loss of competitive time advantages of the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline, which is less and less likely to be implemented. I am. Well, it's like, "We've got you." I don't share the people with you, we have one Ukrainian people, and let's not share with you. I would like to point out one thing to you that, if we do not hand over and execute the concession contract and hand over the concession, we will have a very long prospect for all of us together. That means we're gonna start this pipeline. What type of work is proposed by the Government? First, and with many factions, with factions, we have discussed this issue, the first is that it is created after a concession law has been voted with the members of the Supreme Council, the concession permit has been passed on to Odessa Broda, so an international consortium will be established. An international oil consortium and an international oil-consumer consortium that will be transported under Odessa-Broda under normal transparent procedure. Then, as this international consortium and a number of companies will be established, a number of States, including the President of Azerbaijan. The Prime Minister of Azerbaijan has arrived in Kiev and is currently negotiating with the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the operation and concession of Odessa Broda. The Kazakh side expressed its wish, the Russian side had expressed its desire to participate in the concession contract. She spoke to Chevron. That is, we will create an international consortium to transfer the oil pipeline Odessa Broda and the South Terminal to the consortium. So it's just normal practice, and if you look at the map now, and you see the pointier, let's say, "Baku-Tbilisy-Jahan" is a building pipeline. Next. The pipeline that goes through is designed through Bulgaria, a pipeline that is designed through Romania, all of which are built on concessional grounds. I'm done. All of this goes on a concessional basis. Therefore, public companies have already become accustomed to this practice of oil pipelines. The Government is therefore invited to take such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u95	Thank you. What questions? What questions? Yes, please, from the committee of Matthew Valentin Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u96	Respectable colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich. The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment has considered three bills, which are currently under discussion, only one bill, number 4598. [[the authors of Budzigan and Bogotyrev]] According to the bill, there is only one comment by the Scientific and Expert Administration that there are several distortions in the scope of this law. It is said that if the Act on concessions refers to a list of facilities, i.e. a list of industries in general, it is proposed that the right to operate this pipeline be transferred to the concession. Based on the fact that the Odessa-Broda pipeline is only 52 kilometres away today, the rest is rusting, and there is no profit to the State. In view of the fact that no one can draw the prospects today: and how this will be used, the Committee proposes the adoption of this amendment to the Concession Act, which enables the Government to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the transfer to the concession of this particular object. And then the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u97	I'm making a remark to the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u98	Adam Ivanovic, I would like to invite the Ukrainian people's deputies to some culture to communicate with each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u99	Vladimir Josephovich, please, I am in charge of the session for the time being. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! You understand and realize that this bill is of interest to many national MPs. And those who scream the most right now in the hall are giving themselves up "with ears." I'm making a public observation to National Deputy Rudzkowski for preventing him from holding a session. This is the right of the Leader to follow the Rules. Please, Vladimir Josephovich, continue. I'll give you a minute. Under the Concession Act, the right to transfer to the concession of this pipeline will be exercised on a competitive basis. No one will be prevented from participating in this constitutional competition. Following the constitutional contest, a consensus agreement is made on the basis of a law to be adopted by the Supreme Council. Nothing about property change is happening because this pipeline will still remain State property. What they already say is that the State will not be able to influence after that, just as the concession law provides for all questions of the State's influence on the concession and use of such facilities. The Committee proposes the adoption on first reading of Bill No. 4598,
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, please sit down. From the procedure, after we've finished the question. Please, two for, two for against. Carmagine, prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday I warned you what might happen when people are sitting there, figuring out what kind of project to look at in a reduced procedure, and what kind of project to look at in full. And today you hear a variety of artistic whistles that will then come together. Where does it come out of the law? The law clearly states: to amend part three of the Act on Concessions: "and transport, and transfer of oil through the Odessa-Boda pipeline through the South Sea Oil Terminal." I'm telling you, I'm defending the interests of the city hero Odessa. In this case, neither the Americans nor the Communists will be able to afford the national interest of $500 million. If you want to do what Chubaisu, the power lines, the Christenka pipelines, our oligarchs, they've all gotten the power distribution companies, they've divided everything. Then what will remain of the State? Dear friends! Only the law on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession, on the specifics, can be considered, since it is an object of strategic importance, since it is a matter of national security. I gladly listened to Andrew Petrovich Clovis. Andrew Petrovich, but you probably didn't read what's written here about the projections of the socio-economic and other consequences of the adoption of the act. And there's nothing written here. I quote in the language of the project: "Introducing the main pipeline into the list of objects that can be used in the concession will facilitate Ukraine's participation in international cooperation from the construction of international oil transport, the integration of Ukraine into European society. And that's all the calculations? I understand you're not the author, this is not a question for you, I'm just telling you that the authors should have made the calculations. And that's what we need to do in a clear and transparent way. And what I have now heard from Mr. Matthew’s Committee, where is this provided for in the law? So let's take a set of laws. Let's take this seriously. I don't mind being compensated if they come in, part of the money that the state has once invested and then paid that kind of money, show us, if necessary, let's hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council, because this is a matter of national security, it's a very serious question, but I can't understand why the project of the same Goodima from July of last year wasn't brought up for consideration. Why is this project introduced in January, in late January, and then in the second February, it is already being considered, there are conclusions, all because there is someone on his back to pull it? I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you again, Stepan Ilkovich, a moment. I would like to remind you once again, my fellow Members, that we are with you today as we have agreed, as Vladimir Mikhajlovich announced, opening the debate on this issue, we are considering a bill, including the Goodimas. And Goodima reported today. Well, that's what the commission head said, it's good that the commission, the committee head, said or the committee head. But it's not the committee's decision, it's the Supreme Council's decision. So we're talking about 4598 and 4043 and 4043-1. Please, Stepan Ilkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u103	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Honorable National MPs. A strategic issue is being considered, which is of paramount importance to national security and how they want to extend it through the Supreme Council. Short-circuited! It's a crime! Who's doing this? This is a crime against the State and against the Ukrainian people! And now the essence of the law itself. Dear Andrew Petrovich, you called the pipelines that are built by Baku-Jahan and others that are on concessional basis. Then I'd like to deny it. Andrew Petrovich, I'd like to. I want you to listen. I respect you, and I always listen carefully. You called certain oil pipelines that are built on concessional basis. So I deny you this. These pipelines are built by various companies. Our oil pipeline was built by Ukraine and the money went state. Not a penny of private equity is invested there, not a penny of external investment! We could build, our money we found, and now to use it, we must give it to someone! Because, you see, we don't have managers to manage? Yes. And I want to tell you that the pipeline didn't work, not because it couldn't work, but because year, year! The government could not determine what to do - whether to use it directly in transporting Caspian oil or vice versa. Oil users and extractors, oil owners are interested in one thing: How do you get it to the consumer faster? How can it be implemented? And the consumer, how do you buy the most? So the Odessa-Brody pipeline, taking into account its specifics, is the shortest. And if the government were to focus its attention and strategically set the price for transportation accordingly lower, I think it would speed up the operation of this pipeline by destination. In addition, you understand that if the government declares in advance what we will put into concession, those who want to eat at the expense of Ukraine will always be found. You know, there's a kind of impression that you should.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u104	Thank you, Stepan Ilkovich. Dear colleagues, so two "against" stood up. Solomonine, are you in favour or against? Yuri Petrovich, please wait. Dear colleagues, in order to avoid being accused of wanting anything else, I would like to put to the vote who's to discuss the matter in full procedure, please decide. [[12:32:44]] For 134 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Please, Yuri Petrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're on time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, there was a slight disturbance at the rostrum, I ask 30 seconds to give me time for my performance. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The Odessa-Brody oil station is our favorite national democrat doll of our bourgeois opposition. But they don't know what to do with this doll. Because Ukraine has only 15 percent of its own oil and gas supply in its lineage. Moreover, Ukraine is a great transit state, and we should consider our relationship with those nations that are large because they have this oil and this gas. This is, first of all, Russia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, as well as those who consume -- Europe, first of all. We have our own national interests to match with the interests of countries that have oil and gas and use Ukraine's space, its oil only as transit and those that are European countries, especially those that are consumers of oil and gas. And here's the key issue in discussing this bill. I mean, these moans that we've been feeling for a long time now, which is our pipe, it's dying, it's rusting, they're not going to lead to anything that it can finally cover the rust for the next one or two years. And all those hundreds of billions, hundreds of millions of dollars that have been invested in building this petroleum, they're not going to bring, they're going to be buried. In our country in its territory. So that's the question. Is it inappropriate to give the Cabinet of Ministers the right to draft a bill on surrender in the concession of this oil and to determine all the conditions that are involved in this conversation? And together and after that, as the committee representative put it, it was once again on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I think this bill meets the right conditions, and it can be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u106	Yes, Stetsky's against it. Yes. Against? For what? Rudzkowski wants to say. Please, Stack, Rudzkowski, I'll give it to you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you an argument. From an economic point of view, the bill proposed is completely absurd. What is being done? An object, a high - technology object that has been built entirely at the expense of government funds, which the State has spent $220 million and which can bring to the State the costs of transporting oil to the State budget, is essentially offered to be transferred into private hands, since the concession under a law adopted by the Supreme Council is provided from 10 to 50 years old, and this is a hidden form of privatization. So you have to clearly and clearly understand what this is. The economic justification is missing, the vice-premier didn't call it, because it's just gone. There were arguments. Please tell me, last year, 52 million tons on the existing system of oil pipelines without any concession. What prevents the same Crustransnafty from making contracts, or with Russian suppliers, or with Caspian and direct oil contracts? But it doesn't bother anything. But in fact, it's obvious that a group of comrades who, in one part of this room, say they're going to hand over to the Americans in the concession, and the other part of this room says they're going to hand over the concession to the Russians, they're actually going to want to take everything away and pay the state a little concession fee. Gross revenue from one year of operation of the Odessa-Broda is at least $60 million, it could all go to the state Treasury, which could be the payout of pensions and salaries. And that's how it's going to be called Horn and Chopper, which is going to be established in some part of Kiev, and which, in a centralized account, is just going to be collecting money from transporting this oil. Can you give me one example in the world where the pipeline seemed to be a concession? Just one! In the 21st century, a huge state of "Ukraine" gives concessions to someone because it's written down what it can't do. I'll tell you this: in the 1930s, Stalin in the Soviet Union expelled English concessionaires from Siberia because they were robbing Russia. Well, is Ukraine in the 21st century so unhappy and so unhappy that it's got to give someone their concession? To date, I am convinced that nothing prevents me from transporting Caspian or other oil on direct contracts. And all the costs of transporting this oil have to fall into the State budget, not into private hands. This law must therefore be rejected and supported by the law that reported to Goodim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I promised you from the procedure per minute. Please, Rudzkowski. Not from the rostrum, please. Then there's the microphone, one minute. Take your seat, get your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we are looking at at at least three bills today, so at least three times there should be more speakers for the reduced procedure. But what I want to say is that, first of all, both the authors and the government should convince, in fact, the economic calculations that the concession is better than the exploitation of the pipeline. As I say, government, because we know that the government has a mandate to follow this law. Of course, the construction of this pipeline has been linked to political processes for many years. Let's think about how for 10 or 12 years the so-called greens, in fact, the fake greens, took care of the construction of this pipeline. After that, they built it for an artificially long time. In the days of Yushchenka, this pipeline was finally built. In the last year we've been talking about some kind of reverse. And in the end, if it's a better concession, the government has to convince it by economic calculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Gunner. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u111	Adam Ivanovich, first of all, I want to say that you are the first to break the Rules and deceive MPs and radio listeners. There are no three daily bills, either in writing or in an electronic database. Secondly, you have given the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Clovis in violation of the Rules, which was not provided for by day. And that's why I'm also making a note of it. And thirdly, I think that as of today, the Communist Party of Ukraine can be referred to as the old KPBU, the Communist Party of the bourgeoisie of Ukraine. And I don't care about my countryman, Budjigan, that he represents this project. This is a betrayal of Ukraine’s interests, and this bill has to be rejected as a basis for the Goodima bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u112	I thank you for your observation, but once again I would like to stress, Gunny, please listen. Opening a discussion of this issue, at the request of your colleague of the people's representative, Gudimi, according to the rules of the Rules, the Chairman put into law a bill that is currently in the order of the day 4,598 alternative bills, as Gudima insisted. And in opening this session, the consideration of the issue was announced that there would be alternatives, including another Cabinet of Ministers bill, and we are now considering three bills. Everyone has reported on their bill, including the vice-premier. Therefore, your comments are unfounded. And whoever protects Ukraine, we shall see. Please, Rabbit One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? It's about putting the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline into the concession. The market value of this pipeline is at least a billion dollars. We have to talk about concession fees -- that's about the tenth part. So every year someone who takes a concession has to pay and would have to be 100 million. That's what I'm talking about. But we know it won't happen. So, dear communists, I'm addressing you. If you vote for this bill, you'll actually put it into private hands without pay in the State Budget properly. So let the government give us a bill on the features of the concession of this object where it will write conditions, tell us that it will cost so much for so many years. Who's gonna keep him behind him, and so on. And that way we can vote for the bill. And now it's just a decision to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Rudzkowski, come on out of the rostrum. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u115	Dear Chairman! First. Such issues cannot be dealt with by a reduced procedure, for they have a national significance and a strategic one for the State as a whole. That's the first one. And we don't know who dragged him through a reduced procedure. The second question. I'm talking to Andrew Petrovich. Andrew Petrovich, you and I have considered when you were only chairman of the committee, and you remember, we discussed the issue of concession, I was not against it, but on the condition that we find in the law that the direction of Odessa's oil to the Brodys. And secondly, what we're going to say is that then once again, the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council will approve the terms of the concession. Unfortunately, this is not in this law. And that's why I'm proposing that you listen to the second reading. And the third question. Dear communists, you've privatized the Mariupal Metalworks. Do not sell the gas transport system and the oil transport system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u116	Cibenka, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. There were rumors from "Our Ukraine" and the socialists, and they were very concerned about the position of the Ukrainian Company. I want to reassure you, my fellow Communist faction, that the Communist faction will vote in the right way as it belongs to the people of Ukraine, as it will benefit the people of Ukraine. And as for your position, I'd like to say this. Today, representatives of both factions come out and cry crocodile tears from the Supreme Council’s rostrum for pension reform. At the same time, "Our Ukraine" 97 out of 102 voted in favour of this law, the faction of socialists -- 20 out of 20. So these are themselves consistent in solving the issues that exist today. And we will vote as it is and as it is for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u118	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a few questions. Please calm down. Well, I didn't hear who was who. ‘ so I'm free of everyone's responsibilities, please. Yes! Just a minute. Thirty seconds of replica. Matvienkov, Baranowski, Assadchev of all. All of it! Well, everyone can't, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen of society! I would like to tell you that, for the privatization of the Metallurgical Combined Ilic, the State has received 480 million dollars of live money. Over the past year, one billion dollars in taxes. It is an enterprise that operates transparently and has increased the number of jobs during this period by 20,000. And the fact that you couldn't put sticks in your wheels at the time when you privatized it with the labour force and you regret it today. There's nothing to pull this thing in your teeth right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u120	Yes. Baranowski, then Valerius Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u121	I want to. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I want to tell my fellow Communists that the faction of socialists in favour of pension reform did not vote for the government to reduce the base on pension. And you know that. And if the government were to take this base into account, today's pension was 60 bucks higher, but you're silent about it today. Let us be honest and decent in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u122	Valerius Assadchev. Dear colleagues, let's work properly. It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I won't call anyone a faction. I just want to look to you, let's look to the future: we can't include such issues in a reduced procedure. It's a strategic question, it's very important to the Ukrainian state, you have to make serious calculations for it, and so seriously, really, as it's put out, it's kind of turned on the passions here, because no one knows if it's convenient, if it's inconvenient. So just for the future, such strategic issues need to be made in full procedure. And then I think we're taking a lot of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of Bills No. 4598, 3043, 3043-1. Decisions will be made in the light of the discussion and your position. Dear colleagues, now we have to look at the whole package. What? Budgygan, microphone, please, but we're done with the bill. The last name was Budjigan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to remind you of one thing I'm going to start with. A bill of 4598 amending the article of the third law caused considerable disruption in both our MP and the executive branch. I like not knowing the discussion without foreseeing it, but to make an objective assessment of the situation under this bill. That's one thing. I thank you all very much for reminding me of my family. That's two. And the third. Trust me, God forbid this discussion goes to Ukraine and, in fact, the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, we now have to consider a whole package of bills that apply to traffic rules. These are bills 4281, 4280-1, 4507, 4507-1, 4446, 2623, 2623-1, 2623-2, 2623-3 and 3497. That's why there's this proposal: if the drafters were to report every bill, and then we had the discussion all together. Is there no objection? Let's talk about it then, let's talk about it all. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on road safety is being announced for consideration. The rapporteurs are the first Deputy Minister Kornienko Mikhailovich and the Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities Mazurenko. The focal point will be the head of the committee’s subcommittee on legislative and law enforcement matters. I'm going to ask you very briefly for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u127	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, a situation of serious concern is the increase in road accidents in the country. Last year more than 42,000 road accidents were registered, 23 percent more than last year. At the same time, the number of deaths increased by 20 percent. A total of 7,200 died, and nearly 50,000 were injured by 25 percent. I want to point out that human losses on our highways per year account for nearly half of those killed in the ten - year Afghan war. This terrible statistics should be a cause for concern to the legislators. One reason for this is the imperfection of current legislation in the administrative responsibility of drivers and pedestrians for violating traffic rules. The fine sanctions for their misdemeanors. The weight of this type of attraction as an important measure of administrative legal influence is almost undervalued. The massive warnings of traffic violators brought before the courts create an atmosphere of impunity and contempt for laws. The analysis shows that every fourth traffic violation protocol to be considered by the courts is without a proper response because of the offender’s lack of response to his case or because of his failure to pay the amount he has set. A large number of offenders are not held accountable because they do not have a permanent residence or are foreigners. If the situation on State highways is not affected by legislation now, it will worsen. Statistics testify to this. In January of this year, the number of car accidents increased by almost 45 percent compared to the same period last year. The proposed project aims to fully implement the State's mechanism of influence on road traffic violators who are responsible for road accidents and deaths. Please note that not only does the IMF need this law, but above all, every citizen who is involved in the road traffic at one time or another. What is proposed? First. Take responsibility for the illegal installation and use of special audio or light signal devices on transport devices. The other one. The responsibility of drivers and officials is increased for certain types of traffic safety offences that lead to road accidents with severe consequences. It is the failure of road traffic regulations, the violation of human traffic rules, the neglect of road signs, the failure to comply with stop and parking rules, the violation of walking rules, and railway movements. Third. Alternative cases of administrative offences, authorized officials of internal affairs or courts, are envisaged to increase the liability of offenders and reduce the loading of courts and increase the effectiveness of the executive service. I emphasize that a fine based on an approved decision will be paid by a responsible official of the police or by a court through bank institutions and will be included in the general fund of the state budget of Ukraine. Four. The bill proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine define arrangements for the organization of training, retraining and upgrading of drivers of all categories. This will help to improve their preparation and thus improve the safety of road traffic. The problem with the bill is that many national MPs are concerned and it is clear that eight other parliamentary bills in this area have been scheduled for the current week. As a result, I would like to ask the Ukrainian President to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law as a basis for further work on it, taking into account other bills and proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'm back. Sit down, Mikhail Vasilovich, dear colleagues, well, don't be in vain about whether you ask a question or not, nothing will change, because today we don't determine the fate of this bill. Let's vote, then let's figure it out. That's the first one. Second, we're having a discussion. We're having a brief discussion. Let's see that this procedure, as a shortcut, we're going to eliminate you, then we're going to do something different. Please report to the Committee's Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Mazurenko Vladimir Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Wait a minute! I want to report Bill 4281-1. I want to make it clear that these are two different bills, the one reported by Mr. Kornierko and the one that I'm going to report. The draft law is designed to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements for road safety and to reduce the negative trends in road traffic injury due to infringements by drivers. The draft law establishes provisions whereby a driver may be deprived of his right to drive only on the basis of a court decision, part 13 of article 15 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. On April 5, 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a law to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Road Traffic Regulations, which prohibits the removal of a driver’s licence by State inspectors. Furthermore, on the basis of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, courts grant the right to impose penalties in the event of a traffic violation. Following the amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences, it was necessary to amend other legal acts relating to the Code, particularly the Code of Road Traffic Act of Ukraine, which was directly used by the DAI and the driver. At the time, no changes were made, and the road traffic law left a rule allowing the driver’s license to be removed. The bill is a response to numerous complaints, appeals from citizens, representatives of the public, industry, transport companies, and information published in the media when drivers are removed from the vehicle's right to pay a fine, despite changes to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which prohibit the removal of certificates The issued certificates after receiving them in the State Inspectorate are the property of citizens, their removal is contrary to the requirements of article 41 of the Constitution, which clearly states that no one can be deprived of his or her property and that everyone has the right to own, use and manage his or her property. Therefore, the removal of a driver’s license to pay a fine is a violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. This is the basic article that I am introducing to this bill. In addition, there is an increase in administrative responsibility for driving in a drunken state, the transfer of control to a person in a drunken state, as well as the avoidance of those who manage transport equipment from passing through to the established drinking system and again during the year of one of these violations. That's all the changes to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'll just make it clear that it was a legislative initiative. The office is not a secretary, but a national deputy has reported here because the committee is reporting to the head of the subcommittee Neciporuk Vladimir Pavlovich. Please, Vladimir Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, your distinguished colleagues, for your word. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194th constituency, Hmelničchina. The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on road safety, as submitted by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4281]] The bill proposes to amend a number of articles of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations and the Ukrainian Law on Road Traffic in order to increase the liability of drivers for offences in the field of road safety, which result in loss and injury, the introduction of rules that will allow alternative administrative proceedings by officials of internal affairs bodies, or by judges. And to increase the requirements for training and retraining institutions, to increase the qualifications of drivers. The committee generally supported the bill and considered it possible to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, according to some committee members, there is a warning that a driver’s license should only be issued for a certain period. I want to tell everyone that for a period of time, it's not a driver's license, it's a medical certificate, it's a medical certificate that refers to categories A, B, C, for five years, and then it's a medical examination. And the drivers of buses and large vehicles are up to three years old and that's the right thing to do, and it's legal not to have what happened to us in Crimea, which the driver is guilty of, and then they ran and made a noise about it. Therefore, according to the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bill can be based on the first reading. In addition to the draft Supreme Council ruling on this issue and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee is submitting the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council and requesting the Supreme Council to support the bill under number 4281. This is a normal, good bill that will save thousands of lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Yeah, let's move on to two for, two for against. Karmazin, please prepare Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u133	Yury Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very simple for me to say that I didn't get the Supreme Council numbers, along with National Deputy Cloud. As soon as mass removals of rights and abuse of people on the road began, we asked the Attorney General and received an answer to the request, first Mrs. Kolyko, God give her health, then Hennady Vasiliev. They protested and overturned this nonsense. But the questions remained. I'm deeply concerned about the reports that went through, unfortunately, with the initiative of the Head of State on TV that something happened because of the MPs. I've analyzed it. None of the cases reported, including the minister, today have given everyone the number of accidents, and so on, there is no fault of the MPs. That's the first one. Take courage, then, and report it to the media. Now let's move on. We didn't propose, it's not written anywhere in the law to be AP. The President's administration, the clerics have made numbers for themselves at the level of the branch of power. And I don't have to, and the AP doesn't need to, and the KM doesn't need to, but I did speak from this rostrum. In Odessa OCC - Odessa Executive Committee, ODR - Odessa City Council, OOR - Odessa District Council, ODA - Odessa State Administration. All this at the expense of the budget. No one stopped it. The cars are driving in the center of Kiev today. Now, about this bill. Dear National Deputies! I like it, it's an impressive proposal from Deputy Mazurenko. It's weighed, it's normal, it's right that no one should just take documents and rights. Now, with regard to increasing administrative responsibility for failure by drivers to meet the demands of a police officer. Let's see if these requirements are always legal. They stop a person who has to go to work for 15 minutes to study documents. Where is this possible? Of course, all of this has to be normalized. Therefore, I will be firm against the proposed approach by which a person whose health is deteriorating is deprived of the right to drive a vehicle on the basis of a court decision. Get well, go to court again. People are good, what are you doing? If you're setting up the President and you're writing a part of two articles 122-2 to make, the same rule was repealed back in 93. Where are you making changes? It's been canceled. All right, open your eyes there. Who prepares these bills? So, dear friends, I'm going to vote for the bill in this case, and I'm going to support the bill of the national MP Kravchenk who needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Yes, please, Yavorowski. Isn't that right, Yuri Anatolyovich, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one for, one Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u135	I haven't told you yet. Dear colleagues, our constituents! Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski Jovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". Saltykov-Schedrin has a very nice phrase, and it says, "The worst system is a system where nothing is explicitly forbidden and nothing is directly allowed." Something similar is happening in this situation, and in these rules we are. It would seem, well, why would Ukrainians here, in the center of Europe, invent a bicycle? Once upon a time there were rules of movement in the same Germany, the pedantic Germans adjusted everything. Remember this episode when Cole drove. He had an informal ride, and he was just driving to his cabin, and his driver exceeded his speed. When he was fined just like any German. Everything's written down, everything's set, everything's in place. Then perhaps it would be worth it if our famous auto inspectors and the militia generals didn't change the rules every day. I'm a driver, I don't know if they're taking the rights or not taking the rights. One week they won't take it, the next week they'll take it. I don't understand. You can put the car in the wrong parking lot. Before, the numbers were detached, and one day I was disconnected. I spent a week looking for these numbers while I was busy. It's like they're not taking off the numbers right now. Now they're taking them off again, the same numbers. So maybe I'm saying take a copy of whether the Germans or the Austrians, translate it into Ukrainian, vote, and we all follow these road rules. All of this could be done, of course, and done very quickly and quickly. But does this change the situation on Ukraine’s roads today? - It doesn't change, because when the head of state suddenly resents that they've multiplied the numbers and the Supreme Council, and both of them, and says that he's going to cancel it, well, he's found a state problem for the president. You do the economy, you do it, there's the police. Who allowed these numbers to be distributed, distributed all over Ukraine? And I'll tell you, dear fellows, if you've got these VR numbers, it's nothing to protect you from. It's very important to have O.O. numbers right now. I saw the auto inspectors run when they go, they go with these numbers. That's what country we have. The fact that we are separated by a religious principle, by political, by geographical, we are still divided by the numbers that we have and by the road rules. Because of this, it is obvious that we need to think about something else today. When the President leaves or the Prime Minister leaves for 2-3 hours, the movement is blocked. So they can hear at this moment what the drivers are thinking. Who are gassing, those rural uncles who still have to go to Poltavščina, and they've covered the entire coast, because they have to go not even Yanukovitch, but Medvedchuk. They're covering the whole road when he's leaving the cabin. So I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u136	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, you're a little behind the "O." It's "II" and "NN." Yes, please, School. I can't see. Cowchenko. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u137	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. Dear colleagues, the history of this issue, in general, of road safety legislation. In 2001, you and I decided clearly on the main issue: an arbitrator was tried between the driver and the GAI. Since then, the opposition of the Supreme Council and the Ministry of the Interior has begun. Attempts were all kinds of things. And just now, I'm going to list some of them that did everything by the Ministry in order to destroy the legislative field that we've worked with you. In October, an order was issued that was legally unfounded, which was taken from drivers by force. And it's only now that the D.A.'s orders have been suspended. And my bill, which I have been seeking for three months to be considered, is this. Attractor, the Deputy Minister, a new one who has appeared, has decided to prove who is the master here, has issued a cipherogram, returns a telegram giving the staff direct instructions to search for the vehicles of the people's deputies, to act on them, and today the question is that the national MP is also a person and can be detained as a pedestrian. To let you know that this is already dangerous in terms of the political situation we are in, it is already dangerous. Next question. Apoguem was a visit by the President. The point of the visit is one. It's a replacement, another replacement. That's three billion financial resources. This will force the entire population to be raped and forced to pay for the numbers again. And the fourth. It is now being prepared underground, and a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers is being prepared to force the transport of vehicles for allegedly incorrect parking. There is total disregard for laws. That is why I am now discussing Bill 4281, and I am clearly speaking. Dear colleagues, we must protect the ten million citizens who are behind the wheel. They are initially placed within the framework of criminals by the Ministry of the Interior today. We must vote in favour of my bill 4507 tomorrow in order to abolish this vacchanalia, I will report this law, but I am clearly saying that we have adopted and passed, six people's deputies, the bill 4552 is the Road Traffic Code. And I ask all the people's deputies who have tabled these bills today, which I am asking them to remove, and we will consider them as a whole in the Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u138	Mikola Vasilovich, so you propose to take your project off. Okay, thanks. Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Boris Bespali. Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the relevance of the problem is obvious to everyone before the DAI's inference on the road was added to the divide, forgive the unwitting road users. Plus, it's not stable legislation, which is what Yavorovsky was talking about, plus conflicting legislation. So the problem is very urgent. Now in specific positions of Law 4281. The first position, as reported by Mr. Kornienko, is to order the lighting devices. And who offered it? I proposed to the president. But the first violators on Ukraine's roads are the Administration and its subjects. There's roadblocks in Crimea, because maybe one day he'll drive around here, see something that works with the President in that head, you have to start. So you also understand, I don't know, not the Queen of England anyway. The other one. Increasing responsibility, however, is solved by not increasing responsibility, but by its obligation not to reverse punishment and to increase responsibility in this respect, as this does not at first seem to lead to a mere increase in bribery. Let's put 10 years in prison all of them will be redeemed, let's shoot them, let's figure out what these violations are. And here we go to the next proposal. Again, why do we keep inventing our Ukrainian bicycle, where there is order in the world? How did it go before? Money was taken directly by a militiaman. It's an outrage, it shouldn't be, it's wrong. How is it now? All cases are petty about the wrong parking to be dealt with by the court. There is no such thing anywhere in the world. There's a common, normal, well-known practice around the world: the receipt is written by the inspector for minor violations, the non-consentee is sued in court, and the payment goes to sbercass. So it's not taking money, it's writing a receipt. Well, that's a completely famous thing. In this part, I think projects need to be supported. Finally, I am very concerned about the task of retraining or driving. A very subtle action is currently planned, I think, and the public opinion is being prepared for it, the exchange of license plates. Well, of course, someone's just trying to make money. Let's also, it would be interesting to ask this question, I would like to make a parliamentary statement, give lists of those factories and who they belong to, who has the right to print them. And now there's going to be an exchange of certificates. It's just going to be harassment, and they're going to suggest everyone change their driver's license. And last of all, after the licenses were removed. Now my assistants were late, for example, for what hour there was a protocol. I think that before the court, no one has the right to touch and collect a certificate before the court's decision. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u140	Yes, Your Honor, the consideration of question 4281, 4281-1 completed, we'll be determined more quickly just tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u141	Adam Ivanovich, can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u142	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Regarding the charges against the Ministry of Justice, even Mikola Vasilovich stated that criminals in the Ministry of Internal Affairs could not agree, to put it mildly. The first thing about changing numbers is that everyone is in equal terms. Second, no one's thinking of taking the numbers. Read "Comsomol Truth" today, there's our head of the Scientific Research Institute of Road Traffic, he answers all the questions. No number of those who have published, including the national MPs, will be taken away. And no one will replace the numbers that already exist. So the point is that we're setting samples of numbers to European standards. They will appear only to those who register the new car or who reregister it. And everything else is just the desire of someone who wants it all. The other one. I'd like to give you examples of where people's deputies were searched: in which machines, in which machines the national MPs were searched by the DPS inspectors or the DAI inspectors. We don't know that. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs did not provide any guidance on this matter. I'd like to agree with that anyway. And in this draft law, we only give it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u144	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. You traded. Mikola Vasilovich, don't raise your hands, you've exchanged lines. The prime minister responded to your accusations, and he made the right use of the reply. So please consider Bill No., the draft Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences. There are also short - term bills: 2623, 2623-1, 2623-2, 2623-3. The first draft of Karnauh Mikola Vasilovich will be reported. Please. I'm sorry, I was wrong. It was Kravchenko who knocked me out of the way. Draft Act on Amendments to the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine, 4507, 4507-1, 4446, under a reduced procedure. [[concerning the deletion of the certificate]] Report by Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u145	Adam Ivanovich, I've never been deprived of a line. That's why I'm asking for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u146	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, Mikola Vasilovich. You report the bill, then I'll give you a copy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u147	Dear Mikhail Vasilevich, first of all, I didn't call you criminals. That's the first one. Second. I'm clearly telling you by the numbers, and I don't need them for 300 years. And half the people's deputies don't need them. This is a signal to you, Mikhail Vasilevich, that your Attractor or the GAI leadership do not plan on these machines the bribes they plan for each shift. And just so they know that this car can't be touched because it's not served here, you know? And I don't need them for 300 years. I've been driving and driving since 1964, and I'm going to drive even though you're making up different stories. But today, I'm clearly telling you, Mikhail Vasilevich, when I'm driving from Kiev to Donetsk, I'm afraid to stop by the day of the GAI workers because they're already hitting the VR. That's why I'm gonna bring it to you myself. And the faction of the Communists is that we're going to give you these VR numbers, and we don't need them for 300 years. But the whole question is that we paid you for it. Thanks for the line. Now it's on the bill. Bill 4507 is the element I spoke of earlier. Today, we reject the illegal actions of the Minister of the Interior on the question of the removal of rights. And it's very interesting, look. These rights have begun with the arrival of the new Minister of Belkoń. And there's a new Deputy Minister Pristinek who's in charge of this. And I'm very sorry that the man I respect is reporting and listening to this today is all I want to say to Pristenjak. That if he came from Crimea through Poltava to Kiev, that doesn't mean he has to dictate conditions all over Ukraine. To date, the Minister's order has been suspended. But in the areas of mass, the appeal is that in the areas they continue to blackmail drivers by holding a right, and then, you know, instead of the 17 bracelets, instead of running away and not looking for their rights that are supposed to be sent to court, he pays a hundred and leaves quietly, he leaves quickly. In addition, rights are taken today for a minor violation: they have been mistouched, their belts not fastened, for any violations. And I'm very excited about this next moment. Well, look, the deputy minister's been reporting under the previous law that the GAI, 10 million drivers of disgusting people, are breaking the rules. All those who went to the casinos were suicides, too. One GAI doesn't know, they don't sleep, one GAI only deals with this problem. They want to fence. So why is it that the police today do not know that 10,000 Ukrainians have died today from the use of bad vodka? Where's the bill that would put the people who are poisoning our people on the wall? There is no such bill. Based on the logic of increasing the driver's liability only on the path of tightening, where is the IMF bill to return the death penalty? Today, rape, robbery, robbery are flourishing everywhere, but none of them say that we should go on the road. We have brought legislation to a European level, and in 2001 you and I adopted the bill on administrative offences, and we have brought legislation to Europe. Why is there only one service, the Ministry of the Interior, involved in one climate? Second. Why is this service today not dealing with the problem of roads: construction and repair. Today they are not organizing the movement, they are monitoring its execution. Therefore, in the Code of 4552, we have provided for all these acts. My bill clearly deletes article 15, paragraph 13, of the Road Traffic Act, which is prohibited from being removed, the return that the Ministry of the Interior enjoys and allows the team to remove those rights. Therefore, I ask that the bill 4507 be supported and resolved so that there are 300 votes. Because they will address the President. But given that we are all ideologically united today in the fact that we cannot give 10 million drivers away on roads, I ask tomorrow to vote on Law 4507. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u148	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Please report your bill to national MP Drachevsky Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act and the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which aim to improve the mechanism of impact on the state of emergency and road traffic injury due to infringements by drivers of traffic regulations, regulations and standards in the field of its safety. I propose to amend article 15 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act and to make it so. On the basis of the grounds for disqualification of the driver's right to drive a vehicle, the State Inspectorate, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine have the right not to return the driver's licence to the decision to revoke such a right. These changes are designed to implement a mechanism of administrative influence on drivers for traffic violations. And reduce the number of injured and killed in road traffic accidents and increase the responsibility of citizens for committing offences. The draft Act aims to improve the effectiveness of the activities of the courts and internal affairs authorities in performing functions aimed at ensuring public order. Respect for the rules of road traffic. If you draw this line below what I told you, I would point out the following, in other words, simply: if there are rules in the Administrative Code that provide for the driver's responsibility, where he is deprived of his right to drive, then the State Inspectorate of Ukraine has the right to delete rights in exceptional cases where a driver is held intoxicated, when a traffic accident is committed and there are victims and so on, for the wrong movement of the railway, where the victims are possible, and so on and so on. I'm not going to count them. Second of all, it's my offer. The analysis shows that one in four traffic protocols to be considered by the courts will be without proper response either because of the offender’s failure to deal with his case or because of the failure to pay the fine. Today, there are more than two million administrative protocols in the courts that are not being considered today. In connection with this proposal to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, article 277 is added to part four of the following wording: If the offender does not appear to deal with the case, the latter is considered absent and the fine is increased by a hundred times. And in article 308 after the words "this code" add to the words "the fine increases by 10 times." What does that mean? I'm willing to go, if my bill is supported in the first reading and in the second reading, bring it in line with the Civil Procedure Code, move from a fine to an untaxed minimum of citizens. What size is that? We can set a specific one with you. But today there is actually vachanalia in the courts for the reason that the wrongdoers today do not appear, and these are the masses that perpetrate wrongdoing for one month at a time, three times, four times, and in various areas of Ukraine. What's important is that the bill improves the response to most traffic violations by local courts, the implementation of the bill will improve administrative legislation, significantly reduce the number of injured and killed in road traffic accidents. It will strengthen the responsibility of citizens for committed offences, improve the implementation of regulations to bring administrative responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u150	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, the following bill will be reported by National Deputy Klimpush. Please. Those who speak. And right away, Oreste Dmitrovich, and the report. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u151	Thank you. I'd just like to report on or informing the law of MP Mikol Crutz, just to remind him that he's also meant to solve the same problem, but he foresees the right to leave, to remove the credentials under the circumstances that Drachevsky's national deputy was talking about. And all the bills are mentioned. I'm getting to the information from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u152	It's like a co-reporter from the committee, Oreste Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u153	These bills are discussed in the Committee, our Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. The situation that has arisen, as everyone has understood today, is caused by the conflict and inadequacy of our two laws - the Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Road Traffic Rules and the Law on Road Traffic. All the colleagues here spoke, including Colleague Kravchenko, who explained the situation. Therefore, by considering this situation and wanting to bring our legislation into line, we support in principle Bill 4507 of Deputy Kravchenk, which aims at regulating the legal relationship that arises between the State inspectors and the drivers of the means of transport. The project is intended to delete part of article 15 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, which refers to the right of state officials to not return the driver's licence. So we're actually. This is completely affected by Bill 4281-1, which was reported by the people of Mazurenko. Its elements. In this situation, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that bill 4507 of those considered can be adopted as a basis in the first reading. The committee is proposing this draft law amending the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act as a result of a first reading review to be adopted on the basis, when preparing for the second reading of the bill, to take into account the relevant positive points in other bills, and to foresee additional factors that would actually help to increase the irreparability of penalties, which should be fair and more disciplined by drivers, but not by removing the licence. The draft ruling is given to you, please support our proposal for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u154	Thank you, Orestes Dmitrovitch, for the operational report and, of course, sit down, please. Why don't we not discuss it? We will. Then please, Bespallian, behind him is Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u155	Thank you. Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! For the first time, though, I feel that the road is not a place to find relationships like this. So I think we should all be partners on the road, of course, our duty to protect drivers on the road and create normal conditions and respect for employees and the DAI, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs as well. So the conflicts here are inappropriate, now according to Bill 4507, which was represented by Deputy Drachewski. First. The increase in fines, I already said a few minutes ago because we know we're writing to increase the amount of fines, we mean increase the size of bribes. That's all that's gonna happen. This inevitability of small fines is really appropriate. The second position proposed is that, on the basis of the reasons for the driver’s removal from the vehicle’s control, the hajis have the right not to return the licence. I ask, Who will determine whether there are such reasons? If this is not an honest tip to take bribes again, how else can this be explained? I think that's an unacceptable norm. The court and only the court have the right to dispose of the vehicle. Otherwise, for some reason, we have the presumption that drivers are responsible. Why is it completely incomprehensible? And before the matter is resolved by the court, no one has the right to his own judgment to deprive the driver of his driving. The next question is a coalition of traffic laws and the Code of Administrative Offences. And I'm here to speak to the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It is known that there is such a legal principle that in a conflict of laws that have the same legal force, and these laws have the same legal force, a rule that is more late in time, i.e. changes to the law to the Administrative Code, which specifically prohibits the removal of a certificate. So I'm asking very much right now on the mobile phone or whatever to give the command to stop this abuse immediately and stop taking the license to drive, and more importantly, to unlock the numbers. Now by the law of 4507. I think there's this bill here, it's concise, it's clearly written, and I think it needs to be fully supported, because, first of all, it brings the road traffic law into line with the Code of Administrative Offences, and second of all, it's right in fact. They have no right for State inspectors to decide matters that can be settled only by a court, that is to say, to seize the driver’s rights, to draw numbers or anything else. They should focus on their basic responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u156	Thank you, Boris Yakovich and for the know-how: you invented a mobile right. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation today when the traffic rules, which are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, stand above other laws. Think about it, please, isn't that absurd? That's why we're proposing a draft Codex on Road Traffic. That won't happen. One. The other one. Today, there is a situation where a Ukrainian citizen in the territory of the Ukrainian State is in a worse position than a foreign national. Because a citizen of a foreign state comes with a certificate, or from, or whatever it is they call it, in every state in different ways, but a citizen of a foreign state has no gift of warning, and a Ukrainian citizen has a gift of warning. I'm saying it's unconstitutional. Cancel it. The government of Yanukovich is silent. Why did Mr. Karakai run to the President? I honestly thought that he would refute the information that appeared on the Internet about flying six times under a stranger’s name in the Arab Emirates. Mr. Kornienko, I'd like to hear from you whether it's true or not. I thought he was gonna make it up to the President. Suddenly, it appears that there are extreme national MPs in the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to know, have your attention. I'm calling Prime Minister Yanukovic. On December 9, 2003, under 1887, the Government signed the Order "Some Issues of Procurement of Goods and Services of the DAI Ministry", where two items are secret. But what lies beneath these secret points? This is a violation of the Law on the Purchase of Goods and Services, totally, by the DAI MVS. It's just that corruption is done in an equal place. People good, stop! I'm writing a speech. The Cabinet of Ministers hasn't canceled that yet. Now I'm looking at how they're setting up a minister. In fact, 7,000 people died on the roads. It's a tragedy. But I invite you today and I am very pleased to have Mr. Sali here. I now invite George Kirk to go through what he did to his men today on the Odessa Kiev route. Come on in, please. In the ten years that I traveled to Odessa, there was no such thing. During the German- Fascist occupation, when the bombs fell, they didn't destroy the road the way it was destroyed. And that's what accidents are all about. Let Kirp look and take action. There's people crashing all the time, and now we're going to initiate a lawsuit to Mintrans, call in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u158	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think it'll be even and smooth soon, and they'll do a good job on the way to Odessa. It's over. We'll decide tomorrow. The question that I have already announced is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Road Traffic Violations. Registration numbers 2623, 2623-1, 2 and 3. Mikola Vasilovich Karnauh reports. I'd like to ask, fellow Members, perhaps in three minutes, all of you, please have a brief three-minute schedule, and I'm going to continue for 15 minutes so that we can make decisions about all the bills that are related to the traffic rules today and the traffic rules tomorrow, because they're interconnected. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u159	We are all witnesses to the fact that many drivers of vehicles. Undisciplined and left behind means of transport, stopping, standing on the streets, roads, in other areas of violation of the rules and thereby hindering the normal activity of various road and maintenance areas. And it also creates conditions for the kidnapping of vehicles. In order to strengthen my responsibility, I propose a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Administrative Offences under number 2623, which aims to implement an administrative mechanism to influence drivers for violating traffic regulations or parking on the streets, roads or railways, and to introduce an active administrative response mechanism from law enforcement authorities to drivers who violate the rules. The essence of this bill is to complement article 122, paragraph 122.4, with the following content: "Breaking the rules of stopping or parking by drivers of vehicles on the streets, roads and railways." Infringement of these rules entails imposing a fine on drivers of vehicles ranging from 10 to 20 untaxed minimums of citizens’ income or depriving them of the right to drive a vehicle for a period of three to six months. I also propose to complete part one of article 222 of the Code of Administrative Offences after the words "hundred and twenty-two." three, add the words "hundred and twenty-two." four," i.e. predict this standard. Also add one part of article 225 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences after the words "hundred and twenty-two" to the digits "122.4" and beyond. In addition to the first part of article 258 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, in the following words, after the words “art. 100 nineteen” add the digits “122.4” and continue to follow the text. I also propose to supplement article 265 of the Code on the Elimination of Objects and Things with part four of the following content: "When committing offences under article 122.4 of this Code, a police officer blocks the wheels of a vehicle with a special device or delivers a transport device to the DAI site for temporary storage." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u160	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Please, the bill is presented by the national deputy of Kirilov Viktor Dmitrovic. I can't see. Then I'll ask the co-rapporteur of the Mazurenko Committee, including this bill, to stop by so that we can look at it. Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko. Have you been called to the DAI? Well, then, please, Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, this law proposes to amend the Code of Administrative Offences, and these changes are primarily related to the increase in administrative fines for infringements of the rules of the road by both drivers and pedestrians. Complementary article. It is proposed that article 122 of the Code on Administrative Offences should be supplemented by a rule whereby violations of the rules of movement for violations of the exercise of the right and left turns are increased, not only for these, but for the full, for a number of other violations referred to in part of this article. It is proposed to increase the fine from 0.50 to 1 of the unladen minimum, the old version. From 2 to 4 it is proposed to impose unnecessary minimum income on citizens or deprivation of the right to manage all modes of transport for a period of three months to one year. This is about drivers. In addition, article 127 of the Code is proposed to amend also the increase in the administrative fine. If the old edition involves 0.1 to 0.5 of the citizens'untaxed income, it is proposed to increase from one to two untaxed citizens'incomes. In addition, the next part of the article also proposes to increase the fine. What does this have to do with anything? First of all, this is due to the fact that this measure is of a precautionary and preventive nature, since this minimum amount of fines today does not create a particular one, so to speak, for both pedestrians and drivers. In addition, it is proposed that changes be made in order to establish a simplified procedure for charging such a fine and, above all, for pedestrians. In order to hold a fine on the ground today without setting up an adminprotocol, and in respect of fines for infringements by drivers, it is also proposed that no court order be applied to impose such a fine. Of course, the driver has the right to appeal any offence, but in court, it is proposed that it be simplified so that the judicial system of such a category of cases is not loaded today. Once again, these changes are proposed only to increase accountability in order to emphasize the responsibility of drivers and pedestrians to violate traffic rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u163	Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. Dear colleagues, each of us has the full right to amend the bill, but I have no doubt that we will not be able to correct the general road traffic legislation. I therefore withdraw Act 2623 because of the bill 4552 - Road Traffic Code. And what I wanted to express in this bill, I would like to submit to the second reading. And I think it'll be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u164	Thank you. Mikolo Vasilovich. Will We Discuss? We will. Please, Kirilczuk, follow him Melniczuk. Excuse me, Eugene Ivanovich, please. Then a co-reporter from the committee. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u165	Maybe I'll cut them some slack. Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. You know, that kind of rush of proposal and billing is basically one problem that tells us that we're not all right here. I mean, first of all, the State and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I think there are even more problems behind the word "road safety" than there are today in this room. I have recently been to Poland, for example. Poland does not produce its electricity, but all roads and even secondary roads are lit. We have the Ministry of Transport building for the President of the Palace in Carpathians, and there is nothing to educate the road, especially in the settlements. And no one has raised that question today. And in the project, even for the Ministry, there are no proposals or claims to this issue. The other one. The quality of the roads. We have an anecdote. They say, "Let's raise you to unemployment when we build good roads." And we say, "Let's get you out of unemployment if our roads are to build your roads." Last year a huge amount of money was spent on the road around Zitomir. This year, the spring has not yet come, all those millions have gone awry, the road is totally unfit for no acts, no responsibility, no guilt, no road. No one is paying attention to this either. One more. The technical side of the case is the correctness of the car. Tell me, from Kiev to the border with Europe, you might find at least one city where the inspector can help adjust the light. I asked one inspector the question: “Listen, you're going to have this tube taken away, you're going to measure the speed, you're going to exceed what you're going to do then?” “I don’t know.” That's the whole specialty thing -- catch, fine or bribe. The road inspector is there to help drivers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, Maria Andriyovna Marcus from the committee, and then Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u167	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Bill No. 2623 proposes to supplement the Code on Administrative Violations of Article 122 Prime 4. Violations of the rules of stopping or parking by drivers of means of transport on streets, roads, and railways are already in part 2 of article 122, where words of violation of the rules of stopping and parking on the roadside are available at the disposal of the article and therefore there is no need to reestablish responsibility for this. In addition, the right of imposition is passed on to internal affairs authorities, i.e. the change in 222. The Committee considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council reject the bill. Draft law 2623 Prime 1. It is proposed that individual infringements of the traffic rules should be dealt with by the authorities of the internal affairs authorities without such a right by the courts. This is contrary to article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is why it is unacceptable, and the Legislative Security Committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be rejected. With regard to 2623, 2 is now the author of the legislative initiative by the Ukrainian national deputy Kravchenk. With regard to Bill 2623, Prime Minister-3 proposes to establish administrative responsibility for the failure of drivers of transport vehicles to take advantage of pedestrians in the course of their return, but the responsibility for not providing drivers with transport vehicles is already in place. Whether or not it is necessary to establish the exact effect of the return is not clear. In addition, the bill proposes to increase administrative responsibility for the failure of pedestrians to obey traffic signals, pass them through the road, and so on and so forth. The Legislative Security Committee has considered this bill by Deputy Kosinov and considers it necessary to recommend it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u168	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Please, Melniczuk, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u169	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm going to vote in favour of the Bill of People's MP Mikola Karnauha, and I think there's a lot of positiveness for both road traffic and parking and other issues addressed by this bill. But I'm glad that the President of Ukraine finally took the road, and that they're going to take the numbers and the deputies and everyone else. But. No, no, taken or not taken, I have my own opinion. But what I'm trying to say is, will they take the numbers and the cars to the bandits? It's not about the number of the MP, it's for God's sake! I personally refuse them at all, because when I see a car flying in Kiev with an open, so to speak, taken, and in this car ten young people drank beer and whistled music, and on this car the numbers of the Supreme Council, I don't want the cars I'm driving to have the numbers of the Supreme Council, because the shame of the Supreme Council is that there's no control over who these numbers went to. Next question. And if we adopt and vote on all the road traffic bills tomorrow, will we see more order on the road? Nothing like that. As they drove cool cars, as they threw dollars to the right, left to the militia, that's what they would do, because there would be no control. Will he be protected by a driver of an old - fashioned track if he is chased by a cool car? It won't be protected. And that's why I think until there's order in the police force, and I'm addressing you, Mikhailo Vasilovich, to you: I personally recognized in New Year's Eve what a police force is. I saw, along with some of the citizens in the Novoseltsky region of Cherniewice, how the Novoselický Ryviddell works and his police chief. When the MP of the age finds the chief of police and can't find him, I can imagine what would happen if I was on the road with the police, who would protect me. I think we need to put order in the police, not find the guilty in the rooms and others. The police are corrupt. As in the DAI Viznicki district, where I received an answer to my MP's statement that there was nothing wrong with it, and the person who was affected by the DAI employee didn't even talk to her from the DAI district. And we want order?Oh, my God! You make your own order!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u170	Thank you. But it also takes law for the police to bring order. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to express my sincere thanks to the Ukrainian national deputy Kravchenk Mikoli Vasilovich for having withdrawn his project honestly and courageously today, saying that all these bills are not necessary for the state. It is necessary to amend the code and adopt a code of road traffic laws. Which I am asking for commission, Adam Ivanovich, to ensure that he is placed at the request of several factions in the order of the day. Because it's going to be a long way to go if we're going to have to decide in the DAI what projects we're going to be looking at today. Now let's move on. Now, I have great respect for all the deputies who spoke before me. But, dear friends, to establish administrative responsibility for breaking the rules of parking and parking, it is already envisaged. This is for Project 2623 of Mr. Karnauha. It is already provided for in article 122 of the Codex. In addition, if a fine of between 170 and 340 dollars is to be fixed, it is to be understood that it is even more than the average wage in many Ukrainians at one time. So let's say that this project is somewhere. by the wicked one. Another position in this bill, also from the evil one, is transporting to the DAI site for temporary storage. Do you have any idea how much you have to pay on a day? Fifty bracelets, and in some places more. And there's no guarantee that it'll be saved there. I'm getting a lot of complaints today, and all the nodding MPs are getting these complaints about not being stored there. And we say we accept this bill. Bill 2623 is harmful. Draft law 2623-1. It's changing the people's deputy, Kirilov. With a view to returning the rights of internal affairs officials to deal with cases of administrative misconduct. Your Honor, this is contrary to the Constitution. That is why on April 5, 2001, I am proud that this honor belonged to me, in this rostrum I reported, and we took this feudal right into the militia. Get back to it? Your Honor, let's make some changes, let's show you no statistics to confirm that. And thank God that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority made it clear that this cannot be done. So after the People's Kravchenko, Eudokymov and others have withdrawn their bill with the "2" badge, there's only a fraction of the rules of the Kosinov bill, where I support it that we need today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're done. We'll be clear tomorrow. Yuri Anatoliyovich and others, none of the DAIs will intervene or put us in the order of the day. Everything we've put and had little bearing on these issues, we've been working on it today, as you can see. There's one more question left. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for violation by drivers of road transport regulations for the operation of vehicles. [[Registration number 3497]] Report by Master Vladimir Jakovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing you with such a very painful problem, given that I'm an MP from Winnitz, you know what the problem was with the taxi routes, and today there's no problem with someone standing in a taxi today. The essence of the bill of amendments to the law is to give order to standing passengers in taxis. Ukraine's draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the violation by drivers of taxi drivers of the rules on the operation of means of transport designed to improve administrative legislation on the liability of drivers of taxi drivers for violating the rules on the operation of vehicles when passenger transport is carried out. It is proposed to amend and supplement part four and fifth of article 121 of the Code on Administrative Offences, to strengthen the administrative responsibility of taxi drivers for violating passenger transport rules to establish administrative responsibility from two to five non-taxed minimum rates of income for citizens. For drivers of vehicles operating in taxiways, passengers are not provided with seating positions when they are transported. Transport of passengers over the number of seats identified in the registration documents to the means of transport or transfer of the technical characteristics of the vehicle. I mean, today, you see what's going on in the road transport, which is my position and it's being supported today by the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, including the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine. I've had to perform on these committees repeatedly and constantly prove that white, that's white, that's black, that's black. It's very simple. If there are regulations for the operation of the transport in question, the number of passengers should correspond to no more than that. Otherwise, when we look at this problem from the other side, it's stopping cars we're going to see a certain position with trauma on the one hand, and on the other hand let's not forget that when we're using a taxi, we'd like to get a good service. Nor does the driver need to determine how many passengers he is said to have reached that route. And how many standing passengers do you have to hang over your head? But once again, the main goal of my bill is to reduce trauma in this mode of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u174	Thank you, Vladimir Yakovich. Please, from the Legislative Security Committee, Maria Andriyovna Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u175	The Honourable Chief, Honorary Colleagues, the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Protection, considered the bill submitted by the Ukrainian National MP, Masterskin, and others, number 3497. The bill proposes to strengthen the administrative responsibility of taxi drivers for violating passenger transport rules. Also, establish administrative responsibility for the non-sustainment of passengers by seating positions during their transport. The committee supported the proposed bill on the grounds set out in the explanatory note by the legislator and considered it possible to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus is also of the same opinion. The legal field in this section was empty, there was no responsibility for the violation of article 35 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, which removes the gap in legislation and ensures the fulfilment of the requirements of paragraph 3.6. of the order and conditions for the organisation of passenger transport and luggage by road, approved by the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine since 21 January 98 at number 21 on intercity, international and taxi-motor routes, where the number of passengers is not to exceed the number of seats. And I ask you, during the vote, to support the bill and to adopt it on the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u176	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Yes, those desiring may not be involved in the discussion. There's a list. But I can't see Kowalczuk. Yuri Anatolyevich just checked in. Will You Perform? Well, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u177	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is now being proposed is in fact also a bill that is to be submitted to the Single Road Traffic Code. And putting holes in the code, the administrative code that I'm going to remind you of was adopted by the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R. on December 5, 1984, for a very long time. But I call upon the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Mr. Moses' Law Enforcement, I urge you, there is now a presence and one of his leaders only in the Hall. I call on you, this code requires a new edition, a new approach, you can't keep patching it up and whatever Mr. Master of our colleague's plan and desire to stop what standing passengers are carrying them in taxis today with only administrative levers is hard to stop. Because people issue these licenses, they can just be taken away, taken away if people don't comply with these rules that are foreseen. And I know that the city council has taken care of this issue, and that these issues are not being resolved today, and they are not being resolved, including the news reports that the DAI employees are collecting taxes in this way from taxi drivers and not to see, to close their eyes, to the violations that are taking place. So I think the Kyiv City Council should control that, too. Of course, this increase, simply raising the rate of fines from two to five non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens, is probably not solving the issue in this case, it is a matter for executive authority. Although more control over passenger transport by taxi drivers is needed. But I still think that's what needs to be done in the Code of Road Traffic Laws, and I urge the Committee of Legislative Security to review the Code of Administrative Offences, which has been adopted by the Supreme Council since then in the U.S.R. He is burdened with amendments, changes, and additions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u179	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Vladimir Yakovic, I, an honorary colleague, will support your bill, and I think the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will also vote, because there are, in fact, many violations today by drivers of taxi drivers. In general, I don’t think most people need to look at the people who, when they buy a taxi, work for their family. We understand how many others he feeds, besides his family, are the employees of other organs, both others and others, and so on. Hence, they do not have to do things that violate the rules of transportation, so they take more people into their taxis to earn and feed not only their family but also others. But I would like to finish my speech with the following: Mikhail Vasilovich, I am again addressing you and I would like to say that I am very grateful to the leadership of the Montenegrin Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who, on the New Year's Eve, responded immediately to my address and the bandits today, six men in prison. They'll be sitting where they're supposed to be, eating dozens of people at a discotheque in Novoselica that night. And I'm thanking the leadership of the Ministry, and the chief, and the deputies who responded, but I want to let you know that there are many other disadvantages, and you need to do a good cleaning, see who is working in the police today, in law enforcement agencies that are supposed to protect Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I remind you, I've gone on for 15 minutes, so we're not breaking the Rules. We have five minutes left. If it is your will, the Rabbit asks us to consider the Law on Hunting. Is there any objection? Come on, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please listen to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting, Bill 4194. [[on terms]] From the Committee Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, First Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u181	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council of Ukraine have recently received numerous appeals from a wide range of public: members of the Spring Without Shooting campaign, the Green Gomín Public Environmental Associations, the Children's Gomín, the Sokal Group of the Student Building of the Lviv Region, the Kiev City Sanhedrin District, the Green World Environmental Humanitarian Union, the coalition of Ukrainian environmental NGOs and other public organizations, expressing fair concern for the preservation of birds and other animal life objects and the prohibition of spring hunting in Ukraine. Spring hunting for birds was not in Ukraine for more than half a century, and only after the adoption of the new hunting rules in 1996 did the Law on Hunting and Hunting introduce spring hunting for males from the ice, the tetrax, Waldschnep and the geese: cheese, the big whitehead, the humennik. The issue of the ban on spring hunting has been debated for several years, and every time the concern for our smaller brothers' birds comes up with one argument: the gambling of hunter-gatherers. I say "cookers," not "good hunters." I don't have to hear any bile as a national deputy and a former minister of ecology to protect this kind of hunting. Most often, though, it was said that these birds had developed so much that they were mass destruction of the osmium. And in order to avoid harm to agriculture, we need to use such birds not only during summer and autumn hunting, but also during the spring season in March and April, to kill when long-distance birds return with faith to their homelands when they prepare for nesting. In fact, these Jeeps that are coming by the big bosses are being pushed to shoot these birds. During the spring hunt, other birds banned from shooting appear to be like geese, including those found in the Red Book of Ukraine. During spring hunting, there are additional causes of anxiety that disrupt fish litters, birds nesting, and the reproductive functions of wild animals. According to the committee, the time has come to finally solve this problem of banning spring hunting. The fact that the number of birds does not increase year after year is rapidly reduced. Yes, according to the 1976 State Statistical Report, in the year leading up to the introduction of the spring hunt in Ukraine, 395,000 geese were recorded. That's just 217 in 2000-2002. The average number of geese during the spring hunting period was 123 thousand. In 1976, there were 165 thousand, and in 2002 there were 128 thousand. The same is true of animal life. There are no actual elks, bears have reduced their numbers twice. The same is true of noble deer and other things. More than five minutes, I was given one. No, I'm reporting, it's a report. I can't. That's a report, give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u182	One more minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u183	I can't tell you seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u184	That's your problem. Please, two minutes, Carmazin will give you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u185	A little while ago, as Minister of Ecology, I suggested that we introduce five to seven years of moratoriums on hunting in Ukraine. Then my statement caused a storm of emotion among hunters who were convinced that the animal world of Ukraine was not in danger. It's been three years, and now I hear more and more of the same people saying, "Today you can walk through the woods for three days and not even see the mark of the beast." Therefore, all interested parties today must take immediate steps to remedy the situation. We are well aware that one moratorium on hunting cannot be limited. Other mechanisms need to be included, including increased funding for the protection and reproduction of animals and birds. Thus, the adoption of today’s law is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the preservation of the animal world. Today’s decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to demonstrate the concern of the higher legislative body in Ukraine as a state of affairs in this area and our determination to make every effort to remedy the situation. Well, give me, look, half a page. Five minutes to report, Carmazin gave me. Dear friends, I understand hunters. In addition to all of the above, spring hunting is contrary to the centuries-old national and cultural traditions of Ukrainians, the principles of spiritual and environmental education of children. In the United States, Canada, most European countries are banned from spring hunting. In 2003, the State Environmental Administration of Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Žitomirsk, Zaporzik, Kyivsk, Odessk, Ternopilsk, Kharkiv, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea spoke of the impossibility of carrying out the spring hunt. The requirement to ban spring hunting is supported by the Institute of Zoology of the National Academy of Ukraine. Spring hunting is legal poaching because it is practically uncontrollable and leads to the destruction of the elite gene pool of birds, and it must be banned once and for all. The committee discussed the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting, introduced by the People's Deputy, the O.V. and unanimously acknowledged the need for its adoption, which will contribute to the rational use of hunting animals, the preservation of the animal world, and the positive effects of bird reproduction. The implementation of the law does not require additional costs from the state budget. No comments were received from the Committees on Budget and European Integration. The findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority are positive. The committee requests support and acceptance of this bill, taking into account the editorial rights expressed by the committee. I ask him to accept it from me tomorrow as a whole, for March is not far off. And if we don't take it tomorrow, it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u186	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues! It's a Blue Rabbit bill. Please give me one minute. Carmazine, because he gave the reporter two minutes. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u187	Dear National Deputies! Carmazine only takes a minute to tell you. Dear friends! In 2003, the spring hunt of Turkey and Bulgaria, which are our neighbors, was banned. In the United States and Canada, spring hunting has been banned since 1913. Dear friends, this law really isn't because it's being offered today by Zazem and Dove, people who have such vivid names. It's needed by the state, it's needed today to reproduce the animals they're hunting, because it's going to reduce the population of these animals, these birds, it's scary. So I suggest that you accept it in the first and second readings. Thank you. I got here in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u188	Thank you. Well, please, the State Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u189	The State Committee for Forest Management is Marcuk Yuri Mikolaiovich. There are a few details that I recommend. The government of the Cabinet of Ministers, in view of the fact that the Hunting and Hunting Act allows for this kind of hunting, but the State Committee of Forestry, by its regulations, opened it only once during the entire period of Ukraine, was 1 year old. There really is a problem. And the problem is not as simple as it seems today, because a pack of telegrams before considering this law, which came from all farmers especially in the Herson area, where the geese actually have a fly, will do some damage. We worked with the same Academy of Sciences, which recommends that we consider this issue, study it in more detail, give it a year, two spends. And the trials in these places, which are in relation to the government of America and Canada, that in 1999 they passed the Act "On what hunting on watch allows, because the geese of the larger population will do some harm. So there's a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers, a position, more loyally, the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't support this law, but it offers to study it more seriously through the Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-02-18-m0.u190	Thank you. The review of changes to the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting has been completed. Ivan Aleksandrovich, tomorrow in the vote, you'll say we'll determine tomorrow. Dear colleagues, we'll work hard with you, thank you for your cooperation. This morning’s session is closed. Next up, work on committees and factions. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Good-bye.
