ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:14]] They registered 401 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Dmitry Alexanderovich. Let's welcome him and wish him every success and good luck. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with the Rules and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the National Deputies - Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, Majko Vitali Ivanovich and Gureyev Vasil Mikolaiovich - state their exit from the MP faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next announcement, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Vladimir Leonidovich, into the "One Ukraine" faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I inform of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies - Zarubinsky Oleg Alexanderovich, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, Olujka Vitalija Mikolaiovich and Shevchuk Sergey Volodymirovich - into the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a list of issues to discuss today. We agreed yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, a joint meeting with the economic government, headed by the prime minister, that today at 11 a.m. we will begin the consideration of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2005. 11 o'clock. Let me also inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on December 22, yesterday. Nine issues of the agenda were considered. In addition, I would like to remind you that 140 parliamentary requests were made, statements by authorized representatives from factions and groups with statements, reports, and information. In addition, nine issues of the agenda — 12 bills — have been considered. As a result of their consideration: One law has been passed, two bills adopted in the first reading, one bill has been drafted, five bills have been rejected, and three bills have been transposed. Dear National Deputies, two factions -- the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and our Ukraine -- require a 30-minute recess according to the Rules. Perhaps you would make an application and not take a break, for what did you require a break? Please, Rudzkowski Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u2	Dear People's Deputies, twice our faction and personally the head of the party Alexander Alexander Moroz on the Conciliation Council asked that we, in developing the changes made to the Constitution, develop our parliamentaryism and methods of balancing power, vote on the Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council. On this issue, if you take the history of this issue, there was yet another assignment of 20.05 for the First Deputy Head of the Martiniuk Supreme Council. 04. The committee has been working on this issue, and there is a conclusion that the expert management signed by Matsuk has changed. I am addressing you, honourable national deputies: we have faced a major problem in the work of the Special Investigation Commissions, as in the Gongadze case, as in the case of others, in the case of the Bank of Ukraine, Mukachevo and others. We need to significantly increase parliamentary control. Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich's profile committee significantly improved this law, taking into account many of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. In a working way, we can put this issue to the vote of the Supreme Council and vote in a new edition. I am addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if the issue is raised twice on the Conciliation Council in a row, there is an agreement that the matter will be considered in the session room, it needs to be put to a vote, voted and moved on. This is an important component of parliamentary control if we go to the parliamentary-presidential republic. And there is no need to delay this question if there are even some lobbyist interests or personal fears that the issue may be voted on and will have any further political influence. I am convinced that all the deputies who have lived under the oppression of their time of the President's Administration and the commands to vote in any way will vote for it. Secondly, we demand that tomorrow the Supreme Council, the author of the Kosovos, be ordered to suspend the terms of office for violating the oath of the court, the Constitutional Court, Judge Eugrafov. Please, we want this matter to be considered today, which I have raised on the commission of inquiry, and according to Judge Eugrafov, to be put to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u3	In line with the first proposal made by Mikola Rudzikowski, this question was raised for consideration by the Supreme Council, which was reported at the last meeting of the Conciliation Council. We voted against the veto, taking into account the President's proposals. None of these proposals received the required number of votes. The law is rejected. Let's have a new bill -- let's look at it. I say the law is rejected. If we go back, then let's make a special decision about the return, but the law is rejected. Mikolo, please! As to the second issue of the decision, I would then ask that this decree be shown. If it is, we'll refer it to the committee. If there is no objection, we will consider. But the committee's orders must be appropriate. I want to say it again. Mikola Mikolaiovich, I spoke on the Conciliation Council. Monday was considered at the Conciliation Council. Once again, we will return. I explained that there was no objection. Please calm down! That's right, you made a statement. Dear National MPs, the draft Ordinance on the early termination of the powers of Ukrainian National Deputy Zubanov is being announced. Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, yesterday evening before the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, came under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a statement to the national deputy, Zubanov Volodymyr Alexanderovich on the composition of his parliamentary powers. In his statement, he motivates this need to develop or carry out a personal political project. The committee, as you can understand, was unable to consider the application. But it is the will of the Supreme Council: to support or not to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, our colleague Zubanov and the Supreme Council could decide to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy, Zubanov Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, elected in the one-maned constituency of the 60th in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. [[Donetsk Region]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u5	There is a question. Three minutes. Please sign up. Jaroslav Kenzier, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u6	Jaroslav Kenzior, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenk's faction "Our Ukraine". An honourable reporter, oddly enough, it seems for four cadences when I'm in the Supreme Council, such a parliamentary suicide I've seen and heard for the first time. Have you considered your committee, as it were, the real motives that moved Mr. Zubanov to write such a statement, since this general phrase about a personal political project there does not speak of anything? What are these two truths in connection with the filing of such an application? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u7	Thank you. In fact, we haven't considered any of the applications with such motivation yet, but it's a personal matter of our colleague of the people's deputy Zubanov Vladimir Alexandrovich, and I've already said that the committee didn't consider his application at its meeting, which could have been, and it couldn't have happened yesterday night. So all the questions about filing a claim, I think they can only be addressed personally by Vladimir Alexandrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u8	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u9	"Regions of Ukraine." Please pass the word to Vassili Potapov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u10	Vasil Ivanovich Potapov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u11	Vladimir Grigoryevich, according to you, the MP's statement was written, he wrote it voluntarily, he wrote it at his own request, and apparently he was motivated by some reason. And what if we say someone doesn't want to let Zubanov go, and we just put a fib here, do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u12	I, Vasil Ivanovich, have already said that it is the will of the national MP to direct him to a mandate. So this is his personal decision. And this should be determined by the Supreme Council in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u13	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Grigorovich! Dear colleagues! We all know how difficult it is to win the trust of our constituents, how difficult it is to obtain the mandate of a national deputy. I know a colleague of Zubanov's from the Industrial Policy Committee, and to me, frankly, it's a really strange haste in making this decision. So, really, both colleagues and I personally wonder, what is the reason why the statement is so hasty, and how do voters react? It may be necessary to give Zubanov’s colleagues the opportunity to explain why such a hasty decision is being made. Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u15	Thank you, Anatoly Mikolaiovich, for asking. I would like to reiterate that the application was written personally by Vladimir Alexandrovich Zubanov. But they are written in haste, not hasty, and for some time comes, and they appear, or any other statement. So, I think, here's the haste that concerns him personally, there's no, and for the reason that there's a statement, it's probably the only question you can answer, you're right only to Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, but the motivation of yours, your attitude towards the MP's mandate, that's to ask for parliamentary powers, he's, as I said in his personal statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u16	Yes. Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich, time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? For reasons, please write down three minutes of motive. Yes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who were enrolled for the talk with motive. Jaroslav Kenzier again, please, then Coloniari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u17	Jaroslav Kenzior, Ukrainian People's Movement, Viktor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine". I'm really having a lucky day. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on this issue, I would suggest that you invite the author of the application to the rostrum, because the session hall already has a variety of assumptions that Vladimir Alexander Zubanov received either under some pressure or under some kind of reward he had a wish: to remove his or her mandate to release this place for the complete bankruptcy of Viktor Yanukovic. I mean, he's kind of liberating the constituency for a failed candidate for President Viktor Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u18	Yes, Coloniari, please, Alexander Coloniari, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask that you pass the word to Zubanov so that he can explain his position to his colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u20	Please answer all questions immediately. Please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies, respected friends. We have to look at the state budget now, and I think we're looking at my question, I don't know how many regulations are set here, and I want to say how long I'm going to be there. Indeed, the election of the President ends on 26 December, and we all hope that the country will be determined. But we see that the situation in the State, it is very difficult and it is not resolved immediately, no one knows how it will end. At that time, it was difficult for me and my contemporaries to form a party here, to announce the formation of a party in July, to collect signatures. On December 14th, we registered a party with a beautiful idea, as we are sure, of Ukraine's National Neutrality Party. This idea is common to all Ukrainian citizens. And we want to put this idea into practice. The idea is very simple: we want Ukraine to go to the European Union, but in the status of a neutral, non-block state, we want it to move economically and develop innovative policies. And we want family values to be predominant for our citizens, in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u22	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, well, did the man say you wanted to get more? Please, Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. We have been with you many times as some of our colleagues have stuck to the MP's mandate as a lice for fur. I'm talking about those so-called accomplices who can't be squeezed out of the Supreme Council for breaking their oath and violating the Constitution of Ukraine even with the help of our fairest and most humane court in the world. In this case, the person has openly told us about his beliefs and what he wants to do. I take it off in front of the honourable colleague of my hat, and I urge us all to vote for his request and to be worthy of what he has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Zubanova is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:23:58]] For 193 Just a minute. Zubanov's microphone, Vladimir Alexanderovich. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u25	Dear friends, this is the vote that's passed, I can only feel it, you all understand what a political party is. You know, it's hard to spin in one year. But you felt political competition in that idea, and you don't vote, you don't want me to let myself develop this idea and come to Parliament, and there were 17, 18 deputies in 2006. Please vote, these are my constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u26	The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 47, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 29, National Agrarian Party - 1, STI - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 13, Block Timoshenko - 0, "Soyuz" - 11, Labour Ukraine - 7, NDP and SPTU - 3, "Centre" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 5, "Afterfraction - 19. Ladies and gentlemen, I still think this is the first time in history that a man voluntarily goes out of Parliament -- no one wants to let him go. May I have your attention, please? The draft decree on the permanent suspension of the power of Ukrainian national deputy Zubanov Volodymira Alexandrovich is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:25:51]] For 216 Then I suggest you have some more negotiations, and we'll come back to that question later. [[To - 216]] Yeah, what? They don't want to let go. You have to think. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukraine" - 51, Communists - 58, SDPU - 29, People's Agrarian - 21, SPU - 1, "One Ukraine" - 10, Timoshenko - 0, "Soyuz" - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" -6, "Centre" - 0, "Trubic Ukraine" - 7, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 5, non-fractional - 17. Well, do some consulting. Then, if we have to, we'll come back. Ladies and gentlemen, we've agreed that we'll get to the budget after 11 o'clock. Depends on what you do. As we will determine with the budget, we will also consider proposals for changes to the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council. That is, we will consider these two documents in association. That's why the bill on simple and double testimonials is now under review. [[second reading]] Hirschfeld Anatoly Musiovich, please. Then we will consider Law 6363. Is Anatoly Musiovich here? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u27	Respected Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Committee on Economic Policy, Management of Peoples' Economy, Property and Investments, proposes to consider the second reading of the draft Law on Double and Single Storage Testimony. More than 108 amendments were made. Having considered the drafting of the law, the working group had made every effort to take all views fully into account. The deviations of the proposed amendments were mainly related to the literary drafting of the law and part of the amendments concerned an article that had been excluded from the draft law because the relevant provisions of the Civil Code had been duplicated. The Committee suggests that the second reading should be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u28	Honorable National MPs, who insist on their amendments, which you think have not been taken into account? Boris Bespali, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u29	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Amendment 58, it's rejected, I don't agree it's editorial. The bill proposes that the assessment of the product be carried out in accordance with legislation, and I propose that it be carried out in accordance with the law. And that's no small thing at all. I read the decision of the Constitutional Court, which reads: "The term 'legislature' should be understood as encompassing the laws of Ukraine, the international treaties in force, and the Supreme Council's rulings, the decrees of the President of Ukraine, the decrees and the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. I mean, we've seen it many times before, when the score is faked, the last example is "Clubberstal." The assessment is to be carried out on the basis of the law and only the law, especially since we have a special law on evaluation and evaluation. And this is going to be a mechanism of mass theft, price cuts, or rather price surpluses, which is an underground method. So this amendment of principle, I insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u30	I wanted to explain. That's what the working group used to do when it rejected your amendment. The law itself is the intersection of several laws that already exist and that we have adopted: the bond law, the bank law, the Civil Code and so on. Therefore, in order not to narrow down the legislative field, we have written the word “legislature” in order to act on those laws that have already been adopted by the Supreme Council under the mechanisms set out in the bail law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u31	Well, then let's figure out what this amendment is. Well, let's do this one. Dear colleagues! Well, I'll be right there. I want to support you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I think the logic here is our colleague's iron. Let's make it clear that laws or laws will sign "underlaws, regulations" and so on. So let's vote on this amendment, it's logical for us to go to the rule of law. As a result, the honourable colleagues are voting on Amendment 58 of Boris Bespalogo. At the end of the second article 13, the word "legislature" is replaced by the word "law." Please vote. Yes, there goes the vote, please vote, Your Honor, the rally later, please vote. [[10:31:13]] For 217 It wasn't enough. For - 217. Bespalogo microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I was going to say there's a terminology misunderstanding here. And my position is in line with the committee's position, so that can even be corrected in editorial order. The point is that when we write in the text of the law "regulated by law," and the word "law" is written in a small letter, it means always and only at the level of the law, it doesn't mean one particular law. This notion of "law" in small letters includes the population of all laws of Ukraine without exception, i.e. the difference between the word "law" and the word "legislature" only because it excludes acts of the Cabinet of Ministers, not restricts them to one law. So I think it's a misunderstanding in terms. And I think that the committee, for example, from legal policy, from the Legal Office, and so on, this misunderstanding can be solved. And it came out because the profile committee isn't legal, it's just a technical misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the position of the working group and the committee coincided fully. It's really a drafting exercise. When we wrote the word “legislature”, we took into account the full legislative field that exists today, in which this law should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, let's put the vote again, if there's no objection, and we'll take this amendment into account. It's a technical amendment, but let's just count on it to have cleanliness in our legislative field. The vote is amended by 58 Boris Bespalog. Please vote. Dear colleagues, let's stop the rally. And please vote "Regions," please! [[10:33:14]] For 274 Thank you for hearing. Yes, what are some other warnings? None. So pay attention, distinguished national MPs! The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Law on Simple and Double Ingredient Testimony is put to the vote. Registration number 2527. Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[10:33:52]] For 322 The law is passed. Thank you. It's being announced. With motive? Please, Yuri Carmazin. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u35	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I registered on the first question of a permanent suspension of authority. My projects are not included on the permanent disqualification of co-owners who are registered for both Klavov and other co-conspirators, although there are applications. Here are the questions. Moreover, the card of the National Deputy Satsuka is somehow registered - former Deputy Satsuka - and still registered. He's literally standing there because of me. in one row. I'm surprised at that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and because they don't give a word when they're recorded, and I'm surprised that the cards vote on people whose court has denied the right to be deputies. And I ask you to give me an assignment: The first is to delete the card; The second is to put in those projects that I put out when the co-conspirators' powers are terminated, because every vote is serious. And the third. Ladies and gentlemen! And why don't we think about those people, how much money is going to go to the election? Why don't we think so? Whoever votes, they'll pay for it. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u36	Thank you. I am asking the secretariat and the Regulatory Committee, because we have officially received a wet seal, as is now said, of the decision of the Kyiv City Court of Appeal concerning the Suczek People's Deputy, to make appropriate proposals for our actions on this matter. Please, I'm asking you to do this to the secretariat. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, 6363, is being announced for consideration. [[on taxation of enterprises]] Please, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! You remember last Tuesday’s session, we considered and adopted two bills in the first reading. We agreed with the authors of the laws of Yukhnovsky and Teryohinim, our faction of the People's Agrarian Party of Ukraine, the basic standards. This law was adopted for the only purpose: if the budget provides for funds that act as compensations for value added tax, that is to say, it replaces this tax that acts as a subsidy to the price of agricultural produce for peasants. Then a new law enters into force that removes this rule. So far, there are no such compensators in the budget. Therefore, the law proposes that old tax and tax rates be left in the tax system for added value, and fixed taxes, as was the case this year. The only change is counting down to the Pension Fund. In order to introduce a personalized account of all people who retire to have their own personal accounts, we are transferring the farmers to a gradual transition to payment of this tax. This year, the farmer will pay 6.4 percent of his salary. The rest will be compensated directly from the State Budget to the Pension Fund. In the second year, this percentage will change depending on the amount of compensation. That is, this law is called upon to regulate the APC tax system, tying it to the budget that we have been given to the Supreme Council. When I speak to you, honourable national MPs, I very much ask you to support this Law, because from January 1st we will put the whole sector in a very difficult situation: there will be an additional tax burden of over 3 billion dollars and we will undo those steps that have been taken at least a little bit to price parity, to establish some justice in the field. Thank you very much and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the decision that we can now make, please sit everyone down in the seats of your fellow Members of State, please pay attention. It is the second reading vote and, in general, the Bill of Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Taxation of Agricultural Enterprises, 6363. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:39:38]] For 313 The law is passed. It's announced, according to the factions, please: "Our Ukraine" -33, "Regions of Ukraine" -54, Communists - 58, SDPU - 30, People's Agrarian - 26, SPO - 20, "One Ukraine" - 4, Timoshenko Block - 19, Union - 16, Democratic Initiatives - 12, Center - 7, "Trubic Ukraine" - 8, NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 4, non-fractional - 22. For the reasons of Igor Yukhnovsky, please. Microphone. Oleg Yuhnowski, please. I'm sorry. Well, let the man go. Please, with a motive. The map didn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectful colleagues have indeed voted on an important issue that needed to be amended by the Law on the System of Taxation in connection with the indicators that we have received today in the State Finance Budget. But at the same time, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't understand how you can adopt laws in second reading without a comparative table, without preparation, without a committee decision and without. I think if we still vote on the same budget in the same regime, the next year, of course, for agriculture, will really be the year of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u40	Thank you. The point is that the committee said there were no warnings and submitted the document. A draft Act amending article 206 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 4066, is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for obstructing legitimate economic activity]] Andrew School is the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending article 206 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. What Is Money? What does the legislator want to do? He suggests in one article in the first paragraph that the first part should be added instead. or restrict it, add it, add it, add it to the formation funds, which according to legislation are carried out exclusively on a voluntary basis. That is, banning and criminalizing those who force the recalculation of funds on a voluntary basis. The committee has held a long time under this bill and has decided that the bill will lead to difficulties in the qualification of illegal acts and create a coalition of legal norms. Thus, actions in the form of an illegal requirement for the owner to count the funds to the listed funds under the valid Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 191, or abuse of power or official office. And the first decision of the committee was to recommend that the Supreme Council reject the bill. But later, when a serious discussion took place, we reexamined the bill and suggested that the Supreme Council be determined. Because in principle, it's a question of making it happen that there are voluntary funds, voluntary contributions, social development of a village, a city or something, and there is a voluntary fund, that is, funds and voluntary recalculation. So in principle, of course, it would be very good to listen to a report from the Cabinet of Ministers. And the reporter is Bologna Inna Hermanovna, head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. And that's my offer. Since we don't know Kabmin's position, maybe Kabmin's already turned down this bill, maybe he doesn't need it, maybe they just don't think it's worth it. So I would recommend that we postpone consideration of this bill at least, because, for example, in our committee like this, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, if there is no representative of Kabmin, as defined by the rapporteur, we do not consider this bill. So I would suggest a similar formula in this situation. But everything is decided in the session room. In principle, therefore, it is up to the national deputies present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I'd like to read the conclusion of the committee to begin. The committee made that decision. Recommend that the Supreme Council approve in the second reading and generally as a law. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, when we consider the law and accept it for production, so to speak, the Supreme Council, we need a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is already the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We do not necessarily need a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, let them handle their affairs. Oh, I think we should vote, as the head of the subcommittee suggests. Motives. Please, Yuri Carmazin, and we will vote. Andrew Vasilovich, you can sit down then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You have the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, which strongly opposes such a text of the law. As a person who has devoted much of her life to the new Criminal Code, I want to tell you that this rule cannot be accepted even given that now in the Odessa area of customs, 50 grand should be counted. A bracelet from every customs office. Even as it is now, yesterday, literally every taxpayer in Lugansk has to pay 50 dollars from every entrepreneur until you pay the check until he goes to the election campaign -- nothing will happen. And even in view of that, there are complications in the qualifications of these actions. So there's competition of norms, and it's very correct to write by the Chief Legal Authority that this project has to be sent back to the first reading, I emphasize!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u44	Yes, honourable colleagues, vote on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and generally as the Law on Amendments to Article 206 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Responsibility for Obstacles to Legal Economic Activity. Registration number 4066. Please vote. [[10:47:18]] For 111 The decision is not taken. What are some suggestions? Please, Andrew School from the committee, what are the suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u45	I propose that we send this bill to the committee so that we can work it out, that is, the second one again, or reject it. I mean, I don't see any other option.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u46	Well, first sentence: I'm voting for a second reading of this project. I'd like to make a statement. Let's make up your mind, dear fellows. [[10:48:05]] For 121 The bill was rejected. A draft law on the handling of explosives, registration number 4589, has been announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. After the first reading, we prepared a bill on dealing with industrial explosives for second reading. The comments made during this period in the committee, together with the Commission, which was established with the Cabinet of Ministers, have been further elaborated. To date, given the complexity of this bill, we propose to consider it. It is the work of explosive devices. With an industrial explosion. Because to date we have about 500 of the actors involved in this work. During the year, more than 100,000 tons of explosives are used. This is all very serious, given the criminogenic situation that exists in the world today, the situations that are linked to terrorism. We propose that this bill be considered by the Committee and adopted as a law on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u48	Yeah, let's do some repairs. Second amendment, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, your arguments, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I've been paying attention to what needs to be numbered, first of all, parts, that's what we always do with the retention of standard technology, all of the legislative acts. Second, look at the title of the law. In fact, the project proposes three different laws: dealing with explosive materials -- first, amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act and amending the Ukrainian Mining Act. And it's all taken together right now and it's called the wrong thing to do with industrial explosives. Well, that doesn't fit the point of what we're doing. So, dear friends, I'd like to ask you that we, with the laws, with the names of the laws, should be properly defined. Let's do this as a change to these laws. It's going to be clear, they're organically implanted there, and it's going to be beautiful, everybody's going to understand us. Now it's not like that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u50	Dear colleague, well, the first is about construction. The construction of the law can be completely different. To date, the Legal Office, with which we have worked very closely under this law, has absolutely no claim or comment on the form of law-making. The law is written as it is written. It is normal and therefore read, so to speak, it can be used in the work, so the Committee sees no need to change the form of the law. As for the second part of your comment. To date, I regret to stress once again, unfortunately, there is no law regulating the trafficking of explosives in industry. It's really a very serious question. Today, I reiterate, more than 500 entities with explosives in industry are working. This is the use of more than 100,000 tons of explosives. Think about it! This is more or comparable to the explosives used by the Armed Forces. We could therefore go on the road: to make some changes and amendments to existing legislation, but we need a law, a regulation that regulates these things in industry. We simply underestimate the situation with these serious substances in this direction. So, Yuri Anatolevich, I strongly ask you to withdraw this amendment, because we really need a serious law to regulate these actions and to describe the mechanism of responsibility for every step in the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u51	The vote is amended as number two by Yuri Karmazin. [[10:52:28]] For-61 Correction not counted. Let's move on. Amendment three. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u52	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin. Well, the time will come, if we can't formulate the name, the preamble to this law, I suggest you put it in the paper: "This law regulates relationships that arise in the process of dealing with explosive materials, including pyrotechnic materials, and are aimed at protecting human life and health, ensuring national security, public order and environmental protection. [[You know, now in China, the explosions were purely pyrotechnic materials.]] That's the text I'm proposing. And what's more, the huge amount of these pyrotechnic materials before New Year's Eve is now focused on the markets. My people were checking in right now and they say the furs are just full. God forbid, we could have a tragedy. So I'm asking you, it expands that preamble that's on the committee. I don't understand why they took it and turned it down. I'm talking to you, agree, we have to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u53	Yuri Anatolyevich, I respectfully say that I refer to your, indeed, proposals under this law, and, indeed, they are both valid and valuable, we have studied a lot, but with regard to this amendment, I will repeat once again what it is that you understand correctly. There is EU regulation 9315, a directive of the Council of the European Commonwealth that shares the demand for industrial explosives and pyrotechnics. What you're talking about really matters to this day, and it worries everyone. And today, I know that the Ministry of the Interior is preparing a separate legislation, a separate law that is specifically related to pyrotechnics. If we only introduce this part here in the preamble, we are not going to make a very meaningful part of the law itself. The pyrotechnics require a separate law. And I agree with you here a hundred percent, I think we'll work it out with you. Once again, today, I officially state that when we looked at your amendment on the committee, we were officially informed that the Ministry of the Interior was preparing a new law specifically related to pyrotechnics. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw this amendment so that we do not violate the very essence of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u54	Amendment 3 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[10:55:14]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Let's keep going. The 12th Amendment of Boris Bespalogo. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u55	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." The 12th amendment has something to do with what Yuri Anatoliyovich said, clarifying the scope of the law. Well, look what it says. "The act of this law does not extend to the scope of dealing with explosive materials of military and special use." For a specialist, any use is special, so anyone can arbitrarily remove themselves from this sphere. So I suggested that the word "special" be deleted, but now, given Sergey Anatoliovich's answers, I think it would be better if I put the law in place. This law extends into the field of dealing with explosive materials in industry, and there would be no questions. Otherwise, by way of exclusion, it turns out, the law is about nothing. Anyone can apply it or not apply it to his own judgment, referring to the fact that his activity is special. So I support basically Matthew's position, and I would like to make it clear that it's spreading to industry or where they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u56	Thank you. Boris Jakovlevich, I fully agree with you, but I want to tell you about this article. It's just this law and this amendment that we've just stressed or written "butter oil." Twice. That is, in the Preamble itself, we have written that the Law on the Industry of Assignment and the very ideology of the law everywhere has been written that this is an industrial purpose. But in this paragraph, we have once again stressed that there should be no speculation -- what you're talking about, and not to be covered up by any other action, we have written that "the act of this law does not extend to the sphere of authority with explosive materials intended for military and special purposes." There's a very clear definition of "explosive materials of special purpose." It's an assignment that applies to the BSS, the MBI, this normative part is written out, so we've just, once again, written "butter oil." Boris Yakovlevich, I'm asking you to take off because we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u57	Yes, Boris Yakovitch is taking off his amendment. Amendment 13. Yuri Anatolyovich, microphone, please. Carmazine, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! Carmazine. I'm talking to Sergei Anatoliovich. I can't understand the logic. I suggested that part 2 be removed at all, where it does not extend to the scope of dealing with explosive materials for military and special use, is motivated by the fact that when we delete, then, because the law should regulate the relationship that arises in the process of dealing with explosive materials in all areas of dealing with explosive materials. Maybe it's industrial materials, but they're in the military, or the B.S.U., or they're in the IMF. Do you understand my point? So it's going to expand the scope of application and it's going to be aimed at ensuring security in the state, not the other way around. So I ask the questions, say delete the people, look, it's better. It's not butter, butter. On the contrary, you narrow down the scope of the Law only by indicating that it is in the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u59	Yuri Anatolyevich, I repeat: we are indeed narrowing down the form of the Act in order to: first, clearly distinguish the mechanism of work with explosives. We've set a limit, we're talking about a law that works in industry. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is preparing a law relating to pyrotechnics. With regard to the military, there must be a separate special law, so today we are the first to go on this path. This is the first Act to be passed in the Hall. The next two laws must be again, I stress, special. So that we don't do the Law here for everyone and in all directions, because it's going to be very heavy, unreadable, the rules will be double and it's going to be very hard to regulate. That's why we went that way. Once again, we have gone beyond that, there is the EU-9315 normative declaration, which has been adopted and has clearly distinguished these functions in the world. To fight terrorism in the world and keep a clear record in every direction, they went along this division, Yuri Yakovlevich. I understand you perfectly, but let's work on other laws, I think your thoughts are perfectly right, we will support them, but in other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u60	The vote is amended by Yuri Anatolyevich, so let's move on to the amendments. Boris Unburned, the 19th amendment was rejected, you don't insist, do you? There's still Yuri Anatoliovich here, and we have to agree with him. The 29th Amendment, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u61	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u62	He insists. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Sergey Anatolyovich. I'm asking the question that article 5 should add a new part of this three-point a, b, in: (a) Order of the requirements for the submission of documents for obtaining licences for the installation and operation of stationary and moving points for the production of explosive materials and for obtaining licences; (b) Orders and deadlines for the submission of documents for the issuance of licences for the development of imports into Ukraine and for the conversion of explosive materials, equipment for their manufacture of machinery and equipment. (c) the order of requirements and deadlines for the conduct of mandatory national environmental and sanitary epidemiological expertise, explosive materials and their testing. This will only improve us and then simplify the practical application of the law. No instructions, no regulations, no orders. Everything is going to be provided here if we add this extra part.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u64	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, we have indeed thought about this amendment for a long time, consulted and invited professionals from Jur. Management. What's the point? And we, so to speak, have really had our disputes on the committee on this amendment of yours. The issue is that the licence is issued for production. And all you're saying is that all of this is taken into account in the terms of licensing, all of these rules, they're written down. This is the subject of a completely different law. And the licensing law clearly defines and identifies all these rules. That is, we are thus dragging part of the law into this legislation and turning this law into an instruction, Yuri Anatolyevich. That is why we have long argued, so we have come to a conclusion, the Committee has decided to reject this law so that it does not become a mere law. Although they are included in another law. I stress once again, you're actually right. It could have been written here that it was taken into account by content, but in another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u65	Are you insisting on Yuri Anatolyovich? Don't insist. Let's keep up the good work. Boris Bespallium, 34th. Are you insisting on Boris Yakovitch? No, it's not. 37th, Boris Yakovitch insist? Boris Yakovitch insists. 37th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u66	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I think this is about a mistake that needs to be corrected. I quote article 19 of the Constitution. State authorities are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws. I emphasize, only the Constitution and the laws. And article three of this Law states that specially authorized executive authorities act in accordance with their legal mandates. Meanwhile, in article seven, which refers to the authorization of a serious body such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, these powers are expanding. And my 37th amendment refers to such a standard that it can have, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, other functions that are established not by law, but by legislation. I had the privilege of reporting the difference in this room today. It turns out that the Ministry of Internal Affairs can take on additional powers for itself. This is contrary to the Constitution, article three, this is a technical amendment. And I'm asking her to consider it and put it for him, as for everyone else, just like the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u67	Boris Yakovlevich, you know we've talked to you about this a lot and we've argued a lot. In fact, I just want to say to you that this law, and the mechanism for dealing with explosives, uses, in addition to the laws, a number of instructions approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, yards of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, in addition to the decrees adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why we wrote here -- laws and regulations. That's what this is about. Only to avoid listing the entire list of documents to be used. In any case, I agree with you very much. The previous law we talked about, yes, you're right. But this is about, once again, the instructions adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, because both transportation and preservation, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u68	Please, just like 41 corrections right now, they're actually authentic. Boris Yakovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Sergey Anatolyovich and I really discussed the legal aspects where the term "law," where "legislature," where "instruction" is, because for those who apply the law in fact, in practice, it's very important. And on those issues, and this is 41st, 65th amendment, I've agreed with Sergei Anatoliovich and I'm taking them down, where the normative basis is already being expanded to implement the law. But the 37th amendment doesn't apply to that. It refers to a very different subject. It refers to a list of the Ministry of Internal Affairs' powers and only that. So, the Ministry of Internal Affairs itself, they are determined only by laws and nothing else. And the technique is already in place, and I agree with him there. That's why I'm taking the rest of the amendments, and I insist on the 37th, because the mandate of the Constitution is to be determined only by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u70	Vladimir Mihajlovich, Boris Jakovlevich, I have this proposal. Let's take this case, if you trust me, the Legal Authority and I will accept this option. And if we say so in fact, you and I will settle the matter, and then the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, if there's no objection, the 37th and 41st amendments will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u72	41st doesn't have any questions. We've got 41 in a new edition, he's taking pictures. It's only 37.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u73	Got it? Then the 37th amendment is done according to the legal department and we find a technical solution here. It's a deal, isn't it? Let's keep up the good work. 47th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. 47th and 48th, if you please, Yuri Anatolyevich, argue two amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Sergey Anatoliyovich, I am asking the question of making a new edition, a different edition of part one of article 9 of this content. "The production of explosive materials is carried out at specialized enterprises and at stationary and moving points on the basis of licences which according to legislation appears to be issued by the central authorities of the executive branch, whose sphere of competence is to deal with explosive materials." So far it's written: it's issued to the central authorities of the executive branch on the issue of labour protection and mining. So the ability and security services of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs are narrowed down. And these are the organs that have to control it. So if I write it that way, so let's say, as I'm asking the question, it's more universal, it's really going to protect the interests of all citizens. If so, it narrows down and still needs to be involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u75	Thank you, Yuri Anatolevich. The thing is, your amendment, based on your amendment, we practically taught it, it says "refused" here, it's not quite right, we went in terms of content. We took it as a base and wrote this paragraph of article 10 as it is now written. But the point is that we wrote the wording together with the legal office, and it was their proposal to make us, well. To get out of this casework, we wrote exactly as it says here that "they conduct explosive works based on licenses issued by the executive authority designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the law on licensing certain types of economic activity." I mean, we're talking about the same thing, but it was the Legal Office's proposal, so we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u76	Yuri Anatolyevich, you insist. No, you don't. Then the 48th amendment is yours. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin. I think that after Matvienkov's 48th amendment, he'll agree that we have to add it because it's about how to arrange and operate stationary moving points from production and beyond the text, put it in the text: the order of requirements and deadlines for the submission of documents to obtain licences for the installation and operation of stationary and moving points from the production of explosive materials and the acquisition of licences, is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I mean, I'm talking about what is an organ, the highest executive authority that can quickly accept it. If this is not recorded, it is again the mining units, the labor units that will issue their instructions, but which will be inconsistent with the bodies that we are talking about. That is, if we have taken my previous amendment as a basic one, we must write it down and establish this responsibility for the government. I think it's absolutely right, Sergey Anatolyevich. I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u78	Yuri Anatolyevich, me. The logic of the reasoning is, but the point is that this amendment, the one we're talking about, is, please, the 29th amendment, your amendment, it's completely congruent to her. And we're saying that the license you're talking about doesn't exist today, it just doesn't exist. This is listed under the terms of the basic licence. And when we talked about the issue of the basic license, that's where we've already written it all out. So, I think we're what you're talking about right now, we're in your 29th grade, and that's how we got out of the 29th grade, we've all learned that, Yuri Anatolyevich. We're simply expanding it to the level of instruction, so to speak. That's not what I'd like to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u79	Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? No, it's not. Please, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u80	49th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u81	Forty - nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u82	It's a silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u83	The silencer does not insist. Dear colleagues, are the rest of the national MPs still insisting on their amendments? Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u84	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin. Fifty-second amendment. I'm proposing a different edition of the first article of the 10th. "Produced, imported into Ukraine and converted explosive materials, equipment for their manufacture, mechanical equipment, explosive devices and equipment are subject to mandatory environmental and sanitary expertise, testing and certification." It's about what's being imported into Ukraine, and we're adding, there's no right now, there's no hygienic expertise. All of a sudden, it's polluted by a nuclear holocaust in some territory and so forth? Not only in the world, we have trials elsewhere. So this has to be written down for the security of the state, so that no mess can get into Ukraine. This is the purpose of this amendment, Sergey Anatolyevich. I don't understand why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u85	Yuri Anatolyevich, well, here again, I'm just maybe not quite right, maybe it's wrong to write that she's "refused." We taught her in a sense. It's just that we've written it a little bit more concisely. Here's what we wrote: "Ingredients of mandatory trials are state environmental expertise in the documentation of the introduction and use of explosives and state-owned epidemiological expertise in explosive materials that are carried out in accordance with legislation." I mean, you're saying, in principle, we've all regretted it and studied it. Yuri Anatolyevich, that's where we studied your amendment. It's just that it says "refused" here, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u86	Do Not Urge Please, 54th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, here's the question. Part 2 in article 10. The new part I propose is to add, "The procedure for conducting the tests is determined by the specialized central authorities of the executive branch, whose sphere of competence, according to their competence, relates to the handling of explosive materials." The language says that the test needs to be fenced, and the safety and security needs to be seriously hampered by the movement of transport. Well, you know what the mass of organs has to do here. And as I've written down, that's absolutely right, it's going to fit the practical application. The thing is, I've been wondering how it's done in practice, and I've seen these explosions happen since I was a kid, and so on. If we don't write it, there's going to be some kind of self-activity. It needs to be written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u88	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, I. You're actually right, I stress once again. Open page 13. It's just that we technically wrote that it's out of hand. Open page 13. I read in article 10, last paragraph, the last few lines. "The manner in which trials are conducted shall be determined by a special authority authorized by the central authority of the executive branch on the issue of labour protection and State mining supervision." So we moved it. We threw her out here, but we basically moved the part to where I told you. I mean, we've actually complemented it. Read it, read it!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u89	Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on voting the amendment? Amendment 54 of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:14:55]] For-54 The offer is not supported. Let's move on. 58 revisions. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. I'm very sorry that Sergey Anatolyovich didn't get me right now. This was not just about the body that oversees the protection of the work. This is complex, and the police cover up and allow the movement to be shut down and so on. That's why the question was why I put it in a set: the central organs, not one organ. There is no such authority, unfortunately. So it will be, you will see that it will not be done. At the end of Amendment 58. I just want you to understand the logic. I read carefully what was done. 58 revisions. Part three, I suggest in a different edition: "An integral part of the mandatory trials is the state environmental expertise of the documentation for the introduction and use of explosives and the state health-epidemiological expertise of explosive materials carried out in accordance with legislation." That's how you write it. It will be shorter, shorter, and better.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u91	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, you know, there are purely technical issues here, to be honest. Here I ask you to open the fourteenth page: "Ingredients of the mandatory trials are the state environmental expertise of the documentation for the implementation and use of explosive and state-owned epidemiological expertise in explosive materials that are carried out according to the legislation." That's what you said to each other. We've studied it in place, but we've moved it to another option, it's purely technical. I'm sorry, they said, "refused." We need to talk to you just once. Yeah, she's counted as a victim, but she's elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u92	Corrections to voting shall be made. It's coming off, isn't it? Counted. Let's move on then. Boris Jakovitch, 65th Amendment. No, it's not. The rest is taken into account. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u93	First of all, I would like to express my great gratitude to all those who have worked on this bill, and to Karmazin Yuri Anatolevich, and to Bespaly Boris Yakovlevich, and to the Cabinet of Ministers, and I will ask him to adopt it, on second reading and in general, as a law, because it is indeed a very important document for industry. The amount of explosives that the industry is dealing with today should be under State control and should be clearly regulated by the law, not by some instructions from enterprises, depending on where they write, where they form and how they wish to store such serious things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u94	Yes. May I have your attention, Your Honor, on the vote of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, as the Act, the Draft Law on the Treatment of Explosive Materials, Registration No. 4589, please vote. [[11:18:32]] For 338 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on responsibility for computer crimes is being announced for consideration. Mr. Vladimir Pavlovich, Head of the Committee’s Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u95	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194 constituency, Hmelničina, Party of People's Power, faction of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we had to adopt this Law a long time ago because today this situation has arisen: the development and distribution of modern computing techniques have led to the emergence of new types of crime in the field of high technology, which is becoming more and more organized and transnational. Any owner or user of a computer may become potential victims. Expansion of Internet use, with no administrative and territorial boundaries in electronic space and almost uncontrollable information, increases the social risk of computer crime. The bill prepared by the Committee for second reading fully takes international standards into account in the area of countering computer crime, responding to the need for legal enforcement of the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies in this area. The adoption of this law will allow Ukraine’s criminal legislation to be brought into line with international standards on combating computer crime and the provisions of the Convention on Cybercrime signed by Ukraine and will allow law enforcement authorities to respond more effectively to criminal attacks against the law-protected rights, freedoms and interests of individual citizens, as well as legal persons, and throughout the country. The table of amendments to the second reading includes all your suggestions, honourable colleagues, including Moses, Oneichka, Bandurka, Chelombetka, others, which are largely considered entirely. [[30 amendments only]] The committee therefore unanimously proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Your Honor, this bill is also fully supported by the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council Secretariat. Therefore, we ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, since the proposals and amendments made by the people's deputies are fully accounted for, we have every reason to put the vote to the vote, but here is the motive for the proposal. [[Now, one minute.]] Mikhailo Rodionov, please, for reasons, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u97	Commie faction, Rodionov. I have a comment on this bill, the draft law. I gave the order, and I do not think it should be adopted as a whole. And that's why. I'm only quoting one article, this is article 363-1. She says, "Article 361-3 sets the standard for liability, quote "for deliberate mass distribution of electrical communications" and so on. In fact, it's an attempt, but it's not defined what mass message distribution is. I mean, this is the same article that we're giving the justice authorities the ability to interpret either, so to speak, with political motives. I would like to recall one famous expression by a famous man, Alexander Vasilevich Suvorov, who said: "It is better to justify ten guilty than to condemn."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u98	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this includes mass distribution, it's on the Internet. And here in this law it's written, I don't understand. If information is distributed on the Internet, it is widely distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We'll come to an agreement. The point is, if there were any amendments, and they weren't included, we could vote on those amendments. And in this case, if the law doesn't pass in general, then we'll go back to your proposal, Mikhail Kuzmich. Now, if you'll have your attention, dear colleagues. What? Carmazine with motive, please. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter. Here many of my amendments are included, part included in part. I don't want to interfere with the adoption of the law, it has to be adopted. But one of the clarifications given by both the Chief Legal Authority and, in order for me not to take it, there is also my clarification of that. To Article 361 pr. You have to distribute what is significant damage, the effect of the footnote to article 361-363, you have to write 363 with a footnote. And that's all, Volodymyr Pavlovich. And then the observations of the Legal Authority will be taken into account, and what is the pity, that it's spreading to this one. Because this is a new article, and it probably came out technically. So I ask you to take it all into account right now by the text to go through the transcript, and to vote in favour of the law as a whole. There will be no harm in this adoption of the law, on the contrary. And we have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u101	Vladimir Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u102	I thank Yuri Carmazin and I fully agree. It's technically simple. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask that he be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u103	Thank you. There's no other thought, is there? There is a motion for a second reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for computer crimes]] Registration number 3039. Please vote. [[11:26:05]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Well, then we have to vote to get back to it. "Our Ukraine" - 35, "Ukrainian Regions" - 21, Communists - 51, SDPU - 10, National Agrarian - 20, SPO - 1, "One Ukraine" - 16, Tymoshenko - 0, "Union" - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, "Centre" - 3, "True Ukraine" - 7, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 8 non-fractional - 25. Who's in charge of going back to the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine? [[You said you didn't make it.]] [[on responsibility for computer crimes]] Registration number 3039. Please vote. Dear colleagues, then you'll say they haven't made it. The vote is coming. [[11:27:11]] For 267 We're back to the hearing. Is the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine being put to the vote again? [[on responsibility for computer crimes]] Registration number 3039. Please vote. [[11:27:46]] For 285 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft law amending the Waste Act of Ukraine, registration number 5619, is being announced for consideration. [[about metal scrap metal]] Reporter of Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u104	Matvinkov, 55th District. Dear colleagues! In due course, we have done a very large work related to the scrap metal law. And in order to give us two moments of working with scrap metal and the waste law, we have made some changes, so to speak. When we made these changes to the waste law, well, it was purely technical there. We missed the comma, let's say so. We have adopted this law in first reading, once again agreed with the Legal Office, so to speak, we have put this amendment in a comma so that there is no double interpretation, add the word “slags and scars”, and so we have determined, finally, that the waste law is not regulated by scrap metal or scrap metal waste used for further metallurgical processing. Therefore, there is a proposal, no comments have been received on the bill, we have considered it on the Committee, there is a proposal to adopt it on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u105	Yeah, no warning? None. May I have your attention, Your Honor? There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Waste Act, registration number 5619. [[about metal scrap metal]] Please vote. [[11:29:39]] For 312 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider Bill 3624. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of matters of responsibility. The committee requests that consideration be postponed in view of the new circumstances that need to be taken into account in connection with the adoption of other laws. Is there no objection? Then we support the committee's proposal, we postpone consideration of this bill. A draft Law on Supplements to Ukraine’s Law on a General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, 4600, is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, in October we adopted three bills, three alternatives, three draft amendments to the Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance, sponsored by the Turkish National Deputies, Kulczynski, and Cibenko. [[From the "Our Ukraine" faction.]] When we were preparing the document for the second reading, we took it up to one comparative table. All the comments that have been made are taken into account. And your view is on the adoption of a change to the National Pension Insurance Act as part of the minimum pension. The fact is that in the summer, in the fall, many resented the fact that the issue of living to the minimum minimum wage was decided by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, the committee today, when you consider such a document, solves a number of problems. First of all, we are implementing the requirement of the Constitution to the current legislation of Ukraine that the pension, especially for people for whom it is the only source of existence, should be at a minimum of living. Secondly, we are solving a problem that foresees that the size of the pension insurance should be regulated only by the laws of Ukraine and nothing else. And so the committee asks the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this document. There are two comments, namely, two amendments that have not been taken into account. But these amendments -- mine as a national deputy and Ivan Alexanderovich Gerasimov -- they apply to the deadline for the implementation of this law. Most committee members tended to see this law in effect from the moment it was adopted and made public, and the other two options were mid-2005 and the first January 2006. The main text is that this law takes effect from the moment of publication, from the time of publication. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u107	Yes, Your Honor, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote! The proposal for a second-reading adoption committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Draft Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory State Pension Insurance is put to the vote. Registration number 4600. Please vote. [[11:33:38]] For 310 The law is passed. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on aid to disabled members of families of deceased military personnel]] Registration number 5761. The rapporteur is the head of the committee, Cibenko Petr Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the agenda is that this document will be reported by Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, but he's sick, so I'm doing this mission under the commission of the committee. This is about 2 changes to this law. One of them is essentially technological, technical, so to speak, because, let's say, the law on special merit pensions before Ukraine provided for the right of the Secretary of State, and this position no longer exists, we changed to an appropriate similar position, which is today. And one that's meaningful. This is about military personnel, in particular members of their families, who have the right to receive a certain amount of compensation under the law on pensions for special merit before Ukraine in the event of the death of a military officer in the course of his duties and his death reward. The committee supported the bill and asked the Ukrainian National Deputies to support it in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, since all the proposals made in this draft law are taken into account to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Service before Ukraine, registration number 5761. [[on aid to disabled members of families of deceased military personnel]] Please vote. [[11:35:45.]] For 301 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! A draft decree on the annulment of the decision on the basis of the draft Law on certain matters of payment to the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance is being announced for consideration. Reporter Sergey Teryohin. Sergey Anatolyovich. And who's from the committee? Is there a committee head? What shall we do, fellow believers? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! I can give you information about this decision. It's about that. That in February 2003, a draft Law was adopted in the first reading on certain matters of payment to the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, since this was followed by the adoption of the Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" and this law regulates these problems, the Committee requests that this order be supported by the removal from consideration of this law, since these problems are already regulated by the Law "On Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! We need to make a simple technical decision as to how much this problem is already regulated by law, so that we do not have another bill against the law that has been passed. Therefore, the proposal of a committee in the form of a draft Decision to repeal the decision to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law on certain matters of payment of the congregation to compulsory state pension insurance, registration number 2343/P2. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:37:51]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Law, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to suspend the privatization of Ukrainian oil-processing enterprises, registration number 6083, report by Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, Head of the State Property Fund. to prepare Demiochin from the Committee. Yes, please, Mikhailo Vasilovich, give us some information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u112	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the President of Ukraine has been returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a re-examination of Ukraine's law to suspend the privatization of Ukraine's oil industry. To your attention, I present the President's proposals for this Act, passed on November 5th by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, the law establishes a moratorium on the privatization of oil-processing enterprises prior to the adoption of a new State privatization programme and the Ukrainian Law on the peculiarities of privatization of Ukrainian oil-processing enterprises. It is predicted that the law has a temporary nature to suspend privatization, but to unlock the moratorium on the privatization of oil-processing enterprises, the necessary condition is also the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on peculiarities to privatise Ukrainian oil-processing enterprises. By this time, however, the draft Law regulating the privatisation of enterprises for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine had not yet come. The slow privatisation of enterprises for an indefinite period will significantly limit the possibility of involving investment in the development of oil-processing enterprises and make it necessary to spend more on the state budget for the development of such enterprises. It should also be borne in mind that the Law identifies the transfer to the State of the right shareholdings of holdings from the privatization of state property. That is, the State's incorporation into the statutory funds of the holdings of shares held by the State, according to the project, is defined as one way of privatizing. However, it should be noted that the privatization routes are defined by article 146 of the master code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property. And none of these legislations determines how a state is privatized, such as the introduction of statutory funds for companies, due to the State of shares. Before that, article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on the Privatisation of State Property does not define the transfer as a State contribution to statutory funds of state-owned companies of the economy to State-owned shares of oil-processing enterprises by way of privatization. In addition, the law limits the Ukrainian Constitution’s mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since the decision on the transfer of shares of enterprises to households is linked to the administration of public property in accordance with article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The adoption of this law will also have a negative impact on the structural restructuring of the sector and will make it difficult for the government to create powerful state structures. Taking into account, I propose to support the President of Ukraine's proposals to the Ukrainian Law on the Stopping of Privatization of Ukrainian Petroleum Industries and to decide on its rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. The Committee considered the President's proposal for the bill. In his proposals, the President proposed rejecting the law. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept the proposals. But I would like to inform you that since the meeting of our committee, we have come to have a decision by the Special Monitoring Commission on matters of privatization to this bill. By its decision, the Commission recommends that the bill be reconsidered and that the President's proposals be taken into account in part. I ask Vladimir Mihajlovich to give the floor to the head of the commission and ask for the support of the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u115	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk is the head of the special commission on privatization. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u116	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, in Ukraine of the six factories, we have two factories where parts of state property are present. It's a Galicina plant, 25 percent and a Cremenchuck oil refinery. In view of the fact that these enterprises are dominant and, as it were, regulatory before the privatisation programme was adopted today, allowing the operation of our agro-industrial complex to be ensured, and is a mechanism for regulating the price of fuel-oil products. And companies like the Cremenchuck oil refinery work with the government on a deal with the government, and implement their oil materials by the 1970s for a ton of fuel-oil materials for the village. This is the mechanism of influence on the monopoly today, which often occurs at a time when the price of fuel oil is rising and we can't influence it. So this is actually a state mechanism. To this end, a draft law on the suspension of the privatization of the oil sector was adopted before the adoption of an appropriate privatization programme. This is the mechanism for the protection of the state that can perform its function, based on what is represented at the meetings of these shareholders. But there is another threat. According to article 85 of the Civil Code and the Code of Masters, the household company is owned by its founders and participants as a contribution to the agricultural activity. And article 115 of the Civil Code states that a civil society is the owner of property transferred to it by members of the Society as a contribution to the statutory fund, that is, the invested capital. Just so there's nothing we can't do, so it doesn't matter that the enterprise decides to make a mortgage, get a loan, and then we don't need a special control commission or a decision from the Supreme Council, this enterprise will go into private hands and dictate the price of fuel-oil materials. [[and today, these shares of NAC's state property are transferred to Naftogazu Ukraine, which is partly with private capital.]] So in order to preserve these businesses and not allow privatization in the process of legislation, we propose to complete the article of the first edition of this article and to present it in such a way as to continue the text that says: temporarily before the adoption of the State Privatisation Programme and the Ukrainian Law on the peculiarities of privatization of oil-processing enterprises, to suspend privatization, by the State to introduce the statutory funds of households.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u117	Allow me to finish my opinion, please. Turn on the microphone. Please, Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u118	All forms, I quote: " funds, farm societies of all forms of ownership, shares of Ukrainian oil-processing companies that are state-owned." And we're adding the words "and also handing them over as collateral" so that you and I can be assured that the particles that are today are Galicina's IPF -- 25 percent and 43 percent in the Cremencucci oil refinery were state-owned, and the state could influence the decision-making process in this enterprise and influence the price policy in the state and Ukraine in particular. That's what I'm asking you to support. This takes 226 votes. And believe me, then we can really be responsible with you for what's happening today at the fuel-oil, oil-oil trade in Ukraine, and we're not going to have the spills that we've had with gasoline especially during the spring-field work period, the soybeans, and in general, when this method is used against Ukraine. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u119	Thank you, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, given the situation that the committee actually supported the vote of the Special Supervisory Commission, will you not deny how we will put to the vote in a new edition, taking into account the proposal proposed by the head of the Special Supervisory Board? No objections? FROM THE PLACE. I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u120	Therefore, the vote on the approval of the Ukrainian Law in a new edition, taking into account the proposal just made by Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, the head of the special review committee. Please vote. Registration number 6083. [[11:48:03]] For 316 Decision taken. Yes, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for Repayment of Taxpayers' Liabilities to Budgets and State Purpose Funds, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 14.07.2004, registration number 5023. Yes, Dr. Sergey Ivanovich, deputy head of the State Tax Administration. Prepare Gorbachev. Not Mikhail Sergiyovich, but Viktor Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, the Ukrainian Act of 22 June 2004 amending the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Payment of Payments to Budgets. I would like to point out that the specificity of this law is that taxpayers pay taxes as they were. By direct means, they have an obligation to appeal to the court to resolve these issues. But the aspect of the law that is in force today is that the indirect methods used by the tax authorities in carrying out documentary checks must be brought to justice. But there is one feature: A tax payer can himself, by recognizing the corresponding adjustments, pay the sum of the proper payments to the budget. This limits the introduction of amendments to this law, for this law, which is passed by a national MP, says that all donations by indirect means must be brought to court in order to establish them, and only after that can they be paid to the budget. What's he talking about? Which, first of all, will increase the number of judges' work even when the payer agrees with the corresponding sums of the pre-paid payments, which is why the government's proposal is not to support the bill and to leave it in the format in which it works today. And please support the data. Not to support the bill, but to support the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u122	Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich, member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, distinguished President. We are considering Law 5023, overcoming the veto of the President. What's the point of these amendments, two, by the number of small but very important ones? What is the point of indirect methods? Indirect methods are methods of paying taxes that are not part of the tax structure that we pay, the amount of those taxes. These are indirect methods, there are taxes that approximate tax deductions in the verification. Let's say that the tax structure comes into any enterprise -- at any cost, at the expense of electricity -- let's say that if there's more electricity, that means more traffic in goods, that means more taxes. That is to say, it can place tax on the company's budget. I mean, two amendments. The first amendment concerns the methodology. The methodology determines who and how much to test these enterprises. I believe that the Committee has supported us, and our administration that methodology is a law that must be determined only by law and by no means by a Cabinet decision. And Kabmin's ruling is basically prepared by the tax office. In fact, the tax office itself shows, without law, how much taxes to pay and who to pay. In fact, this violates the Constitution and violates the Tax System Act. The second amendment concerns: To date, in the case of indirect business methods and inspections, the tax is required in court to prove these approximate contributions to the budget of an enterprise. This applies to the first number, on 1 January 2005. Since the first issue of 2005, the tax service will charge indirect taxes to any enterprise, and the enterprise is already obliged to go to court to prove that it is not a right. I believe that if these are close methods that are not part of the tax structure, then tax-free if they want to take extra taxes that are close to them, let them prove it. This is the most important thing there is, two amendments. I ask this veto to support, committee and administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We will now vote on this law in this order. First of all, it's the President's proposal to reject the law. If we do not make a decision, then the veto committee is asked to vote. If we don't get through the veto, then I'm voting on the law in the new edition. No objections? The proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for Repayment of Taxpayers' Liabilities to Budgets and State Purpose Funds is put to the vote. Registration number 5023. [[11:53:25]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Now, if you'll excuse me! The proposal for a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on how to pay taxpayers' obligations to budgets and government trust funds. Registration number 5023. Please vote. [[11:54:04]] For 333 Decision taken. I mean, the veto is overtaken by the law of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? We need to get into the order of the day, please listen! - Project on the Legality of the decisions of the Kiev City Council on the transfer of land to Ukrainian citizens for the construction, operation and maintenance of residential buildings, farm buildings and buildings, for the construction of individual garages and for the maintenance of individual gardening on the street. High Town, 150 in the Obolon district of Kiev. The proposal to include this issue in the agenda is put to the vote. [[11:55:01]] For 201 The offer is not supported. Our Ukraine - 77, Regions - 4, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 2, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 8, SPI - 18, Block Timoshenko - 117, Union - 1, Only Ukraine - 0, Center - 5, NDP, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 4, Deminiciative - People's Government - 0, Postfaction - 9. Next document. May I have your attention, please? To be included in the agenda, please listen to the draft Act on Export Export Fees for Iron Raw Materials, registration number 6396. It's about inclusion, it's about inclusion, it's not about consideration. We need to get it into the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it off the vote, please. Matvienkov, author of the draft decision. Take down the vote. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u125	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! We strongly ask, given what is here, the question is serious. And we would like this to be the first step in getting us to work seriously on budgeting and pricing rather than working on three or four clans in Ukraine. Therefore, we ask that it be finalized and accepted, let us speak more seriously, put it to the vote, put it on the agenda and consider it next sessional week. We urge him not to vote now, but to consider it next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! Why don't we go meet the drafter who wants to work on it? Is there no objection? None. Thank you. Now, please note, we have a section entitled "To be included in the agenda of the session." There is such a bill amending the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. [[about the academic title]] It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this bill. [[Registration number 6411]] Please vote. Vote, fellows of honor! Please vote. [[11:57:30.]] For-129 Yes. To - 129. The decision is not taken, obviously not many academics, the correspondents in this session room will continue to work. Questions are not included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, this is a proposal: after a break, decide on the issue of the dismissal and appointment of judges and go to the 2005 bill on the state budget and work until the decision is taken without interruption. Is there no objection? Then there is a break of 30 minutes to 12 hours 30 minutes, and I ask you to gain strength and patience during this time for further work. In 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Is Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko there? Yes. Let us now consider the question that we have traditionally on Thursday at 12: 30 a.m. regarding the appointment and release of judges. Report to the committee's chairman, Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. For your consideration is draft Decree 6446 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one, article 128, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Choose judges on an untimely basis: - the Court of Appeal of the Czernovec Region of Chupikov Valentina Vasilovna; - Kyiv's interdisciplinary appeals court Green Natalia Ivanovna; - the local Berdjan Regional Court of the Zaporozhye district of Petjagin Vadim Vasilovich; - the local Rubižan City Court of the Luhansk Region of Mejakinchenko Natalia Volodymyrna; - the local Shevchenkov District Court of Chernovec Kiriluk Ljubov Kostinenovna. The committee considered the nominations and, according to the Supreme Court, the Higher Qualifications Commission recommends that everyone be elected to office. Therefore, it is a request to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, when my last name was announced, I didn't see any comments. So we have every reason, let's vote, then I give you my word. I'm voting for the election of judges on an untimely basis. Bill number 6446. Please vote. Vote. The budget is the next question. Vote. [[12:35:19]] For-300 It's been decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u131	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, there is a separate draft of Decree 6446-1 on the election of Nikolainek Alexander Mikhailovich as judge of the local Corobian District Court of the Chernig region. Why is it separate? Because once, more than a year ago, we were looking at Alexander Mikhailovich's candidacy as judge of the Corobian District Court. And then he didn't get the required number of votes. I think maybe the People's Deputy Petrov, I see he has a point, and then I'll give my vision of the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u133	Yes, Oleg Petrov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I regret to say that we are again discussing the election of the judge of the Corbeau District Court of Nikolainka Alexander Mikhailovich. Why is it so sad? Because on July 9, 2003, Mr. Nikolayenko received 53 votes during his first consideration of his candidacy by Parliament. The Special Committee did not support this candidature on a re-examination, and Nikolayekno decided to resign voluntarily. In a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on October 2, 2003, the head of the Committee, Vasil Onopenko, reported, quoting, "Let him seek another fate in another order." And he stressed that he had already written a letter to the committee and to the President of Ukraine. Meanwhile, there are no such references in the work of Nikolayn, which was again considered by the committee yesterday. Instead, there is an explanation and an appeal to one of the members of the committee that, after a discussion with the Council of Judges, he withdrew these statements. I would like to remind you that today we are looking at a judge who has not been supported twice by Parliament and who has not been supported by a professional committee. He double-crossed Parliament. That's why I don't want us to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u135	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u136	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Let me take a closer look at this problem. To get anyone out of office, it's a permanent, clear thing. Or from work, you need the right motivation. This is provided for in the Labour Code. As for the judges, there should be an appropriate procedure for the dismissal of the judge. First of all, the types of disciplines that are involved may be a catch up or a downgrading of the qualifications class. There are grounds for violating disciplinary conduct regarding judges, and they are listed in the Law on the Status of Judges. Yesterday, the committee was really looking at this issue, and decided not to support Nikolayn's candidacy. I'm talking about my own vision. And I'd like to give you a reason right now, and then you can decide whether or not you can support this candidate. What the committee did after, in fact, Nikolainka's candidacy was presented for consideration by the Supreme Council and did not receive the appropriate number of votes. We directed our appeal, that is, to the heads of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime of Stretovic and the national deputy Petrov to the Kyiv District Qualifications Commission of Judges of the General Courts. What was established by the District Commission of Judges of the General Courts? Well, first of all, the test found that while Nikolainko was serving as a judge, a criminal complaint came before the court in July 2002 on the charge of the director of Agrolisgosp Maltsev for certain articles. What did this judge do? He was assigned to a preliminary hearing, but at this time, the prosecutor is calling it back. We set up yesterday, we were representatives of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, we were representatives: the deputy head of the Supreme Court, who said that the district attorney had the right to respond to a criminal case. He called her back. It's like he broke the judge's oath. You know, I don't see a breach of oath here when the D.A. came under criminal procedure. In March 2003, a criminal case came to trial again. In line with article 54, Ukraine sought impartiality and objectivity in the case of Nikolayenko, who appealed to the deputy head of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Jaroshenka, for the purpose of bringing the matter to another court. Apparently, he had some motive not to consider it, and another court considered it objectively, which he had made to be a substitute for the head of the Court of Appeal of Montenegro. The case was brought before the Bahmach district court. Nicolanca. The question is, What is the fault of Nikolainka? Next. July 10th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u137	Microphone, please, another episode.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u138	On July 10, 2002, the procurator of the Corroba district of Chernigiv district applied to the local court of the Corobsk district for the unlawful authorization of the head of the Coroba District Council for the protection of forest areas and the implementation of wood. The case was handled by the judge of the district of Zabotny, who, by his decision, refused the prosecutor’s satisfaction with the application. Later, the ruling of the judge under his head was annulled by the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv region. I think there's a difference between judges: What's Nikolainka's point? It is said that Nikolainko could have influenced the Golden One. But if this could have happened, there is no need for a judge to recommend the Muggle. More recently, we recommended to the Court of Appeal. That's why I don't see any reason. And here's the thing: who came to the conclusion of a qualified commission. The submission of the head of the Committee of Stretovic, Petrova, on the inadequacy of the judge of the local court of the Corbeau District Court of Chernigiv County, to be left unsatisfying. Disciplinary conduct regarding Nikolainka is closed. I'll tell you what, the qualified commission, the Supreme Court High Qualifying Commission, the Council of Judges, the Chief Justice, support this candidature. If we're going to do what someone said and not operate on legal facts, I think it's going to be a case against a judge. I don't know the motivation, but I don't think it's necessary or right in this room to do that with the judges. And so even though the committee, and people work there, emotionally decided not to recommend, I think this judge deserves support. [[This is my personal position.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! Because that's what we came up with. ambiguous thoughts, there is a need for three minutes to exchange vision. Please sign in. Three minutes. Boris Bespali. Then Kuharchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u140	Boris Bespali. Please pass the word to Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u141	Vladimir Chernik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u142	Thank you. I don't have anything specifically against this judge, I just don't know, I'm not in the material, but in general, I don't think it's okay. The judicial system is known to be corrupt. It is known that it is often a crime, rather than a judicial act, that judges break an oath. I don't know if they're responsible. Well, rare cases, and they were often the wrong way. The committee usually recommends everyone. I mean, how can we track the violation of an oath by judges and punish them for doing more just work, being on the side of the law and working more effectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u143	I am very grateful for that question. You, I think, are intelligent, literate and well-versed. You can't take responsibility for everyone. Each individual must bear specific responsibility for breaking an oath in this case. How can you set things straight? So I would like to say, dear colleagues, for all of you, because you are very often asking me and the committee to initiate a question of breach of disciplinary responsibility for judges. So, notice article 97 of the Sudokustre Act, which states that the right to initiate the disciplinary responsibility of a particular judge, if there are facts, people refer to you, first of all, to the national deputies; secondly, the Human Rights Commissioner, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the High Court of Justice to the relevant judges, the Heads of relevant councils and the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, to initiate the question of responsibility. So if he were to go to Petrov in this case, he could initiate the question of disciplinary responsibility before the district commission. The county commission, what I told you, Kyivsky, looked at it and said: there is absolutely no reason to be held accountable, even for catching up. We are today asking questions and deciding the fate of the judge and saying, "You don't work as a judge." What are the reasons? As a former judge, as a lawyer, I see no legal basis for such a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u144	Chef, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Sirenk, Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u146	Sirenko Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! I have the impression that some MPs are trying to use the Supreme Council as a tool for dealing with judges. This is the use of the Supreme Council as a tool for judging judges, and it's innocuous, and it's illegal, and it's unfair, and it's just not beautiful. Yesterday, when we considered the matter on the committee, we concluded that there was no legal body that would not deal with the issue, and all the legal bodies: both the Council of Judges, and the qualified commissions, and the Supreme Council of Justice, and the Supreme Court found it necessary to recommend Nicolainka as a judge. Some MPs said that we are making a political decision. What is such a policy? In the face of injustice and illegality?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u148	Yes. Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u149	I mean, Your Honor, this judge has nothing to do with our Nikolainko. But what I want to say is that I really know what a bad judge is, what I've suffered a little bit, but now I want to pass on the word to Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u150	Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that I was born in this area and I live there in the Gorovsky region and I was interested in this judge, his moral qualities. His moral qualities are responsible for being a judge today, he wants to work, he's very concerned and concerned about his condition today, so considering his youth and that he doesn't deserve that attitude, I'm asking you to support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u152	Yes, please, First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Court, Philipchuk, please. Come to the microphone, explain the situation, the position of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u153	The honourable national deputies, the claims that were presented and presented to Judge Nikolaynko, were not subject to a single review of the Supreme Court. There is no reason to believe that he is unprofessional or moral enough to carry out this position in the Supreme Court. Moreover, the authorities of judicial self - government have repeatedly examined these complaints and claims, again of which there is no reason to believe that he is unworthy to take office. Today, this court has created such a situation that for a year, people are forced to travel 100 - 120 km [100 - 120 km] to neighboring areas because they have no judges. There are two vacant positions and a judge who has been without authority for over a year. We urge you to support this candidature and remove the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u154	Yes, please, the position of the Committee, well, we're about to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u155	I said that the committee did not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect Nikolainka as a judge on an untimely basis, but I said another position, and she also spoke in this room. Not recommended
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u156	Replica, about what? The last name was not called the honorary national MPs. Let's vote. It's the committee's proposal for a vote, this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine Supreme Decree for the election of a judge, registration number 6446-1. Select Nikolainka Alexandr Mihajlovich to serve as judge of the local Corbeau District Court of the Chernigiv region. Please vote. [[12:50:54]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Please, let's move on. The factions, please. The factions. "Our Ukraine" -6; "Regions of Ukraine" -51; Communists -58; SDPU -0; National Agrarian Party -19; SPO -8; 8; "Only Ukraine" -9; Timoshenko -4; "Union" -2; "Deminiciates" -9; "Centre" -2; "Trubic Ukraine" -1; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -0; non-fractional -9. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, this is the draft Supreme Council Order 6447 on the discharge of judges: - Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of the Valetina Ivanovna; - Judges of the Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye District of Drozdov Sergey Alexiyovich, Kosenko Albin Yakovna; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnicki District of Mickoslav Fedorovich. You've got it. in relation to resignation, and according to your own desire. - Ivanite Stephen Mikhailovich, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Chernivecki region, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal Smyrnov Viktor Grigorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Schatsky District Court of Volinsk, Krivenchuk Volodymyr Ivanovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents the continuation of duties. Judge Voroshilovsky of the district court of Donetsk Musijenko Alexander Prokopovich in connection with the application for resignation. Judge Orikhiv District Court of Zaporozhye District, Moseiko Nadia Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Communist District Court of Zaporozhye Strocilov Larissa Seminyuynown in connection with the application for exemption at your own request. Judge of the Kirov District Court of Kirovgrad Jaroshenko Volodymyr Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Starobyll district court of the Luhansk district of Zaycevo Leonida Mikolaiovich in connection with the application for resignation. Judge Krukovsky District Court of Kremenchuk Poltava District of Skrada Alexandr Mikolaiovich, a statement of resignation. Judge of the Skadovian District Court of the Zabrzeski district of Anatolia Nikiforovich, a statement of resignation. The judge of the Polonsky District Court of the Hmelnick district of Babchuk Vasil Vasilovich also relates to the application for resignation. Judge of the Kitzman District Court of the Chernieweck District, Alexyuk Vasil Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Lenin District Court of Sevastopol, Omelczuk Tetjana Ivanovna, in connection with the conclusion of the term for which she was elected. Judge of the Commercial Court of the Donetsk district of Jurok Vladimir Fedorovich in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the local military court of Ivano-Frankivsky’s Garrison, Plashka Valentin Porfirovič, in connection with the application for a state of health, which prevents the continuation of duties. The grounds for the dismissal of judges were discussed both by the Higher Council of Justice and by us on the Committee, and there was no evidence that there was any pressure or coercion on anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u158	Yes, Phydenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u159	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vasil Vasilovich, I listened and was very surprised at the motives for the dismissal of Judge Shaksky of the Wallinsky District Court. Areas. There I was recently released because of my activities, for two years I was seeking release, but still I was dismissed by the judge, the head of the court, for violating the judge's oath, for gross immoral conduct. And this is his best man, by the way, his second mate, the gunman. And he needs to be released and released for immoral conduct, not for his own claim. And at the end of the day, it was delayed when a large sum of dollars was transferred. And one day it went sideways, and the motivation went according to its own statement. You know, it doesn't suit us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u160	Well, the materials came to us from the High Council of Justice. If there's a reason why those you're talking about don't interfere, let's say, with a criminal case, with a logical outcome. And if there is a judgment, we are right to review our decision to release him from other motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u161	Yes, distinguished national MPs, may I have your attention? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 6447]] Please vote. [[12:56:12]] For 292 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, and the last draft of the Order - 6448 - regarding the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of Judge Vasilek Yuri Aleksandrovitch. Let me remind you a little bit about the problem. Vasilenko had committed a criminal offence against the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma. The Higher Council of Justice, at the request of a member of the High Council of Justice, dealt with the matter, ruled that Vasilenko had broken his oath and that he should be released from office for these reasons. Yesterday we discussed this issue on the committee, quite a lot of attention and the committee unanimously, I emphasize, there were no objections, decided that it was necessary to reject the application of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. We came to the conclusion that there was no violation of the oath by the judge. This was his position on this particular matter. Moreover, if, in accordance with article 31, the grounds for the disciplinary responsibility of the judges, the annulment or modification of a judicial decision does not entail the disciplinary responsibility of the judge who took part in the decision, if there has been no intentional law or incompatibilities that have resulted in substantial consequences. The committee found that there were no significant consequences, and there were no violations of the current legislation of the rudeness of Vasilek. Therefore, the committee considers it necessary to make a draft decision and reject the application of the Superior Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u163	Please sign up to discuss the matter. Three minutes, please. Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u164	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! During the discussion yesterday, we studied all the documents on the committee and concluded that the judge was acting in accordance with his understanding and the Criminal Procedure Code. That's it! According to which a judge is entitled on the basis of the Constitution of the Criminal Procedure Code to file a criminal case against any person in whose actions there are signs of crime. You and I both know that there was an attack on the national deputy Jeliaškević, which is a proven fact. Jelyashkovic claimed in this room a few years ago, and we know who was giving the order, why this matter is not being investigated. He did the right thing. I urge you today to reject the application of the High Council of Justice and thereby put a dot in this shameful story.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u165	Please, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u166	Buiko, Communist faction, Donetsk district. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, first of all, I'm asking you a question like this. Why, then, were two years delayed in resolving the issue regarding the position of a judge who showed his civic position? And the political changes are already coming to an end here. I'd like to hear a solid answer from you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u167	This question was discussed on the committee. And he must say that Vasilenko, not in agreement with the decision of the High Council of Justice, challenged this decision in due course to the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev. The district court did not satisfy his complaint. Then he appealed to the Court of Appeal in Kiev. The Court of Appeal considered, of course, that for a time the complaint did not satisfy. He then appealed to the Supreme Court of Ukraine in March of this year. And unfortunately, because of the huge workload of the Supreme Court, there has been a situation where several dozen civil cases lie and wait to be considered. The Supreme Court has not yet ruled on the matter. Therefore, members of the committee in connection with the appeal to us Vasilenko, that "put in the end the final dot in this story, nevertheless, decided to consider this issue at the session of the Supreme Council, especially since we have concluded that there is no breach of oath there. Vassilko explained that he felt that way and that he felt that way. He explained it yesterday on the committee and that, let's say there is a president, there are certain guarantees. Of course it's immunity. But the president, come on, get God, he's driving and he's doing some roadside crime. Not specifically about the last name. What can be done about this situation? The question is not simple. Moreover, even an appropriate appeal was made to the Constitutional Court, so to say that Vasilenko did so on purpose, the committee concluded that this was not the case. He was asked, to Vasilek, to other colleagues by many deputies, and he made the appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u168	Yes, Your Honor, we still have a word for Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u169	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vassili Vassiljevic, you know very well how I feel and react in this room when we are under some pressure from the people's deputies to the judges. But it's very surprising to me, knowing you as a high professional, as a lawyer with enough experience, that Judge Vasilenko has not been violated. You say that, knowing very well that your opinion and the decision of the committee yesterday was political, not legal. You are well aware that after a small judicial reform has been carried out in our country, the judge has no right to institute criminal proceedings. Even if he saw evidence of a criminal case there, he had to hand it over to the prosecutor's office or the investigation. So let's do that. You are the chair of the legal committee and let all assessments be made by judges, not political, but legal. Then we will have due respect for you and the members of your committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u170	Thank you, Your Honor, for the compliment. I just want to say, Mr. Dobkin, that I'm reporting the position of the committee and I said before that it was a unanimous position of the committee. If you want to know my separate position, please, I can say it separately. Or at the end of that question. And that's why I can't report anything else, any political here. There is no political approach. You're saying that a judge has no right to file a criminal case, that is ambiguous, because on private charges, judges do it all the time. This question is ambiguous, this question needs perhaps a constant interpretation by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u171	Thus, dear colleagues, time is running out. For reasons, Gregory Omelchenko, before the vote, please. Please, the microphone, Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u172	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. National MP Gregory Omelchenko Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Dear Vassil Vasilovich! I thank you for the position of the committee and the unanimous decision you have made. For my colleague from the faction of SDPU, I'm going to say that the committee does not make a legal decision, but rather a political decision, as does the Supreme Council. And one more thing. Judge Vasilko, I would like to shake his hand firmly on his principled position, which, following my official address, as the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, has violated a criminal case for committing serious and particularly serious crimes by the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, in particular, he is the organizer of the kidnapping of George Gongadze, which has led to serious consequences, the organizer of an assassination attempt on the life of National Deputy Alexander Jeliaškević and the commission of other serious service crimes, including useful ones. And that's why the committee's decision is true and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u173	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! I want to say this. We're still in this room and outside this room we're very carelessly using certain words. Let's respect the Constitution. It's written down: as long as there's no verdict against anyone, you can't call someone a criminal. Therefore, we need to be careful about this. And the committee still believes that our draft decision and the draft ruling are correct and recommends that the Supreme Council reject the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of Vasilnik Yuri Alexandrovich from his post.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! We've consulted here on how we should vote, so we've come to that conclusion, and I would like to point out that we should put the first ones to the vote for the release of Judge Vassilenko. If this decision does not pass, then we do not have to vote in favour of another decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u176	We don't deny it, yes, we don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u177	Therefore, the honourable national MPs are the first to vote, that is, to present a proposal to the High Council of Justice for the release of Judge Vasilek Yuri Aleksandrovitch. [[13:08:07]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it's clear here, well, what can be fixed here. Well, please, if you insist. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 34, Communists - 0, SDPU(O) - 25, People's Agrarian - 25, SPO - 0, "One Ukraine" - 6, Timoshenko Block - 0, Alliance - 1, Democratic Initiatives - 11, Center - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 7, NDP industrialists and entrepreneurs - 0, non-fractional - 8. Yes. Dear colleagues, with this question, the questions of appointment, the dismissal of judges, we have been resolved. Now, please listen, I would like to welcome the newly appointed judges into office on an untimely basis and to wish them fruitful success in their work and close ties with Parliament, let's welcome our distinguished colleagues. Yes, dear colleagues, and another announcement. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukraine’s People’s Deputy, article 4.2.2. As of 21 December 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the protocol of the National Assemblys of the People's Deputies of Ukraine have been notified of the formation of the parliamentary faction "Trudova Ukraine" and the People's Democratic Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the 4th call. The goal of the People's Democratic Party's Labour faction of the People's Democratic Party is to consolidate efforts to build a democratic, legal, social-oriented state. The signatures of 18 national deputies on this subject are. Please, the head of the Committee on Budget Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, regulatory, I'm sorry, I'm already thinking about the budget, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u178	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, we're going to violate the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by giving our consent to the activities of the Supreme Council of the Deputies faction. The deputy faction can only be considered to be the unification of the national MPs, who were elected primarily by party lists, and who were united in the respective MP factions at the beginning of a call by the Supreme Council. So it could be a parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u179	Come on, I'm gonna ask you to get this situation out of the way right now. Another regulatory committee and the secretariat of the Supreme Council's Office. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u180	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's Block. "Our Ukraine." If we're creating something, we're definitely going to have to find out that two groups and factions are falling apart, which were and are based on what's left of something new. So we have to do it again in this case, given that there were secretaries, that there were some rooms, that there were some decisions that allowed you to participate in your counseling, two men, and now there's only one. Then this faction doesn't give us any data today about who's authorized by this faction and all that. So it seems to me that this information needs to be accompanied by a number of very necessary decisions to make it clear that the two factions that have been here have disintegrated and have formed one. Because it will continue to operate the secretariat of one faction and another faction, apparently. And we're not going to understand who we're dealing with, who's authorized and all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u181	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts, we had a discharge. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 is under review. Such rules of procedure are proposed. Report of First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine Nikola Janović Azarov, in 20 minutes. The answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. A report by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, I'd call it a co-report, in 20 minutes. The answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. Presentations by representatives of the MPs and groups, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputies, within the hour. Then we have a draft decision on inadmissibility, which is the time to justify the draft decision. Author Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. And then motive and decision-making. For all of this, it's up to 10 minutes. Is there no objection to such an order? This is the Rules of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Let's get to it. Please, Mikola Janovich Azarov. Then we'll go 45 minutes if you, dear fellows, want to. Well, you can't let that happen, it's a budget -- it's a serious matter, let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. The need for the adoption of the State Budget Act 2005 not only stems from the acute socio-economic situation in the country and the need to stabilize it as soon as possible, but primarily because for the first time in the 2005 budget there is a significant increase in social programmes and their share of total expenditure increases from 48 in the current year to 58.5 in the coming year. These costs cannot be implemented in line with the average monthly expenditure this year, as if the average expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget for 2004 was 4.6 billion per month, the average expenditure of 2005 would be 6.2 billion dollars. Grieve. Is that not understandable to those who are surprisingly irresponsible in their proposal not to consider the budget? The Government has done its utmost to ensure the timely adoption of a real and balanced State Budget Act. Most importantly, we did not allow for the collapse of the country's financial and economic situation after the well-known political shocks. The banking situation has been stabilized, and the previous level of income has been restored to the State budget. I can proudly report to the Supreme Council that 21.12 has received 400 million dollars. only through the tax service. On the 22nd-264, today we expect to get 280. And in the remaining days of January, we plan to receive 415, 325, 670, respectively, and fully recover December-month income. A system of payments in the public sector is in place. The level of government funds in the Treasury is being restored. To date, this asset level has exceeded seven billion bracelets. The necessary resources have been created, conditions for full financing of all social programmes in January. There is a paradox when there is money to finance the pension deficit, the financing of other social programmes, but there is no legal right to transfer them to the Pension Fund. On 31 December, I no longer have the right to do so because the 2004 budget does not have such expenditure, and on 1 January 2005, I do not have the right to carry out these expenses, since the Budget Act has not yet been adopted, not yet signed by the President, has not yet been published, has not yet entered into force, has not yet entered into force, has not yet been issued, has not yet been given the relevant budget schedule, and the relevant documents have not yet been submitted to the budget. I did not hesitate to mention the procedures to be taken after the budget was voted on in this room. This is not only a breakdown in the payment of pensions in January, but also in a number of other social programmes. Is it not clear that those MPs who do not vote in favour of the budget, by their actions, are deliberately driving the country into a serious socio-political crisis, is it not a lesson for them at the end of November and at the beginning of December, when the country suddenly, for all objective reasons, has not proved to be a serious lesson? I'll put it this way: maybe someone needs these big shocks to solve their problems, based on them? But in rephrasing the words of a well-known policy, it is necessary to say with certainty that the people of Ukraine need peace, calm, stability as the basis for economic growth in prosperity. The people of Ukraine do not need major shocks, but they need a large Ukraine. I recall that the adoption of the budget will enable the approval by the end of the year of more than 12,000 local budgets and, as from 1 January, the financing of budgets with increased social obligations. It must be made clear that, whatever the motives of the people's deputies are, the person who does not vote in favour of the budget today will vote against the increase in the minimum wage with a ratio of 262 bracelets from 1 January, which is set at 5 billion dollars in the budget, the payment of targeted benefits to pensioners whose pension is less than the minimum wage. In fact, in December, I will say that the indexation of October was 290 grivens and 295 grivens were paid for January. Pensions for those who have been employed full-time on underground work and compensation for the difference between the amount of insurance contributions paid by agricultural enterprises by the special tax regime entities and the contributions they would have paid on a general basis, the equalization of the pension of the military in the budget is one billion dollars in the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Agriculture, the establishment of an agricultural fund, the Ukrainian Agrarian Insurance Grant Fund and the provision of a budget grant of 535 million grivens. In January, we are going to begin to pay compensation unpaid in 1997-2000 to teachers and academic teachers, seniority allowances and assistance for annual leave. The budget provides 690 million. Payments have been increased by 2.3 times, scholarships to university students and students in vocational schools. Payments are increased by two social guarantees to war and labour veterans. Increase in the subsistence minimum, the introduction of social security legislation from 1 January, which had previously been suspended annually. For example, such as free food for first-to-fourth-grade students, teachers'salaries, museum workers, and paid one-time payments to science and teaching workers, which are paid 707 million grevens. The increase from 1 January to one and a half times the calculated rate applied to determine the extent of State social assistance to disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities. An increase of 13 per cent from 1 January to the minimum standard of subsistence for incompetent citizens. The budget process takes into account many of the proposals made by the people's deputies, in particular the reimbursement of local budgets, payments made on the basis of judicial decisions, for compensation to teachers and academic and pedagogical workers for retirement benefits paid in 1997-2000; improvement of the mechanism for meeting the State's obligations under reduced cash savings; increases in the rent for oil and ammonia transport; and provision of short-term loans to local budgets in cases of temporary cash gaps related to the financing of all local budgets. In addition, it is proposed that some 20 new programmes be included in the draft budget for 2005 that will be at risk of disruption. A few words on the economic foundation on which budget calculations were based. Even after recent developments, all major socio-economic indicators have declined slightly, but are within the projected limits. In 11 months, the growth of gross domestic product in Ukraine was a record number of 12.4 per cent, which confirms the sustainability of the Ukrainian economy. The growth was mainly due to an increase in gross and value added in construction by 22 per cent in agriculture by 20 per cent. The total turnover, we'll just think about that figure! - compared to last year, it has grown by 140 billion rubles. The nominal gross domestic product will be estimated at 341 billion by the end of the year and we now have more than 300 billion. Industrial output growth for January-November was 13.4 per cent, 11 per cent for November and 3 tenths. In November, particularly important, the growth of food production was the most important factor in positive dynamics. In engineering, in metallurgy. More than 70 per cent of industrial growth in general was achieved through the production of products in these industries. As a result of 11 months, the largest increase in major industrial activities is recorded in machinery, and 31 per cent in machine growth. Since the beginning of the year, exports of $7.5 billion have increased despite baseless consumer pressure, the annual inflation index of December by December last year is projected at 10.5 per cent. This is not a particularly pleasant fact, but there can be no critical increase in inflation. When it comes to inflation and it's only connected to social benefits, it's not all true. We have managed to keep inflation within reach, despite the combined impact on the economy of a number of extremely adverse factors. First of all, this relates to last year's catastrophic crop failure, when we only collected about 20 million tons of grains, which is more than twice as low as in 2004. This has been the most unproductive year of 60 years. We collected only 3.6 million tons of wheat. Both 2003 and 2004 have had consequences in terms of rising food prices. In 2004, we had to form the State budget in a way that would provide sufficient resources for grain stockpiling in order to provide bread to the population and to control the price situation in the country. And we've done that. We have invested considerable resources in supporting the agro-industry complex and procurement in the state reserve. The second challenge that we have faced in the past two years is caused by more than twice the increase in oil prices in world markets. This, in turn, has led to higher prices for diesel and gasoline, and thus increased prices for all products, despite the fact that Western economies have responded to the rise in oil prices by a significant increase in budget deficits, a slowdown in budget and GDP income, we have been able to prevent a significant increase in oil prices from affecting our economy. In addition, we have experienced an increase in the price of metal. In the past two years, prices in world markets have increased more than two and a half times. This, of course, is positive, because this is our main export component, through which we increase the balance of payments. But on the other hand, it's an increase in domestic metal prices. And we are aware of our responsibility and must make every effort to curb price increases and to combat inflation. We have already forgotten that over the past two years, the dollar has dropped by more than 33 per cent, since it is the world reserve currency. At the end. The economy, and recent developments have shown this, has developed in the face of political risks and shocks. This is all true of the conditions under which we received 10.5 per cent of inflation per year. To date, government budget revenues amounted to 64.3 billion. It should also be noted that, on Monday, 100% of the annual social expenditure of the State budget and the full amount of inter-budget transfers have already been funded, so now the full stabilization and adoption of the budget by the end of the year is a priority for us. In no case should we forget that the budget is the main financial document on which the country lives. A few words are made on the main refined indicators of the budget presented. Ukraine's 2005 forecast for economic social development was refined to take into account the trends that have taken place in recent years, even as a result of past political developments. That is, the nominal gross domestic product is 410 billion bracelets. The real growth of gross domestic product is 6.5 per cent, the consumer price index we plan to conservatively estimate 8.7 per cent, and we expect to be able to lower this level. Export growth 106.9%, imports 111.2. In line with the Committee's budget without transfers, the forecast for revenue for the combined budget is 109.6 billion dollars or 26.8 per cent of gross domestic product, including the government budget of 85.1 billion, and local budgets of 24.6 billion. Compared to 2004, with the changes made by the Budget Committee, the new projected income increased by 27 billion dollars or 33 per cent. Of these, the State budget is 21.5 billion or 34 per cent. Local budgets represent 5.6 billion or 29.4 per cent. Only 2 years have passed since 2002, but if parallels are made, the consolidated budget in 2005 is almost double the consolidated budget in 2002. And the growth in the income of the budget is in line with the country's development trajectory. A few words about government budget deficits. I've had a lot to talk about. Compared to the previous option, the deficit of the State budget has decreased to 8.8 billion, which is almost 2.2 billion by reducing privatization. The ratio of government budget deficit to gross domestic product following changes is 2.1 per cent. I have already mentioned that the developing economy can afford a deficit in the State budget. We expect to cover this budget deficit through external and internal borrowing. At the end of 2005, the State Debt limit would be: an internal debt of 15.8 billion grevens, an external debt of 9.3 billion. In fact, the ratio of direct guaranteed debt to gross domestic product would be 20.9 per cent, three times less than the critical level adopted by the Maastricht Agreements. In 2003, we had this ratio of 29.5 per cent and in 2002 to 33.6. So who can talk about us raising our debts? On the contrary, we're reducing them. That is, Ukraine's relative debt has been steadily reduced. Over the past years, Ukraine has followed a well-balanced public debt management policy, the main feature of which was to reduce the risk of borrowing by increasing time frames and reducing the cost of service. That is, from expensive short-term loans to cheaper long-term loans. The fact that the authoritative journals “Emgenmarkets” are well documented for the success of external markets operations. Evrovik was named the best government transaction in Ukraine. A few words about spending. The budget for 2005 is projected at 120.8 billion or almost 2 billion less, in agreement with the budgetary committee, compared to the government option. The percentage of social expenditure in the consolidated budget is increased by nine per cent compared with the previous budget in 2004 and is 58 per cent. The main objective of the revision of all State budget indicators was the unconditional provision of 100% of the pension fund's financial resources. The income of the Pension Fund is generated from its own resources, as well as from the State budget. Therefore, the total income, the income of the Pension Fund next year, is projected at 50.2 billion dollars, of which 38 billion are the own funds of the Pension Fund. That is, we have projected an increase in our own income for 2004 of only 6.5 billion rubles. I answer the critics immediately. For example, in 2004, the pension fund's own income grew to 10 billion. What reason do we have to believe that the increase in own income in 2005 of the Pension Fund will be less than that figure? That is, we are pre-imposing a pre-eminent increase in pension income and a lack of deficit. The payment of monthly public targeted pension assistance in 2005 as in 2004 will be made through the Pension Fund and the State Budget. The need for the State budget for grants will be determined in the light of the level of pensions that will increase, given the indexation, which will reduce the requirements for its payment in subsequent years. In addition, the main macro-indicators for economic and social development increased in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u183	Please, for a minute, there are repetitions to complete asking for the prime minister to perform his duties. Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u184	In addition, the growth of the core macro-indicators of economic and social development in 2006, in particular the Labour Fund, workers in the economic sectors, would enable the Pension Fund to provide funds for the payment of grants from its own resources. Retirement costs for military personnel are projected at 3.9 billion. These costs are increasing by 1.4 billion compared to 2004. 995 million Recalculated early-retirement pensions with a view to reducing the differences in the pensions of military personnel, depending on the time of their retirement. The draft budget also provides for a new minimum wage. Education costs will amount to 9.8 billion, an amount of 2.8 billion. bracelets or almost 40 per cent more approved for 2004. Health is provided for 3.4 billion people. The central cost of medicine increased by 3.4 times compared with 2002. The final draft budget increased the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence by 872 million. Grieve. In particular, it should be noted that the total amount of public budget lending for 2005 takes into account inter-budgetary transfers and subsidies to local budgets that relate to the protected expenditure items of the general budget of the State budget and cannot be redistributed. Without them, the agricultural sector and rural development costs were 11.2 per cent. Social and cultural development activities in the village and social protection include expenditure of the State budget of one billion and expenditures of more than four billion local budgets. For 2005, Min APC provides for expenditure on general and special fund loans of 5.4 billion, almost twice the 2004 budget. For comparison: 2.9 billion and 3.3 times the 2002 budget target - 1.6 billion There has been a significant change in support for the agrarian sector since 2003, when the Government, in view of the situation in agriculture under the adverse effects of natural and climatic factors, has taken into account a number of disaster management activities. A few words about the proportion of local budgets. Income is projected at 24.6 billion. Grieve. Expenditures will amount to 47.3 billion. against 33 billion in 2004, i.e. local budgets are increasing by 14 billion. Inter-budget transfers of 28 billion are planned next year, a 16 per cent increase over 2004. Grants are provided for 10.1 billion or 21 per cent more, a subsidy of 7.8 billion, an increase of 5.6 per cent. We have also provided further support for housing and utilities, which includes an investment of 450 million and 485 million for socio-economic development in the Territories. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! There are a number of shortcomings and shortcomings in any law, but when approached in principle, it corresponds to the spirit and meaning of the budget resolution that you have adopted, corresponds to the legislation that was passed in this room, corresponds to it and provides sustainable conditions for economic development in 2005. Therefore, in the light of the Cabinet of Ministers, it requests the adoption of the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u185	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, if you would please sign up for the questions. We have seven minutes left to ask. Mikola Janović took some time with us. Dear colleagues, we need to consult before we get to the questions. Usually, when we consider matters, we do not interrupt. Maybe you'd agree to that proposal, and we'd like to be supported by the Regulatory Committee, so that we can complete our consideration of the issue, and after what decision we'll decide, we'll continue to agree on how we can proceed and work, or maybe we'll take time to work on the committees. So we don't have to interrupt. Is there no objection? I thank you for your sincere support. Questions, please, on the board. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. And please warn the people's deputies that we are working on the finalization of the question so that they can be oriented and in the session room and be able to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u186	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, Mikolo Janovich! I believe, given that we are taking on a budget in special circumstances, that so far some political or political actors have not come out of the political arena. And it's important for me to let you know, for example, I don't know what Leonid Kuchma's position is: he's for the budget to be accepted, to be able to live without a budget, for example. I know he's not in his office, but he's signing off on his family and friends' state bonuses. So what's Leonid Kuchma's position? What position is Victor Yanukovic in? Because recently he said that the budget is so shameful and demeaning to us. Now it's like he's saying we need that kind of budget. After all, man is on vacation, and he's a key player in the political arena. So I ask you to inform us what position the President and the Prime Minister have on vacation with regard to this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u187	Dear Nikolai Vladimirovic, distinguished members of the people! I spoke to Leonid Danilovich Kuchma and Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic this morning. They understand well what the country budget is. And Leonid Danilovich assured me that he would sign the budget adopted, and the budget would enter into force by 31 December if adopted today in the Chamber. He also supported the adoption of the Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u188	Gennady Samofalov, if you please, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u189	Dear Nikolai Janović, there have been many discussions on the social dimension of the budget. Despite the acute situation of the past two months, I have indeed heard that nine per cent of the population's social protection is still at stake. I'd like you to say more clearly for the radio audience, for the voters, because it was said very quickly, and probably not all understood what the social focus is, that is, what the pension will be as of January 1st with the pensioners, the minimum wage, the scholarships for the students. Soldiers, and so on. I think it is very important for all of us to decide on the adoption of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u190	I called those numbers in my statement. I reiterate that the specificity of this budget is a significant increase in the share of social expenditures. This increase is 9 per cent compared to last year and 58.2 per cent of total budget expenditure is social expenditure. The pension in January will amount to a minimum of 295 grevens per inflation index. The minimum wage as of 1 January, if the law is voted in today's room, will amount to 262 bracelets and, respectively, all budgets of cities, regions, districts and the State budget will be set aside for the payment of already elevated salaries in January of the following year. I will not list any other social programs; I spoke very much about them at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u191	Valentin Josephovich Matthew. Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u192	Vladimir Matveev, faction of the Ukrainian Company, city of Nikolayev. Nikolai Janović, this is an interesting fact. Those regions that, let's say, voted badly for Yushchenko, they did. There is a strong attitude towards them when they are placed in the State budget. This is the case with the Kharkiv region, which concerns the Lugansk region, which is the Donetsk region. In particular, I'll give you an example of the city of Nikolaev. With an overestimated estimate of income of 22.5 million in the new draft budget, it has increased by another 30 per cent, and given that the debt of the Government budget of the city of Nikolayev is already around 10 million grivens, it is now more than 30 million gross deficits. How will the city of Nikolai fare in this situation? Is this really a bill-raiser? And a general question. We really can't afford a government development programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u193	Respectable people's deputies, the budget and the calculation of local budgets are not political. And, of course, the calculation of these indicators did not take into account and could not take into account the results of the vote, since the formula calculations take into account all the elements of local budgets. There is a programme, which I believe was carried out in July or August. There was no election then. And that's why it's called pulling your ears, you know. I understand that in Nikolaev, in other areas, some parameters are not being met by local authorities. But that's the first thing I want to say. Why, if we have reached a level of 100 per cent of public and local budgets in individual areas, regions and cities, the income is 25 per cent of the norm. So the local authorities have to deal with income. But I want to calm you down. The State budget is so budgeted that there will be no wages and social benefits in any city and in no area. It's fully guaranteed. Yeah, so you're not on the spot, you're on the spot, you're on the spot, I'm on the spot, I'm sorry, I'm on the spot. Which prevented the measure from coming to the Ministry of Finance, showing up and resolving the issue. Why has 100 per cent been funded throughout the country to date by all social costs and wages, and for some particular city, there is debt? So he's not working well and he's afraid to show his nose. He's afraid because we're gonna teach him how to work. So let us, my friends, calm down and reason calmly. The State budget has sufficient resources to address the cash gaps of all local budgets. But local budgets should first work and seek assistance only when there are either force majeure circumstances or, say, objective factors. The Ministry of Finance reviews, submits proposals to such cities, areas and short-term loans. Under the Budget System Act, loans to Treasury were prohibited in December, but if a critical situation arose, the Government would consider and take such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u194	Wojsz, please, the Faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u195	Dear Nikolai Janović, the word "city of Odessa" went wrong during printing on 53,11,800, I think there's a mistake that needs to be corrected. And the second question is, how do you feel that the Budget Committee has decided that, from the sale of non-agricultural land, the funds that were previously 90 per cent in the second basket of the local budget should now be 30 per cent taken into the public budget. This gave about 95 million additional revenue to the public budget. I don't think it's that big a drop in the budget to have to be taken from local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u196	Well. I'll tell you right away, there are some drafting details in the budget. If the Chairman of the Budget Committee and Parliament - the Supreme Council - supports these drafting clarifications that we will introduce them at the budget editing stage. With regard to the decision of the budget committee on land distribution, an amount of 95 million dollars for the State budget is not in principle and if the room supports the proposal and the budget committee agrees, the Government will not object.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u197	Shershun, instead of Samowalski, then Rudzikowski, and, uh, Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u198	Mikola Janović, I want to draw your attention to article 47 of the budget, and she determines that the purchase of Chernobyl treatment travel, the purchase of drugs and medical equipment for this category will be centralized again. The year that goes by has shown the impeccability of such a centralized approach, there are many complaints from areas that could be explained, there is no time. I propose to remove from article 47 of the bill the word "centralized" and the entire second paragraph, by placing it in the next line. Approve the 2005 budgetary targets for the implementation of the programme for the rehabilitation of the affected citizens and the comprehensive health care of the affected citizens, in the section of the administrative and territorial units, in accordance with Appendix 5 of the Act. Mikola Janovich, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u199	I'll tell you that in the order that was in force in 2003, and in the way that is now in place, there are a lot of shortcomings. When we allocated funds for the healing of Chernobyl by area, that was in 2003, they were largely distributed by local hospitals. At the same time, there are certain categories of Chernobylites that require treatment, not in specific hospitals, not in the area where they live, but in others. That was the problem. That is why we have recorded that the Ministry should consider and, of course, be able to better redistribute these funds to the health care network on the ground. Unfortunately, there were setbacks at the beginning of the year. We know about them. And it took an intervention by the Government to put the Ministry in order. I do not see the particular importance of how these funds are allocated. It is important that they be distributed in a literate manner. Therefore, a combination of centralized and local allocations would probably be optimal. For those in need of local recovery, please let them go, get well in place. Well, there's a number of people who need to be sent abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u200	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u201	Dear reporter, please tell us that we want to import goods again, to regulate the government. Perhaps it is necessary to return to the old practice of doing so by the Supreme Council? The other one. On the Conciliation Board, some issues were settled. Mikolo Janovich, for example, is second in article nine on transport, movement of goods across Ukraine. This is about cargo and passengers. They threw it away. Question three. You're very radically changing tax legislation. For example, in 2004, there was a procedure for taxing added value, for the implementation of gas in the internal market. She showed her effectiveness. Now in 2005, we're changing radically. You have to leave it for 2005, or it's going to increase the price of utility tariffs by 20 percent in the heating season.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u202	With regard to the adjustment of export and import duties, the experience of the work, for example, of the Governments of other countries to which the right is given shows that if domestic price conditions, production volumes, export conditions are changed more quickly, the Government can address these issues. But given the situation, if the Supreme Council does not adopt such a reasonable approach and leave the old order, we will not object. With regard to the transit of goods through Ukraine and the introduction of VAT. I think that if the Supreme Council supports the maintenance of order this year and votes, the Government will not object either. With regard to tax rules, I think we agreed on all these rules yesterday at the Budget Committee meeting, and so I was informed that these rules were agreed upon with Terehina, the financial committee and the Committee on Budgets. We have accepted practically the old drafting of these rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u203	Joseph of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u204	Mikolo Janovich, Winsky, Soccer faction. If you remember, in the autumn we had a very serious discussion about the government’s illegal steps in regard to how pension payments were made. So we demanded that the draft changes to the Budget Act be passed by the Supreme Council. We understood that there would be a 100 percent vote, and then the government in the budget would make pensions payments, and maybe go further and make full pensions. You three months didn't understand where you took the money for this, but the pay was done, we brought you in for this, because, right, we have to pay bigger pensions. Tell me, why was October, November, December government able to act this way, and January, February, March no longer allowed? And why is there such a hysteria around the budget today about this particular issue? Why are these speculations that no one has been imprisoned for violating the government’s budgetary discipline?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u205	Respected Joseph Vikettievich, no violation of budgetary discipline was allowed by the Government, and no one in prison would sit because the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in June-months, adopted amendments to the Law on the State Budget for 2004 and adopted article 109.3, which allowed the Government, during 2004, to use for targeted pension payments the over-planned proceeds of privatization, by issuing a government order to do so. [[I'm answering your question.]] This Government decision has been issued and 4.5 billion have been issued. Over-planned income from privatization has been allocated in accordance with article 109.3 of the State Budget Act. That is why we will not be able to finance this supplement in 2005, as this rule of law only applies in 2004. I now answer your second question. The Government considers that it is necessary immediately after the adoption of the State Budget Act, which will determine the amount of funding for the Pension Fund's deficit for this amount to be calculated, to develop a law corresponding and legally applicable to the implementation of these supplements in 2005. As long as there is no relevant line in the State Budget Act, the Government cannot decide to determine this amount. In particular, the Government will immediately approve the Pension Fund budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u206	Thank you, Mikolo Janović. Time's up. Thank you, sit down. The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Peter Poroshenko, has the floor for the report for up to 20 minutes. Answers to questions within 10 minutes. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u207	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I don't think it's gonna take 20 minutes for me to do this. This draft budget was not part of the budget committee; this draft budget was a continuation of the traditions that were set up during the 2004 budgeting when Parliament was effectively removed from the development and implementation of draft State Budget laws. The fact that we ourselves are looking at the law for the first time in our second reading is December 23rd and a powerful confirmation that this draft budget cannot be qualitative. I think that we are now reaping the fruits of creating what is called the majority when, at government meetings, MPs were discussing a meaningful part of the budget, taking over their own areas of investment, making contributions to certain principals, and on such a "partner" they were trying to accept the budget. The budget came to Parliament on December 14. And of course, in three days of work on the Budget Committee, we couldn't improve that budget. The only direction that the Budget Committee was working on was to reduce the budget deficit in order to reduce the risk of budget failure in 2005 and to prevent the increase or occurrence of debt on wages and pensions. This is the only explanation for today's consideration of the budget bill, right now, and in order not to be able to create a risk of non-payment of pensions and higher minimum wage, starting on January 1, 2005. I would like to remind you that by January 5, the Pension Fund was to start paying pensions to retirees for January. Each month, more than one billion dollars need to be recalculated to compensate the deficit of the Pension Fund by the State Budget. If the State Budget Act, a bad law to which most factions have no bearing, is not adopted, starting on January 5, 11 million pensioners will be left without a pension. If today's bad budget law is not adopted, I stress once again that neither the faction I represent has any bearing on, and with which most of the national MPs do not agree with the content, in fact, in government finances there is no possibility to execute the Ukrainian Minimum Wage Act, on payment from the first of January of an increased minimum wage of 262 dollars. I would like us to be extremely responsible for such threats. I stress that the Constitution of Ukraine clearly stipulates that any expenditure incurred by the state must be made exclusively on the basis of the Ukrainian State Budget Act and cannot be regulated by any other law. The legislator provided, in the event that the State Budget Act was not adopted, for article 46 of the Budget Code, where expenditure is regulated in the context of the 12th preceding fiscal year. That means we are. In fact, they don't have the right to approve their budgets, in fact, we have to finance a minimum wage of 237 dollars at best. And this is the responsibility of 11 million pensioners, millions of those working in the economy have been united by members of the budget committee in the decision and in the proposal to submit a draft budget for the consideration of the Supreme Council and recommend the adoption of the State Budget by the people’s deputies. If you look at the Final Position of the proposed document, you will see that the Supreme Council is proposing to develop and by 15 February to accept the changes to this document, this is another confirmation of the negative assessment that the budget committee gives to the substantive part of the bill and in these changes to anticipate an increase in the level of social protection, because this budget, in spite of the frenzys of the Pension Fund and the minimum wage, is not social in fact, and we also stress that this budget is not a development budget guaranteed, is really dangerous, because the coming of privatization to which I would like to stop separately, because the budget committee has found an opportunity, by carefully working, to reduce the amount of privatisation from the 7 billion proposed by the government to the amount of less than 5 billion, 4 billion, 900 million. [[That's what I'm saying for the transcript.]] Your papers, dear friends, have a figure of 5.2, but the wrong amount of expenditure has not been transferred from the general fund to a special one, so the actual budget deficit, the more real revenue from the privatization that is planned, and I would ask Mikola Janović to confirm it, is $4.9 billion. What does that mean? That we're going to have to sell less revenue to state-owned enterprises in order to just eat them. Because the conceptual idea of privatization is to create powerful infrastructure projects. And I think that the new government, and I hope that the new president will implement the proposed positions qualitatively. Thus, the budget committee cannot report that it approves this budget. But the budget committee can confirm that we have reduced the government deficit by more than 3 billion, reducing inefficient expenditure, and the government has agreed. In some ways, we have worked with the Committee on Finance and Banking, certain tax standards and the obvious disadvantages of these tax standards have been removed. I emphasize that when we adopt the budget we solve the problems of reduced deficits, we solve the problems of tomorrow in the event of a successful vote and the signature of the draft law. local budgets will be able to adopt their budgets, we'll solve the problems of depositing in commercial banks, which I've been approached about, asked questions, even if the President doesn't sign yesterday's Turkish Bill. We are solving the problem of 14 types of social benefits, and this is the only argument that the Committee is asking you to vote in favour of this Act. At the same time, many critical comments have emerged recently, including from our colleagues. The vast majority of these observations, both about concern at deficit levels, and about concern about regulating certain fiscal and tax provisions, and about concern about reducing social protection levels, we're completely sharing. And once again, I would like to point out that we are going on February 15th all these issues guaranteed to be settled. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets, actually finished its work yesterday night from yesterday to yesterday, but yesterday the Board of Auditors decided to entrust the Authority and the Committee of Budgets to take account of the factions' wishes and to pass a harmonized bill where some adjustments will be made at the initiative of the Government. Unfortunately, not all the changes were possible to include in the table that you were given, in particular in article 83, paragraph 44, was a proposal to remove, because really accepting this item poses a threat to the operation of a single energy plant. 300 million in support of technical re-arms, as agreed with the Government, with the prime minister and vice-premier of the fuel and energy complex, were transferred from the general fund separately. Technically, I fell out of the appeals courts for the construction, construction, and construction of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, 14 million of which are included in the resource. He's drunk. Normie's about. The Kyiv Court of Appeal and the support of the Courts of Appeal were exchanged by codes. [[Code 0501030 and 051810]] In article 63-1, there was a call by national deputies from Kiev City, Kiev City’s head, to remove an objective list that was to be built up at the expense of subsidies for the capital city of Kiev, and considering that the city’s head had confirmed that both objects would be upgraded, we really went to the meeting, and perhaps we should not have specific addresses in the bill, and went to the meeting to remove these objects. [[I'm doing it for the stenographer.]] Article 9, paragraph 2, is transit. What Mikola Janovich answered. We can come up with compromises when tax exemptions on added value will take place on a list that will be approved by the Cabinet. Because, for example, if there's an economic justification. And the threat of loss for Ukraine of transit positions by different types of goods, let's say coal, there's other positions, the Kabin transfer the right to approve this list. For high-cost competitive goods, perhaps even this benefit would have to be removed in order to provide adequate social benefits. We think it's acceptable. Article 85-2. With regard to the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to set duties. Mikolo Janovich, there was a very hard discussion on the Conciliation Council yesterday. We have been accused of violating the Constitution. And the committee yesterday. Not the committee, I'm sorry. We had to meet with government officials to meet the demands of the Conciliation Council and remove the government's right to raise government duties. I'd like to ask and say this again for the transcript so that we can delete this rule -- article 85, deleted from the State Budget, article 9-2. Article 54. Dear colleagues, this is what I wanted to emphasize to the representatives of the agrarian faction. Line 372 and 373. 373 lines - where there was an order to pay contributions to the Pension Fund to enterprises operating on a fixed farm tax, we can then technically rework with the adoption of the law yesterday. If the law is signed, this rule will have to be removed from the budget. If the law is not signed, then we are determined. So we're asking permission in the drafting of the Law to take this position into account. On page 132, technically, we decided in the committee to transfer the funding of five million to the financial support of the newspaper Presidential Gazette, which had nothing to do with the state, so that we could transfer the expenses of five million to the reconstruction of the Mariana Palace, which is in an emergency state, and these five million of us were thrown out. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to give maybe more time to ask, because maybe I've released something to be able to clarify in the process of discussion and dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u208	15 minutes per question, that's how we're left with. Please sign up, your honors. Please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Tarasyuk, faction of our Ukraine. Then Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u209	I would like to make it clear that we adopted this law in agriculture today. It's called 6363. And please pass the word to warm up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u210	Please, warm up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, we're on the budget committee, considering the 14th article, after agreeing with the Cabinet of Ministers, we've left an editorial that envisions the implementation of the financial lysis operations of the country's agricultural technology. So there's a request to confirm this decision by the Committee of Budgets, and in article 14 after the word "Cyclonal-4," leave it. And also in the second paragraph of this article, after the word "Cyclonal-4," respectively, this text, which was agreed upon on the Committee of Budgets along with the Cabinet of Ministers. So, technically, I realized that they're out, leaving them in the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u212	Well, the budget committee actually made a similar decision. There was a discussion with the government yesterday about this. I think she was deliberately removed. If the Agrarian Party faction insists on this, I think it's an unresourced article. Mikola Janović, because second reading is still a government function, I would ask you to confirm by leasing, if the government doesn't deny it. Exemption from taxation, enforcement. Add "freedom from tax on the added value of borrowing foreign loans and grants, well, Mirkowski in knowledge, we discussed yesterday. In principle, it's not a resource. A request for confirmation. Since this is the position of the Agrarian faction in providing State guarantees, because this does not provide resources when the government approves, we include a stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u213	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine. Anatoly Frost will be next to ask her questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u214	Peter Aleksevic, of course, has to accept the budget, because the unsuspectingness and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not affect the situation with our veterans and pensioners. I have a short question about electricity. 1.7 billion we collect, in fact, an additional tax on electricity consumers, we invest in the electricity investment regime of only 600 million. Maybe it's time to move from subsidized electricity from budget to loan development when we create a bank and we send it to a bank and we lend it? Because we now have private and public electricity. And we have to take that into account, and we need to develop this whole, of course, monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u215	I thank you for your professional approach. In principle, this approach coincides with my own. I am deeply convinced that, on the first February, when we develop amendments to the draft State Budget Act, we must end the free distribution of public money. Indeed, pre-commercial enterprises, regardless of their forms of ownership, whether public or private, must be credited, the repayment of credits must be adequately secured, there must be appropriate business plans to protect those positions. And I am deeply convinced that credit support is the way that today will stimulate the effective development of industry. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u216	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u217	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, here's the situation. We talk a lot about the agro-industrial complex. And I think in the first versions of the budget, there was more than eight billion, six billion. The State Budget now has four and eight billion dollars, it seems. Now, let's face it, this is a very small amount for the situation that today is the agricultural complex. And especially I have to say, well, I'm not going to talk about vegetation, animal farming and so on, but as far as agricultural technology is concerned, there's actually a collapse today, not 90 percent of the technology has worked, but probably much more. That's the first question. The other one. Do you agree that the formal approach today for rural areas, let's say I can judge in my district and so on, it's probably incorrect, and it doesn't set up local budgets. And the last. Please tell me, how are we in this grant budget to the MPs: are we going to stick to and do what is laid down for the deputies in the grant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u218	Thank you, Mr. Anatoly. You've actually asked three questions. I'm totally fine. Mr. Anatoly, I fully agree with the fact that the level of agrarian financing where 16 million of our citizens live today is definitely not enough. Second position. The direction to which these funds are allocated is rather ineffective. The left side of the money does not reach the peasant, stays with the middlemen, stays in industry, and thus does not exceed 1 - 1.5 billion real financing of the village today. That is why today it is not only about the amount but also about the direction of use. I am deeply convinced that after the draft changes to the budget will be made on February 15, where the tax base will be expanded, where we will collect the price of a series of benefits, where taxes in Ukraine will finally have. are obliged to pay everyone. I strongly believe that there will be, firstly, increased financing of the agricultural sector and secondly, very important changes in the direction of using the funds that go to the village in order to increase their efficiency in order to support the farmers directly. Third position on subsidies. It's a set-up. We have both investment and technology. My principle position, we don't have to separate them, because last year's experience showed that we had a technological disaster, for example, repairing schools before certain elections, building houses, just giving out material aid, and I think it's just the principles of breaking budget legislation. The committee proposed that the distribution of funds, first of all, meet certain criteria for launching objects to be maintained proportionality across all regions, to ensure that they are based on the proposals of the national deputies, to agree with the committee, that is, what the government of Janukovich left in 2004 we guarantee that we will return to this practice in order to make it fair and transparent. As for the formula, this is a much more complicated question, because there are 2 problems: putting people back into manual mode, when financing people will depend on the good or bad will of a bureaucrat official, and when a bribe, I think it's wrong. Another thing to do, to improve the formula, to predict the characteristics of rural areas, because, first of all, we need to develop the socio-occupational area of the village in order for farmers, which is a third of the population, to have some priority, for example, to have 30 percent of the cappuccines to go to the village. Here I fully agree with you, I am convinced that the positions of the new government must be enough to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u219	Please, Shurma. Behind him, Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u220	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Peter Alexiyovich, you know, thanks to the law that was sponsored by members of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Proskuratov and Voyage, the initial return of 57 articles to educators. [[united]] Today, not only are you listening to the national MPs of Ukraine but hundreds of thousands of thinking people are listening. I would ask you very much to announce from the rostrum the amount of money spent this year in return for the 57th article. That's the first one. The other one. I would ask you, if possible, because you always have good numbers, to tell me if there is enough money for school bus programs, for the computerization of rural schools. And please tell me. Substantially reduced expenditure on financing public health programs. It has a chance to make a correction in 2005 on the side of the increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u221	Mr. Igor, thank you very much. There is such a well - known Ukrainian proverb that the loss of an orphan and the victory of many parents. I would not like to stress whose version of the 57 - article Law has passed, but I believe that this was the decision of the entire Supreme Council. I'd like you, when you mention it, to remember the role of the faction "Our Ukraine" and the deputies who drafted this law, which stood, in particular, by Paul Kachur, Valerius Assadchev. I wish you hadn't forgotten the head of the Nicolanek Committee and others. Let's get away from the names, that was the decision of the Supreme Council and the decision of the Supreme Council we restored justice, we first in the budget that you're about to vote on, maybe the government will fix me, it's the government budget. I think 690 million is earmarked for the government, busy, 690 million is available for compensation under the 57th article. Now on a school bus and after computerizing schools. Well, first of all, I'm saying this again for the stenographer that we've deleted the word rural schools because there are schools in rural schools where computers should be installed too, but by ensuring the priority of rural schools in the article, first of all. So that we can just, maybe at the Ministry level, adjust accordingly. I can tell you that the increase in funding for school computerization by this year was done by the School Bus program, if I'm not mistaken, by 40 and 60%. These were articles that, of course, were not subject to any correction when we were limiting expenses in order to limit deficits and increase the balance of the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u222	Please, Shevchenko, follow him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u223	I'd like to give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u224	I'm going to answer, please, Catherine Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u225	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, we would like to ask you to make it more clear that the last sub-paragraph of article 54, adopted today's Law, is settled and is excluded from this budget once. Second, please explain why it appeared in the budget, in article 9 of the sub-paragraph allowing imports into Ukraine of sunflower oil with zero import rates. We don't have enough sunflower oil, we're exporting it. Why Zero Customs? We'll destroy our lines, our combinations. And how well-founded the import is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u226	Peter Alexiovich, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u227	Adam Ivanovich, give your word to complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u228	Sugar, the cheese was still there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u229	Thank you. First. Oil. I emphasize that there should be no standards for importing oil. [[delete when there is one]] Ukraine produces oil. Just like zero bets on any product produced in Ukraine. That's what I'm stressing. If it is there, it is necessary to remove it. Oil shouldn't be there. Second position. As for the paragraph you highlighted. I have made it clear that if the President signs this law, which was voted upon by Mr. Tarasyuk, this rule should be removed from the budget because it is regulated. If it's not settled, it has to stay and work any standard that regulates payment. This is where Mikola Janović and I agreed, this is clearly, the law is signed, the peasants are paying contributions to the Pension Fund under the new law. I've made it quite clear, Catherine Timothy. Thank you. Sugar and cheese. We had a discussion yesterday. We argued with our colleagues about the balance of sugar production in Ukraine. We didn't automatically introduce the import standard. We have the right of the government to go off balance and declare or not to make auctions. But you know, the previous years, we have no auctions or quota allocations, or donors have deliberately destroyed the sugar industry with cheap sugar and cheese, stopping domestic sugar factories. I would like to point out that today, the issue of donor schemes, I hope, is regulated by legislation, including other commodity codes. I emphasize that auction issues will only arise when sugar production is calculated this year in the case of sugar deficits in the market. It's a government tool. No sugar? Honestly, no less than 90 euros or, I don't remember, 30 plus 60, I'm sorry. 30 plus 60 to the State budget, fair and transparent competition. And only then will you buy the quota. The decision to conduct or not to conduct auctions is the government's decision. I think so, by the way. This has to be transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u230	Yes, I've already announced, Hiccup, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u231	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, I am familiar with article 9. You know what ambiguity there is about special economic, free economic zones. In general, there is the idea that the whole country can be declared a free economic zone because there is a cheap labour force or much of it, which is natural resources, that a low tax rate and so on, or should we have them at all, these special economic zones? Well, we wouldn't give them up. But we slyly wrote in the ninth article that we place a moratorium on investment and innovation projects in special free zones. How can this be explained? So we're starting to hold back all the investment and innovation in these zones that exist, or is this even a step to cancel these zones at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u232	Well, I'm saying again that this bill is government. My position that all economic operators in Ukraine should be on an equal footing is that everyone should pay state taxes, and the system of free economic zones and areas of priority development should stimulate export-oriented production. If you import for processing and export, please have the benefits, and only if exported. If you are going to sell produced products in the customs territory of Ukraine, you will be more competitively able to pay taxes to all Ukrainian producers. So I think my principled position is that we have to give up the benefits. While the State wants to support some depressing territory, all pay taxes, and the State of the State budget, which is to be large, finances individual projects that are publicly discussed in Parliament, are approved, and only after that do they go to finance depressed territories. Therefore, the principle is that free economic zones should return to the status that exists worldwide: work, expensive, export, in the internal tax market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u233	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich, please sit down. Yes, dear colleagues, as we agreed, we have an hour to discuss the matter. I'll do it again. Don't shout. There's no such thing as letters. We have oral questions. It's not Government Day. Yes, we agreed that it would be an hour to discuss the matter. First, the factions will give representatives a word, and then, as time goes on, the rest of the national MPs. Please, Grubsky Bogdan, the "One Ukraine" party, prepare for Rudzkowski. What is not in the Rules? Well, you read, and then we'll talk. Yes, Hubsky. None. Then please, Rudzkowski, the Socialist faction. Prepare the Voisha. Yes, please, Rudzkowski, there is not. Then Vojsz, followed by Dry, Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u234	Dear National Deputies! The faction of the State Budget in the next year wants to draw your attention to the following points. The faction certainly supports the budget proposals proposed in the completed draft, allocated 17 out of the seven billion pension money, an additional increase of 558 million emoluments to military personnel, the introduction of a minimum wage of 282 dollars from December 1st 2005 with the maintenance of ratios and an increase in the cost of annual annual assistance to war veterans by 145 million dollars. But at the same time, we think the revised draft budget is worse than the draft submitted on September 14th this year. This is especially true of the revenue of the State Budget. There was no need to reduce them, and we believe that they could be fulfilled. Indeed, the search for income and, in particular, the search for funds to implement the pension grant program has led to a significant reduction in some expenses, including social costs. The faction clearly disagrees with the reduction in education, health care, rural social development, and youth programs. I didn't fix the situation or the Budget Committee. Short - term expenditures for these important social trends have never been increased, and some have even been reduced. In particular, there is no increase in spending on the School Bus program, on computerization of schools, on non-increased loans to young families, and on gasification of rural areas. It provokes resentment and a decision by the budget committee, which deprived the local budgets of 30 percent of the second search. This is about coming from the sale of land. We believe that this decision should be annulled in the budget decision. Some gains can be attributed to the reduction of the deficit when the budget is being processed by the committee, but, at the same time, there is a question of closing the deficit at the expense of privatisation. This continues to be the practice of "eating" privatization funds instead of focusing them on the technological renewal of the economy. This also means that there will be no way to create a substantial stability fund that is needed in connection with pension reform. With regard to pension issues, we believe that the grant of the Pension Fund, which is planned for almost a tenth of the budget, is at this stage the solution to the issue of pension payments. In our view, the implementation of our Ukraine's proposals to raise the minimum wage, and thereby increase the income of the Pension Fund, is unlikely. It's more likely that the pay will go down in shadow and the income will go down. So despite all the shortcomings of the bill, our faction, aware of the social importance of the budget and the responsibility for the timely formation of local budgets, supports its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u235	Thank you. Please, Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u236	Dear citizens of Ukraine! It's a faction of socialists. Rudzkowski. At a time when hundreds of thousands of people are standing on the streets of the district centers, yesterday there were 200,000 in the center of Kiev, and they demand social power and transparent authority, the remnants of those people who called yesterday the Presidential majority of Kuchma and yesterday's opponents, who called themselves oppositionists in the morning, want to preserve this bankruptcy power, give them the opportunity to redistribute the State budget, because the second day after the adoption of the budget in the ministries, they're going to have tenders and they're going to share the state funds. This budget does not solve any social problem: neither village problems, medical problems, nor educational problems. It was thought that the budget committee had cut even those expenses that the government had allocated to medicine. Only those who have lost their conscience may vote for this budget. I can't imagine how those parties that call themselves left can vote in the Supreme Council for 5 billion privatisations. A 5 billion takeover, which clearly states that Squirelek will be sold for 3 billion dollars, where the Odessa import plant will be sold for a billion dollars. So, you know, Scrooge costs 15 billion dollars, Odessa's port, at least 7 billion dollars. How will the opposition that will come to power tomorrow differ from the bankrupt authority that it is today? I believe that this should be the personal responsibility of the factions and politicians who will vote for this budget. I think we should adopt a short law that Victor Mikhailovich and I have prepared that provides 264 minimum wages, 290 pensions that provide transfers in places, but no vote before the presidential election. Before the formation of a new government that will be responsible for each number, not for the sink. We should not accept this budget. Otherwise, we're going to have our government spending and our budget zero. How the government can regulate import and export rates itself, it comes up, and it doesn't make any proposals to expand the tax base. What are we thinking? We think about how to divide what citizens pay and how to save the money to the oligarchs. We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u237	Mikola Mikolaiovich, but the budget does not list objects that are being privatized. Please, Dry, Hard Ukraine faction. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u238	Dear national MPs, members of the government! We believe that the law is better, let it be a warning, perhaps not entirely perfect than lawlessness. Conscious of its responsibility to socially-unprotected populations, the Labour Ukraine MP and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour are proposing the adoption of the 2005 Ukrainian State Budget Act. In doing so, we need to legislatively consolidate the first achievements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government of Yanukovic in combining the components of social policy with the positive changes in Ukraine's socio-economic life. In view of this, we make the following warning. First. We cannot agree with the proposal to set a minimum wage of 262 bracelets, which is smaller than the projected minimum wage for working persons, and which represents 64 percent of the figure. The other one. We are not satisfied that the draft budget does not provide for the introduction of a single tariff network of budget staff in 2005. Third. Establishing at the level of last year, i.e. 80 sums of subsistence allowance for working persons in accordance with the Law on State Social Assistance for low-income families, leads to a reduction in social security compared to one person's living minimum, which contradicts the general agreement, fourthly, we do not qualify for care for a child up to three years of uninsured persons who do not meet the current legislation and are below the level of inflation and the poverty line. Fifth, there is a serious warning about the offer of a cabinet of Ukrainian Ministers to solve the problem of the return of citizens in 2005. Sixth, a special concern is the emergence of articles 88-1, which stipulates that the cost of part-time debt repayment costs, which took place on April 1, 2001, amounting to 12 million dollars, is paid at the expense of the fund: (a) the financial situation of the social insurance fund from accidents, causes great concern and (b) attempts at repeated, repeated attempts at rough intervention, or the administration of the fund's activities, can ruin all the benefits accumulated in the social protection of this category of our people. Seventh, article 89 of the Act establishes that the costs of providing social services and material security to unemployed persons are incurred at the expense of the fund of uninsured persons, which is also contrary to the principles of social insurance and will severely reduce the financial capacity of the fund and, lastly, again the injustices of donor areas: Zaporezka, Donetska, Kharkivska, has already been told about this, in all these regions, an unjustifiably higher income portion of the local budgets. Nothing good can do but increase the mood of decentralization and separatism. And at district council sessions, we're going to have big problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u239	Yes. Alexander Turchinov Faction of Tymoshenko Block, prepare Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, the budget we've been offered shows the real face of the Cabinet of Ministers, the face bold and vain. All the fairy tales the government told us over the course of two years about the growth of the Ukrainian economy in reality were an increase in the bankrupt shadow economy. And this confirms the multibillion-dollar debt that the Government today is proposing to the Supreme Council to approve in the form of a ten billion-dollar budget deficit. And it's amazing to juggle macros. Over the course of several weeks, the government changed macro indicators every day. And I think today when Mr. Azarov is asked half an hour after his report, and how real we're going to have next year's inflation, gross domestic product, and so on, he's going to say, "And which one do you want, they're going to be." Dear colleagues, you know, you can't seriously talk about adopting a government budget that doesn't have a prime minister, which is represented by Mr. Azarov today. All you have to do is talk about the SP that today is just a marginal -- 23 billion propose to approve the SP. In fact, today the budget is made and spent by ministries on their needs. Next. They've already said it, I'll say it again. Indeed, this budget proposes to reduce funding for both health care and education and agriculture. This budget remains lobbyist. No serious change in the amount of tax taxes, in the tens or hundreds of billions of dollars today, the government is not offering us. Why? Because they're benefits for their businesses, they're benefits for their oligarchic structures that have been dug up in government offices today. What's more, we're proposing to actually destroy the energy complex. Today, we are asked to agree again to return to the demands, primarily those of energy companies. It's with these. The charges, that's exactly what the government of Yushchenko-Timishenko was up to. And today we're being asked to reverse all of these achievements, which actually led to the Ukrainian economy. There is much to talk about the shortcomings of this budget, but unfortunately there is no time left. I'll tell you what our faction's offering to get out of this problem. Today, we must adopt a law with you that has been passed by national deputies that obliges pensioners who are obliged to finance the social sphere. We must adopt this law in the first reading, thus ensuring that payments are made at the beginning of the year. And then next week, we'll continue the meeting. And when the Cabinet of Ministers is unable to make normal proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u241	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's focus on the draft law, I mean the State Budget, because we can't replace the State Budget with another law. And no one will sign it. And we're going to set ourselves up in a trap that we can't get out of. And the pensioners will raise us all to the villa and have reason to do so. Please, Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. To prepare the Empty Tank from "Trug Ukraine" and the NDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u242	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! After our basic law -- after the Constitution -- this is essentially the second most important bill. And that's why budget attention is so natural. The difficulty of adopting the budget in 2005 is that it is adopted in an acute political struggle. And it's a shame that every year we have the practice of adopting the budget in the last days of the year. We take the rush, we take the unbalanced, we make the big mistakes. This year has not been the exception. On the one hand, the end of the year -- the budget needs to be adopted. On the other hand, hasty steps make many mistakes. Over the course of the year, we have adopted more than a dozen laws relating to the development of the agricultural sector. It is the Law on Milk and Milk Products, the Law on Meat and Meat, our basic Law on State Support for Agriculture. Finally, we adopted a budget resolution in June-month, which provides that at least 10 percent of the public budget expenditure should be supported by the agrarian sector. At least one percent should go to the social development of the village. What did we get in the budget offered by the Cabinet of Ministers? It's only half of that. This budget puts agriculture in an extremely difficult position. The social development of the village is also worrying. We've got about a billion dollars planned for these jobs. Almost one billion. The result was only half. The problem remains the gassing of villages. We planned 800 million, today we got 200 million dollars in the budget. And that's because this has to come from the implementation of Naftogazu's gas or debt since 2000. Such a source is highly questionable. Of course, some of the problems were solved today by the adoption of Law 6363. We got an extension of the taxes on the added value. We are grateful, fellow believers, for our support. We all realize today that the budget is very imperfect, but the non-acceptance of the budget puts pensioners' pensions at risk, wages in the budget area. It will apply to the non - acceptance, especially the defenseless levels of our population. So we have to compromise. It's the compromise -- the acceptance of the budget. So the faction of the People's Agrarian Party will vote for the 2005 budget on the condition that the positions that Peter Alexiyovich spoke about will be taken into account, they will be eliminated -- sugar-cheese, oil. And of course, then we have to work really hard on the improvement so that in February we can get rid of the problems that are in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u243	Yes, Desert Tenko Valery Pavlovich. Get ready for the Hapochki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u244	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, our citizens! As I do every year, I take very seriously the preparation and adoption of the budget for the following year. This is the main financial document of our nation, and whether it will be accepted or not depends on the further fate of our Ukrainian society, the lives and wealth of our citizens. What I want to say is that 10 years from now, when someone's going to be in this room looking at people's deputies, the draft budget, including there's going to be very big problems with their acceptance, I think there's going to be as much dissatisfaction as there is today. And the higher the level of development in our society, the more it's going to take every time to improve voting as individual articles, individual sectors -- it's both culture and science and education, and everything that needs to be financed through our budget. So first of all, I want to say how the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, and the head of the faction of the People's Democratic Party, and I'm not quite satisfied with the budget that's been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. There is no zero rate for transit of goods that will pass through Ukraine. I could say that through one of our ports, like South, there's a kuzba coal to export. [[I'm only one name.]] If we raise this zero rate, we can actually reduce the work of this seaport and others, including its transmutation in our ports, and this is the work of our citizens living in the country, these are the incomes of our budgets, many more. Unsolved are the question of 100% road financing, not in the full amount of the allocated funding for the construction of the Danube Black Sea Canal, but also for the construction of vessels for Danube steaming, because the loans were taken by the European Bank. We did not finish or allocate funds to the development programme of Ukraine’s small cities, which was adopted in this budget. So there's a lot of problems. I appeal to our deputies, to our factions as well, that the budget must be accepted so that we can secure a stable payment of salaries to the budgetary organizations and payments, principally, to our pensioners. It's sacred to us. Both our pensioners and our citizens are investors. I'm sure the budget will be adopted. And there's going to be a new process of making changes to the budget, where we'll generally better address the urgent needs that our voters require of us. Thank you for your attention and please support the draft budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u245	Thank you. Mikola Hapoczka, Union MP. Prepare Staszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u246	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today, Parliament faces a dilemma — whether it is to make decisions or not to make decisions. The issue of the budget today is the most complex, despite the large increase in income. But the issue today is far from being reconciled to all the problems that exist in society. But bearing responsibility to society, to the people for the fact that from January 1st all these social protection programmes, pensions, minimum wage raises, calculations with teachers and all those 14 directions that should be passed by the Union's parliamentary group responsible to its electorate must, so to speak, be subject to the issues that urgently confront society and, despite the great dissatisfaction with many budget issues, will support this budget and vote in order for society to work and work in a normal way in the development of society as of January 1. There's a few comments, I don't have a group's position to ask for government, there's a government program that's written down by the government, the Cabinet of Ministers approved this development and construction, reconstruction, the Water Program in Luhansk. There should be more than 30 million bracelets fixed there, but there is no point at all at this point. I hope that the government will adjust and, according to the procedure, bring everything into line. Today the question of the village is too. Today, I am fully supportive of what is urgent today in the whole of Ukraine about agricultural development depends on the indicators that have been projected in the budget. I want to thank the government for the support we've been asking about zero rates for gas implementation, and I'm calling on all my colleagues to do their duty to society, to support society's normal 1 January work and live more or less. and relative to a calm race. We have so many shocks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u247	Stanislaw Staszewski, Deputies' Group "Centre". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u248	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The present material complements an article that was not previously presented, 63-1. But it does not cover all aspects of the implementation of the Ukrainian law on the capital city of Kiev. Rather, it narrows down its functions, which led to contradictions with articles 22 and 92 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Therefore, we would ask that this article be deleted as being contrary to the above - mentioned documents. When printing materials, I understand that they were printed at night, a mistake was made and an amount of 43 million was not added to the completion of the construction and reconstruction of appeals and farm courts. In addition, the Center Group has studied the section of foreign political activity and we believe that the programs that were scheduled for this year have been reduced and even smaller than that year. For this reason, it will be the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Center Group will support today's decision on the 2005 budget when what we asked is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u249	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Prepare the Flood.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u250	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! First. The draft budget for 2005 was, in fact, a hostage to the battle of clans for the presidency. And the struggle against these clans leads to the failure of the budget, and it is determined which of the winners will in fact redistribute for the benefit of some financial and oligarchic groups of the country's State budget. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, during the discussion at the joint meeting of the Conciliation Council and the Government, I have asked the President of the Supreme Council of Lithuania to conclude this shameful meeting because there will be nothing left of the budget of the people of Ukraine if this meeting continues. The same situation is repeated today. The Communist faction, after all, made a responsible decision this year for itself. We will vote in favour of this budget because we understand that if they do not vote today, 11 million Ukrainian pensioners will receive 185 bracelets instead of 284 bracelets per month. One-time aid to the veterans of the Great Homeland War, which is set for Victory Day for the disabled of the first group, instead of 400 bracelets, will receive 195 bracelets, second group, instead of 330 bracelets - 165. Third group, instead of 270 grevens, 130. Fighters, instead of 250 grevens, 120. Members of families who were killed instead of 130 - 65. There will be no provision of $2 billion for the elimination of pension imbalances for military personnel who have retired before the year 92. Twice from 100 bracelets to 50 bracelets per month, social care for the child will be reduced to 3 years of age. Convinced that teachers will support us as well, because an additional 690 bracelets are allocated for the payment of exactly what was due on wages. 690 million, I'm sorry. I would also like to emphasize that the current budget, which is only part of the iceberg of the hidden problems in our economy. The Communist faction has repeatedly stressed that a large part of the budget is hidden from the State, almost 30 billion bracelets. Systematic budget non-payments for 1 November this year amounted to 8.7 bracelets. We offered mechanisms to fill the public budget. Thus, by voting for the budget, the Communist faction is tasking the Government to work to fill the income part of the budget rather than to distribute in its own pockets, as is done today by all those who speak in the fight against gas, oil, coal, electricity, banks and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u251	Vasily Ivanovich Potapov. Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u252	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected Nikolai Janović, respected colleagues who are completely budgeted simply does not appear to exist in nature. In discussing this, we forgot for a minute that this is the only budget for all the years of independence that we are considering, which has been increased immediately by 35 billion bracelets over the year. It's a consolidated budget. The “Regions” faction did not easily approach the adoption and consideration of the budget. And he believes that in all the many causes that we are discussing today, we need to get a little higher. The only possible option is this budget in order to pay on time, starting with the first number, all the payments that have been made in this budget. Vladimir Mikhajlovich spoke about it yesterday, experts spoke. We consulted today, and we know clearly. And that is why our faction will vote in favour of this budget. There is simply no other document that would allow social payments to be secured from 1 January. And if they tell us it exists, let them consult anyway. At the same time, it would appear that it would be wrong to consider this budget simply and adopt it. There are issues that have been stolen at night when we have changed some of the provisions proposed by the Government. First. For the first time, we are adopting a budget here in the Government Hall. It seems like it would be the other way around. Second position. Nikolai Janović, this is both for the hall and for the government. We do not have a tendency to increase the share of local budgets in the consolidated budget. Again, we are proposing a budget in which local budgets do not prevail. And the last. Article 70 sounded here. Indeed, at night and by mistake, article 70, paragraph 1, where part of the income of local land sales budgets is transferred to the State budget. This cannot be allowed in any case, and we will insist that this position be left in the previous edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u253	Bogdan Hubsky. And all the factions that were recorded had the opportunity to speak. The committee's about to make a statement. Welcome from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u254	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It is through the budget that the dry GDP rises must be realized in the simple values of our citizens. It's a decent salary, a guaranteed pension, free medical care and quality education. The budget focus should move into the social sphere. The "One Ukraine" faction has always stood for minimum wage and minimum pension, not below the living level, and this is 382 bracelets. We are pleased that we have achieved in the budget that since January 1, 2005, the minimum wage will be 262 bracelets and a minimum pension of 295. In the second half of the year, these figures need to be doubled at least. But in this context, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party disagrees. First of all, we don't take into account our proposals for a possible increase in the income part of the budget based on the rent on high-income fossils. And that's almost three billion dollars on wages and pensions. What is the government’s intention to increase the official income of the budget? Respectable Society! That's enough shadow business in our country! Secondly, it is very important to ensure the proper level of wage for budget workers and, above all, for those who form the moral and physical health of the nation — teachers, cultural and health workers. Is there a normal situation when a rural doctor handles three or four villages for 300 bracelets of wages without transportation or medical technology or medicine? It is necessary to take into account the position of the Chernobyl population and the availability of a minimum of 150 million medical equipment for the Chernobyl population. That's right. I am glad that the Supreme Council has in time supported my bill and overcame the President’s veto on the implementation of legal rights for workers in rural cultures, education and health care is not a free area of land. I hope that there will be support for the people’s deputies by another bill of mine, which is aimed at supporting rural cultural and health institutions by transferring their funding from rural budgets, where there is no funding, to the State Budget. Secondly, it's a shame when in a European country a large number of rural areas are not gassed, there is no heat, and a large percentage of schools are simply unlearnable. These problems need to be addressed urgently. Next, the government is proposing to address the problem of compensating for undervalued savings in Savings by way of advances. We deny paper social benefits that will only blow up the economy. People need to give money alive. And last but not least, the "One Ukraine" faction proposes in 2005 to the 60th anniversary of Victory to fully implement the relevant laws and provide war veterans with annual assistance and second, appropriate cars. This requires only 600 million dollars and only 100 million dollars in the budget. As a result, we suggest that we support all our comments on January 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u255	Yes, Vitaly Quickly from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A duck to prepare from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, I have come to say unusual things in this room in the budget discussion. We're always more used to talking about pensions, minimum wage, social protection, and things like that that are closer to our needs today. But the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, have their own questions about the budget. You know, on December 22, we were looking at this project at a committee meeting, we were also listening to the Foreign Ministry, and here are the conclusions that were drawn when we were looking at this issue. First of all, you know we need to keep our voice, and Ukraine is the founder of the United Nations, the United Nations and other intergovernmental organizations, international organizations. And if we look at the budget carefully, we're going to see that today we need an additional 46 million dollars to keep our voice there and to pay for it. And it is so impressive that Ukraine will not pay these contributions because this is not budgeted, and then the question will be whether we will be members of UNESCO, the ILO, the Council of Europe, the World Health Organization and the UN, as it has already said. That's the first one. And the second question I'd like to pay attention to is how we're going to further expand our capabilities abroad on trade and economic missions as well as other overseas institutions. So we figured out back in 2002, that in 2005 we're going to increase by 93 units our stay there, especially in terms of trade and economic missions, that's our investment, that's possible success in our trade relations, exports, imports and so on. But right now, there's not 40 million budgeted in the budget to expand these possibilities of ours, as we don't assume that we need an extra 21 million to keep those workers working abroad. And you know that we have a more or less good balance here. So from consular services today, our budget will receive some money that can be compensated. Therefore, in view of the above, the committee believes that this project should only be accepted in that part if it provides the necessary work for our foreign institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u257	National Deputy Kachur, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Get Rudenka ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u258	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I think all of us understood that the 2005 budget, given the election campaign, would be politicized, would be populist. But the fact that he will gain such a depth of populism and such a depth of unprofessionalism is unlikely to be expected in this room. The income accounted for everything that could be counted. Moreover, even in 2004, taxes were mixed by the end of the year only to make certain populist programs. We've allocated everything we can, and we've also set up a deficit of 12 billion dollars in the original. Most paradoxically, the government that, in September months, for popular reasons, has made a supplement that we support, by the way, but we support as above. As a simple increase in pensions, with one hand he signs the pension allowance, the pension allowance, and with the other he forgets to contribute to the budget, which he himself submits. That is exactly the situation we faced when we accepted. review of such a budget. Can it be rectified in full volume in order to vote peacefully? Obviously not. So now, when we make a budget decision, we are in a situation where we have to put out a house that is not just going to be set on fire, but which is already lit and burned. What are they playing at? In the first place, local budgets are traditionally played. So if you look at the table of plugins to the local budget, it's nice. It's really a small letter, so everyone doesn't see what's written there, but in income, the numbers are too traditional. In particular, I'm giving an example of Lviv. Take the year 2003, take the 2004 forecast, and choose the year 2005. The difference, if you try to make this trend, is the difference of 1.5 billion excess money. The other one. Take such a simple thing as coming from privatization for sale. So this is the land that's being sold in the area of the populace. Traditionally, we counted 90 percent of the local budgets, because that's actually the property of the territorial community. Today it's 70. I'd like us to emphasize that. Third. A means of transport. Recalculation, tax on the owners of the means of transport. 70 percent for the cities of the district centers. Very good standard. I support her. But take Mariupol, take Curve Rig, a city that exceeds many district centers by size and significance. Why they don't have it. So I'm going to suggest that you enter this, that you enter this standard for cities of area value. Next. Take the program of deported peoples. It's a very painful program. There are so many things that touch people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u259	Thank you. Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy Prepare Stanislav Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u260	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, government officials! The budget outline: the Budget Committee's budget government has shown its imperfections on a number of occasions. Because given the real sense of the government-parliamentary majority coalition, when we vote for the 2005 budget today, we're not going to find the extreme who is responsible for the political responsibility of this budget. Why, year after year instead of submitting the draft budget to the government in a timely fashion, and the discussion on the budget committee, after consultations on committees, and then on factions, we have a different picture, unfortunately, a traditional one: last night, no-night talks, and we don't know who put it there. Yes, we're afraid of not paying our pensions, we're scared by the villas, but, your honor, at the end of 2003, there was no political crisis, but unfortunately, I repeat, the traditional budget situation. So I'm going directly to the budget. We sent a letter to the government and to the budget committee about our position. We discussed on the committee yesterday those proposals that were put in place. We are very dissatisfied with the fact that out of the 34 proposals put forward by the committee, none of the proposals are taken into account. Nine proposals, on the other hand, have reduced funding. In particular, some examples. MPs, officials, businessmen, I'd like to inform you. When funding hydrometeorological programs according to the government's proposals, I urge you to stop flying planes, it's becoming dangerous because we're working with an old base. Natural elements will not be warned, but in other years we will find and spend enormous money on eliminating the consequences. We repeated our proposal, and I understand that the issue of acceptance, the non-acceptance of the budget, is mostly discussed on factions, but the Committee's conclusion is not acceptable in this type of budget. There are proposals by many deputies, there are proposals by Mr. Pinzenik, we tend to support this bill and with the new president, with the new government to accept a responsible budget. I'm sorry that in the year 98 on Chernobyl, we allocated 10% of the total budget, in 2004, 2.5% in the Chernobyl programme and in the first category of Chernobyl, 34 million dollars in funding was cut. What is the social responsibility? I'm asking you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u261	Yes. Next, Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please, from the Committee on Science and Education, then Herasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government, distinguished Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished citizens of Ukraine, the Committee on Science and Education twice considered at its meeting very principled and the previous draft of the Budget Act, and the final version. True, we were unable to see the latest figures because they were given today, but I was obliged by the Committee to say: First, we looked at the appropriateness of the existing legislation proposed by the Budget Act. We conclude that about 5.5% of the gross domestic product is expected to be allocated to education somewhere. But if you throw away the tuition fee, the contractual form of learning, this percentage will be just about 4 percent. As far as science is concerned, if the cost was actually increased by science, that's true, but as a percentage of the gross domestic product today, that would be 1.7%, and it's barely 0.6-0.7%. If you look at the basis completely: how the legislators and I are going to be concerned about our teachers, how we're going to care about the teachers of the university, about the scientists, I'm going to call you just 2 digits. Given that on January 1st the salary will be raised by 10%, the teacher's rate after the U.S.U.U. will be 315-314 dollars. A teacher who has a higher category and therefore has a large internship, he has a first bet of 396 bracelets. This is because you and I have offered a minimum level of living to have about 432 bracelets, and the government is offering 383 bracelets. So today, teachers, doctors and the entire budget sector are abroad. When it comes to other things without which there can be no learning. I'm talking about textbooks. Even in the first version of the government that was offered, there were better numbers for textbooks, for technical training, for computerization, for bus purchases, I see that there is now virtually a decline in all of these categories, and that's deeply concerned about our committee, because, let's say, we already have 15 million debts this year, we don't have to pay for the manuals that we're going to have to pay off next year, or other moments. I can't help but say about feeding the students at the gym, feeding the students, and social services. At least 60 million for food, 20 for community services, and just as many for technology and schools are missing in the world. The U.S. science is nearly double, and funding is cut by 80 million. It's a college without science -- it's, excuse me, it's not even a college. Sports for students and students are practically out of our range. There's not enough money to get a hold of it, it'll be paid again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u263	Gerasimov Ivan Aleksandrovich of the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons, and Prepare Kalinchuku
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u264	The Communist faction, Gerasimov. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. For almost six decades, we are separated from those memorable May days of 1945, when the whole country celebrated victory and victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. All the hardships and deprivations of military and postwar years have been borne by people like your parents, such as your grandparents. It was they who, in fierce fighting and fighting in the Great Homeland War, defended the honour, freedom and independence of their homeland, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, liberated the peoples of Europe from the brown plague of the twentieth century, and finally, after the war, realized, restored the destroyed population economy of the country, creating a powerful economic base on which the Commonwealth of Independent States was subsequently established. Each of the Commonwealth countries had decided in its own way on the social protection of older persons. Ukraine, one of the first in the Commonwealth, adopted the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantees of Social Protection and the Statute on the Status of Veterans and Military Service. The content of our laws was the most complete and largely addressed the social protection of veterans. However, since the financing of these laws had been entrusted to local self-government bodies whose budgets were not in a position to carry out those tasks, it had been found that the laws had been declared and had not been implemented. The issue of health care for this type of person is particularly pressing. This is because of people 80 years of age or older. In addition, they are all beaten, beaten, injured, sick, most of them disabled. For them, medicine is sometimes more important than bread. And drug prices are very high, not to mention any surgical operations that require thousands of dollars to pay, and there is no such money for veterans. Doctors refuse to even prescribe prescriptions for free of charge, as a result of lack of funds. The above is a grave violation not only of the status of war veterans and guarantees of their social protection, but also of the basic Act, article 49 of the Constitution, which provides for free medical care for citizens. The Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine has repeatedly asked that special funds be made available for the implementation of those budgets by a separate budget line. I'm asking you to win the sixtieth anniversary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u265	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Ukraine. From the committee, I'm sorry. Ivan Alexandrovich, thank you. Yes, Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, agrarian committee. To prepare Carmazin, the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u266	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the government! It is known that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been defined from 2005 to 2015 as a period of State support for the development of the agricultural sector and the social sphere of the village. This priority, of course, has to be fixed mainly to the financial document -- the state budget. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its extended meeting with representatives of government, scientists, local experts, reviewed the 2005 draft State Budget. The Committee noted in its decision that the 2005 draft of the State Budget was not included in its second reading, unfortunately, in the comments and proposals submitted by the Committee to the Supreme Council Committee on Budget and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the exception of proposals for the creation of a reserve of light petroleum products. This draft law does not take into account a number of requirements, the setting of the main fiscal policies for 2005 and the proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to them, the norms and regulations of other legislative acts that define economic and budgetary policies in the agricultural sector of Ukraine for 2005, as noted in the comments made by the Committee to the draft State Budget, as discussed in the first reading. A particular concern is the fact that the amount of funding of the APC budget programmes is not in line with the requirements and regulations of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, which has been in force since 1 January of the following year, which has been highlighted, again, in the Committee's comments. Unsecured financing of the bill balances the budget support mechanism compared to previous years. In addition, there are some inadequacies in this draft law, and I speak so softly about which my colleagues have already gone and argued -- this is a zero-in-oil truck, this is a sugar-cheese truck, and so on. I'd like to stop at one more problem. According to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, compensation to the Pension Fund for the difference between the amount of insurance premiums paid by agricultural enterprises under the special tax regime at the special rate and the contributions paid to them for the stated reasons is one billion 207 million dollars. In our view, it would be necessary to pay this amount directly as compensation to the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the expenses of pensions assigned to agricultural workers. In addition, the draft budget does not provide for the implementation of the Ukrainian Rural Social Development Act, and especially for gasification. As a result, the Committee decided to recommend a draft State budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u267	Thank you. I understand you're not finished, but time's up. Vasil Antonovich, there's nothing I can do. Well, I get it, time's up, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u268	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I want to welcome you, because tonight we're over 90 percent corruption. The government initially planned seven million, then left one million for one night today. Well, congratulations. We've never had a fight like this before. See page 166. After considering the financing of the judicial branch of government, the Legal Policy Committee concluded that everything was being done in the country to ensure that the judiciary was not an independent branch of government. Its needs are provided exclusively by 40 percent of everything. That's the first one. The other one. We are concerned about the ratio between the wages of judges of the same level of different courts. For example, in appeals courts and in appeals courts, the difference was two and a half times in 2003 and twice this year, the same goes for the future. Is that normal? Isn't it normal for a ratio of one unit of judges to the Constitutional Court to ensure the judge's activity? More than 1 million 24 million by 18 people, and in general, it's a few thousand. Is that normal? Therefore, these problems, as well as the unconstitutional nature of the individual budget provisions, make us obliged to pay attention to this matter to the government and to the attention of the budgetary committee. At the same time, we believe that the budget needs to be adopted, but we need to rule out anti-constitutional provisions, such as the provision of article 48 restricts benefits and compensations, guarantees that are provided to individual workers, military personnel, members of the military and primary staff on the reduction of rent for housing, fuel, telephone, and so on. This violates the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has already been adopted, including on March 17, 2004, which clearly indicates that this cannot be done. Anticonstitutional things are also written in article 46, which deals with the restructuring of the debt owed under article 57 of the Education Act. Dear National Deputies! The zero-for-transport rate allowed the ports of Odessa, Ilchivska, Mikoliev, Herson, and others to carry a lot of cargo here and get billions into Ukraine’s budget. It needs to be stored, perhaps not by all means. Now I want to pay attention. Now you've all seen that taxes taken in advance, Mikola Janovich, and I've been talking about this, three months in advance, they're destroying the budget. But I'm going to vote for this budget with my teeth squeaking, and I'm going to say, "Honorable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! It was a 1501 performance by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin on the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Yes, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Then Pinzenic will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u270	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia and Ukraine have remained in the Kirovograd region of Dolinska since 1985, with the participation of several Eastern European countries. A huge mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores was under construction. All participants have already invested more than $1.6 billion in this project, of which about $900 million has been invested. At the same time, and even at an advanced pace in the town of Dolinsko, a living room for workers was built for almost 20,000 people with all the necessary infrastructure. The reduced-to-minimum group of HOCOR serviced all the support costs of the combination and the social infrastructure of the city in 1989-93. [[Now 1,200 people]] All Governments of the independent Ukraine have tried to resolve the question of the completion of the construction of HOCOR, but none of them have had enough time for that. All year after the construction stopped, the combination survived and functioned with small amounts allocated from the State budget of Ukraine and from the technologically and morally obsolete equipment that went out of date. Thus, all the reserves for the further activities of the GOCOR team have been exhausted. The Ministry of Prompolitics declared 18.5 million griven for GOCOR in Gosbudget Ukraine in 2005. But the Cabinet of Ministers only provides for 4 million bracelets. That amount, you know, won't be enough for the first quarter of next year. In this regard, as the national deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from Kirovogradina, I am writing with the Director of GOKOR to you, Sir Nikolai Janović, with a strong request to support today, when the 2005 budget is approved, the GoKOR Directorate for its funding, in order to ensure the viability of the collective in the next year at 18.5 million griven. With regard to the crocodile tears of socialists who are pouring from this rostrum, who are supposed to be for the people of Ukraine, you would better tell the whole people how you voted in favour of the privatization of Ukrrupprom, Krivorožci and today for the oil processing industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, since we have a draft decision on the inadmissibility of the draft budget, I would like to give the floor to the author Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u272	Dear national MPs, dear fellow countrymen. Why you can't vote for this budget, I'll remind all of us that pensioners get pensions on payroll. Wages are rising, pensions are increasing. What happened now? In this year, wages have increased by 27 percent and pensions by 70. The three-fold gap is the imbalance that has already collapsed the pension fund, will now end the budget, and then the entire financial system of Ukraine. But instead of urgently saving the situation and raising the salary, in this budget, the government is actually reducing the real wage of the budget. This is the tragedy of this shameful document. And the problem is not that there is no right decision, but that there is no stubborn desire to make it. Let me remind you that the revenue of the budget will increase by 32 percent next year. Please tell me, what did the teacher, doctor, military, cultural worker, scientist do to us? When this budget gives him the right to increase his share by only 10.5% and not even red, they talk about the social orientation of the budget. We're glad to hear stories about the budget in two months, that's nothing more than a lie. Because resolving the situation requires raising wages by 35 percent and targeting not $5 billion, as budgeted, but almost all of the 2005 budget growth. Once the budget is approved, all the money will be prescribed by the State Budget Act and decisions on local budgets will not be possible. We know that from our own budget review experience. And every month the delay in wage-raising decisions will rapidly increase the deficit of the budget and the pension fund. There's no way out of this budget situation. We see it in the next. The Supreme Council does not approve this budget, but adopts Law 6438, which we and our colleagues have introduced, which deals with the issue of budgetary financing since January 1, 2005. These include answering the questions of pensions and other social benefits. And in January and February, the Supreme Council considers and adopts a qualitatively new budget. It is impossible to understand why this law is not even the subject of discussion. I'm not going to convince anyone else. For one thing, this budget cancels the rule of law that stopped the massive power outages, barters, mutuals, and the failure to pay wages to energy. Ukraine returns to darkness in a literal sense. I'm taking down a draft regulation on the inadmissibility of the budget. It was introduced to sound a position for each of us to realize.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u273	One second, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u274	What decision will be taken is the question of the civic responsibility of each of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u275	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be reasons before the vote. The closing word of Prime Minister Mikoli Janović Azarov. Mikolo Janovich, according to the comments already taken into account in the work process. Please. May I have your attention, please? Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can all make decisions consciously. Microphone, please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u276	Respectable People's Deputies. We thank you for the criticisms that have been made. In part, we have considered them now with the Committee on Budgets, and I will now briefly talk about them. However, there was, of course, much unfair criticism that we had to listen to. But it's probably the fate of any government. And that's what we're dealing with. I'd just like to make one comment at our address. It's said we're bringing in the equipment without tenders. But for whom do we do this separately? We do this for the Academy of Sciences, we provide $40 million, and we say that, by decision of the Bureau of the Academy of Sciences, we allow the production of high-tech equipment without tenders. But do we not trust such authority in the country? And that's the level of criticism sometimes. Now, with regard to proposals. We agree, and with the Committee on Budgets, we have agreed to re-establish the payment rate for 90 per cent of the sale of land to local budgets. [[Applause]] We also agree on 63-1 to remove the Kiev financial programme from the Ministry of Finance and to record the programme. We ask for our support for the increase in expenditure, i.e. the recovery of the previous amount of $61.4 million. Programmes for the resettlement of deported peoples. We will consider the proposal of Gubski for the establishment of high-income mineral deposits, and I think we will make this change by law. [[Applause]] We will also introduce a separate law and request that article 10 be deleted. We ask the 3205070 code to add 14 million to the child's health. By code 0501810, we ask to agree on an addition of $40 million. for the construction of ships. Karmazin Jury Anatolevich is also grateful for this statement in support of justice. Also under this code, 0711,000 will add three million to the completion of the construction of the business court. We agree to set a zero rate for the transit of goods on the basis of a list approved by Kabmin for these goods. We agree to add three million to the gacor. That's quite enough. I'm responding to the last performance. Four plus three is seven. How do we propose to do that? By balancing, by balancing the resources and expenditures of the budget. [[I'm asking this for a transcript, I say.]] And please allow us to edit the budget articles without changing the meaning and content.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u277	Yes, honourable national deputies, except there, we need to respond and see that we are not allowed to set duties. I think it's a matter of law. I'm just a stenographer. Taking into account the honourable colleagues, these proposals, I am putting to the vote the proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] To approve. Proposal for a committee: To approve the draft State Budget Act 2005 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking into account the comments and proposals made by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget and the proposals it has just made. What? Change the vote. What, Catherine Timothy, huh? Speak, please. Now, sign up, please. Five minutes, please. I'm sorry, we're out of women.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u278	Michael Janović Azarov did not hear the paragraph in article 54, which is regulated by the village tax law. Article 9, bringing oil to Ukraine, and article 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u279	So they took it, they took it. The chairman of the committee, Peter Poroshenko, said that these positions had been removed. Yes, please, on the board is the name of the national MPs. Gennady Udovenko, please, the faction of our Ukraine. May I have your attention, please? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u280	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I do not wish to complicate the situation, but I did not speak from the committee. In fact, the budget ignored all proposals made by the Committee on Human Rights, national smaller and international relations. In Ukraine, 25 percent of the population in Ukraine is national minorities. None of our positions are counted. But I'm considering that Mikola Janovich has just said that there will be an increase in the deployment of deported peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u281	Yes, Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine". The police will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u282	We talked to you about article 72. In the case of exporters, if they do not have VAT return, they shall enter the territory of the goods being imported into the customs territory. We've had the opportunity to do each other's bidding. And we wrote that we could do this together for those products that aren't for sale. This is described in 72 articles: “goods imported into customs territory for their own purposes”. But you added, "by the list defined by the Cabinet of Ministers." What does that mean? We're driving a reducer. We need to get your approval. We're taking the horseshoes from Russia - we need to get your consent. We're bringing in some kind of node - we need to get consent. We have already made enough restrictions: no sale, no domestic consumption. So let's do this line right over here, let's do the list, and then we solve this problem. I see the Ministry of Economics waving its head. But then imagine what we're going to turn into!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u283	The prime minister's acting as prime minister takes notes. Police Andrey, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u284	Andrew Politt, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Olga Ginsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u285	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u286	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and the honourable government, I wanted to address you because there were my suggestions that were somehow ignored by both the Budget Committee and the government. Appendix 3, page 124: “Financing the support of railway transport health facilities”. The proposal was to maintain budget funding for the maintenance of railway transport facilities and to place 300 million bracelets on the tape for the full financing of medical facilities. And I want to say it for justice's sake. While I was preparing for this talk, I analyzed how the 2001 budget was being prepared when I headed the Yushchenko government. You see, 9.1 billion dollars were made from privatization and 5.5 percent of budget spending was reduced in this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u287	Gennady Rudenko, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u288	Thank you. I think there's a very important point in the draft budget that we need to pay attention to: this is the fight against corruption. That is, the budget often mentions agreement or information with the Committee on Budgets. I think it was corruption. Any agreement with the Budget Committee has to be ruled out and we are working on it. Then I give the word to Borzov, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u289	Valery Borzov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u290	Dear Mikola Janovich, I'd like to make a request. The previously agreed question under code 5421100 "Development of a material and technical base of higher-performing sports" is included in the State Committee by a single line, including the construction of an Olympic base with 15 million archery. And second, code 3401170. Instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u291	Yes, Martinowski, please, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party. No questions? Then Rudzikowski Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u292	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Mikola Janovich! I made an offer, Mikola Janović, in the ninth article. I asked them to enter the protocols if you vote. Mikola Janović, in the 9th article, please write it down. And I want to pass on the word of Nikolainek Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u293	There, article 9 should be examined to see if we have counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u294	Dear colleagues! It's a faction of socialists, Nikolainka. There was a charge from one of the Company's representatives that this morning we voted in favour of privatizing the Cremenchug and Galicina oil factories. I want to say to everyone that the faction of socialists today voted 100 percent against 2 factories where state shares are privatized. [[This is Galicina and Cremenczuck Oil Processing.]] We're going against it. And the second. I am deeply surprised today by the faction of Communists, which for the first time in 11 years is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u295	I'm asking you not to ruin our deal. Let's vote together and everything will be fine. Yeah, I think so. Mikola Janovich will take these questions all into account, let's go now. Let's vote. You said the Prime Minister counted. Taking into account article 9. [[I'm talking about the protocol.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u296	They don't count, so they don't count. Calm down, please. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? It is up to the vote for adoption as a whole, as a bill, the draft Law on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking into account the safeguards and proposals of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and taking into account those positions that are agreed upon during the discussion. Please vote. [[15:49:32]] For 339 Ukraine’s 2005 budget was adopted. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 62,Region - 58, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 27, Labour Ukraine - 11, National Agrarian Party - 27, SPI - 3, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 15, Only Ukraine - 19, Center - 4, NDP, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 9, Deminiciative - People's Government - 12, Postfaction - 34. The Acting Prime Minister wants to thank us for our fruitful work. Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u297	Dear People's Deputies! Believe me, you made the right decision. The Government is deeply grateful that we have found a reasonable compromise with you, which provides a good basis for economic development in 2005. I am also grateful for the work of the budget committee, all members of the budget committee, for having been able to find agreed joint decisions. I thank you and congratulate you on the coming New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-23-m0.u298	Dear National Deputies! Since we worked from 14 to 16 hours, that is to say, we need to think about the decision we made and hold committee meetings, meetings in parliamentary groups and factions. Then I declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed today, tomorrow we will continue to work at 10 a.m. on Friday for fruitful work.
