ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:00:53]] There were 430 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you in accordance with the established order for the consideration of matters of the order of yesterday's seventh of October. 23 questions of the agenda were considered. [[11 Bills and 11 Draft Decisions]] As a result of their consideration, two laws were passed in general, four bills were adopted in the first reading, one bill was adopted in the second reading with the following third reading, one bill was designed to be revised, three bills were rejected, seven were adopted, four draft regulations were rejected. And also, as you know, yesterday, most of the time, we set aside hearings to be heard by the temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I'd like to ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. You have monitors, you can look at yourself. People's deputies' questions came up: GREGORY OF OMELCHEN to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the question of the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the teaching composition of the Kyiv Military List of the name Boden. Mr. Ivan TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of budgetary resources for the construction of the branch of the Faculty of Economics of the University of the State of Agriculture and Technology. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of the labour rights of employees of society with limited responsibility for “Photoreporter” in the Cherka region. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the preparation of the village of Jubilee, Luhanska, for the heating season 2004-2005. Stanislaw PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister for the liquidation of the Lutsky military hospital. Mr. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Prime Minister for concealing the Ministry of Defence from the public of Ukraine the amount of compensation paid to the victims by the missile-damaged anti-aircraft aircraft Tu-154 Russian Airlines over the Black Sea on October 4, 2001. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister regarding the appeal of war veterans and the work of the Kalinj district of Vinnitsk on the unsatisfying state of the pension provision of military personnel, members of the primary and military composition of internal affairs bodies. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for differences in government documents on the scope of funding for scientific and scientific and technical activities in 2005. [[RODIONOV, DRUGUNKOV, GRACHEV]] Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister on the illegal commercial activity of Ukrainian Defence Ministry companies, the Ukrainian Air Transport Company and the Ucrobonresa, resulting in significant budgetary losses, the sale of military property and the negative impact on the security of the State. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the State Executive Service to execute the decision of the Kyiv Master Court of the City of Kiev of September 27, 2001 on the collection of funds from the Open Shareholder Society “DEK “Centrenergo” in favour of the Mirgorod Industrial Management of Housing and Utilities. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory decision by the head of Malovsky's regime of Shulga V.I. the problems repeatedly raised in the parliamentary inquiries concerning the Yakimiv Rural Council and the economic situation of the region. Mr. Andrija ŠKILA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of determining the legal motives for the re-addressing of the Central Public Admission candidate to the post of President of Ukraine, V.F. Yanukovič, for the consideration of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Vassil NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Organizing Committee for the Preparation and Celebration of the 60th Year of Victory and the Memorial of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 on the award of war merits by veterans of the Great Homeland War. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the grounds that there is no State budget in Ukraine for 2005 budget allocations for the implementation of the provisions of the ratified Ukraine Regional or Minority Charter and the provision of a letter to the Council of Europe on the ratification of the Charter. Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the completion of the construction of schools in the villages of Semines and Falcons in the Ternopil region of Ternopil. Lilia GRIGOROVIĆ and Mikola KRUĆA to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-inclusion of the 2005 project of the Ukrainian State Budget for the city of Ivano-Frankivska. The Lebedev Valley to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the illegal understatement of most pensions as a result of the adoption of Cabinet of Ministers Decree No. 1783 of 20 November 2003. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime at the President of Ukraine on the situation in the Dnipropetrov region as a result of the abuse of the office of the head of the Regional Public Administration, V. Yatsuba and its surroundings. [[RED, OLEXIUM, AND OTHERS. Total 4 deputies]] The Lebedev Valley to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to prevent mass infections of bread and onion products by microorganisms. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the urgent measures taken to end the administrative impact of officials of the executive branch and the law enforcement authorities of the Susland region on the financial and economic activities of the agricultural producer Ševchenkovski Burjakordgospo, by leading to persistent financial incapacity and bankruptcy, corruption and abuse of the service for the purpose of monopolizing meat and agriculture in the regional market. Mr. Tamara Proscuratou to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of additional funding for grants and benefits to the population of the Lower Góra Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Jury CARMAZINA to the head of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for the use of urgent measures to ensure the constitutional right of the Monastery Local Court of the Cherkas region to state funding, the proper conditions for the proper functioning of this court and the activities of its employees, the allocation of budgetary resources for the reconstruction of the court's premises and its proper material and technical security. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the unwarranted response to the request of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization of the facts of the sale and purposeless use of non-residential premises in the centre of Dnipropetrovska. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of the President of Ukraine” by the leaders of local self-government and non-reaction by the District Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the non-disclosure of the assets of the former Dubovia sugar plant by the private company “UVS” and the payment of salaries to employees of the company for 2001. MIKOLI POLIZA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister for the violation of human rights to safe life and health, is surrounded by industrial enterprises in the city of Mariupol. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General for giving a citizen a copy of a criminal expert on the death of her son. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the Attorney General for delaying the criminal responsibility of members of the territorial election committee in the elections of the Mukatov City Head. Mr Paul KLUČANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the failure of the Prosecutor's Office in the Odessa region to deal with anti-State policy, which is run by the regional organization of the Alliance. Anatolia Seminoga to the Attorney General in connection with the need to install traffic lights on the street of the Coastal Lugova in Kiev. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of a comprehensive, full and objective investigation into criminal cases involving officials of the Open Shareholders Association Krimhlib, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Property Fund and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, the prosecutor of Kiev for violations of Ukrainian law and abuse of the office of certain prosecutors in Kiev. Mary MARKUSH to the Attorney General, Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the enforcement of decisions. GREGORY GREGORY to the Attorney General, Head of the State Tax Administration, on the violation of effective legislation in the conduct of the business of the private company Krimtel and the non-response to these violations by law enforcement authorities. MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister for the violation of human rights to safe life and health, environment in connection with the opening of the production of ferovanadia at the Zuyev Energy Engineering Plant of the closed-circuit company Technopark of Kiev. Mr. Mikli Tomenka and Mr. Jurija ARTEMENKA to the Head of the Security Service to verify the involvement of representatives of organized criminal groups of the Russian Federation in the activities of the public organization “Russian Club”. OXANI BILOZIR to the Foreign Minister for Diplomatic Representations of Ukraine abroad to immediately submit proposals for the establishment of foreign electoral offices outside diplomatic representations. JOURIA PAULENKA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the presence of monarchs, presidents, prime ministers of the world of persons who, prior to their election or appointment, had criminal convictions. JURIA SIRKA and SERGEY ALEXIUKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the reasons for the holding of training assemblies in the presidential election of military-related military forces under the special assignment unit in the city of Ocaków Mikolai district. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for a formal response to a request for the gravity of a criminal investigation into a traffic accident. Mr Leonida GRAČ to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the citizenship of the wife of candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. John IVANCHA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the allocation of a bus for the transport of children in the Behegiv district of Zakarpatsk, according to the school bus program. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the rehabilitation of the hospital’s station in the village of Spetko, in the district of Sumsk. Anatholic to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the improper response of the authorities to the need to provide citizens with wheelchairs. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the integration of the International North’s work experience into the retirement of citizens who worked there on watch methods. LUKYANENKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the military parade held in Kiev on October 28, 2004. Vladimir NOVACA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the provision of a first - group disabled person with a path to treatment in a sanatorium. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the privatisation of the military aircraft repair plant “Motor” in Lutsk. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the payment of charitable contributions by students at the College of Restaurant Agriculture of the National University of Food Technology. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the retirement of health - care professionals who retired until August 15, 2003. VICTOR OF THE U.S. minister of divorce for emergency situations, for the purpose of allocating funds for the purchase of cleaning equipment and disinfectants for drinking water used in schools and preschool facilities in the Žitomir district. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Ministry of Transport on the problems of transport services for the population of the Upper Rogachin region of the Hersonian region. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics in connection with a violation of the rules governing the leasing of land transferred to private property. Leonida SERGEANTA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to address the issue of compensation for 50 percent of the pay for housing and utilities in 2004 for persons with disabilities during military service. Mr. Vladimir SPIVAČUCA to the Minister of Justice for the muddy and irresponsible treatment of the executive service and administration of the justice system of the Hmelni district to the enforcement of decisions of the court on infringement of citizens’ rights to receive wages. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Minister of Agriculture’s policy to pay off the debt owed to the villagers of the Zastavnov region of Cherniewec for the young man’s dedication to a large cattle of high weight condition. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister of Ukraine on the emergency of obtaining modern medical equipment for the clinics of the family doctor and the field obstetric and obstetric sites of the Žitomir district. LILIA GREGOROVIC to the Minister of Internal Affairs concerning the granting of citizenship to Savoskie Tetjana Alexandrovni. Valentina MATWEYEVA to serve as Head of the National Bank regarding the return of citizen Grinchenk M.V. Savings from its own contribution to our bank's equity commercial bank. Vladimir BONDARENKA and Boris BONDARENKA to the Head of the State Tax Administration, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on Unwarranted Taxation of Apartment Payments for Members of Housing Cooperatives and Mergers of Co-owners of Multiple Houses. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for illegal checks by the tax authorities of the Lithuanian subsidiary in Ukraine, “These Cases” and criminal proceedings against the Director-General of this enterprise. [[A WORKER, TOMENCO, and others. Total 8 deputies]] Mr Tomenka to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the verification of non-execution by employees of the Lvova Tax Police of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations on the provision of unhindered media activities in 2004. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the violation of the rules of procedural law when sentencing the Irpine City Court in the case of a citizen of Golovinsky. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights in connection with the non-professional nature of the judiciary in a criminal case in the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd. Boris BULLY to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the refusal of the pension of a citizen of Nosk. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the misconduct of the Armenian group and the organized criminal group in the Kakhov district of Hersson. Valentina Seminyuk to Kyiv’s city head for an inappropriate response to an appeal regarding the need to protect the housing rights of residents on the street of Salutni, 3 in Kiev. Gennady RUDENKA to the Kiev City Head, head of the Kiev City State Administration regarding the improper sanitary status of the territory and infrastructure of the Osocorca tax-planting array of the Darnicki administrative district of Kiev. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the official request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to the Government of the residing Ukrainian citizens for permission to open electoral offices outside the diplomatic representation of Ukraine, the response of foreign governments to the requested request and to inform diplomatic representatives of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens of their content. [[BILOSIER, BICHOV, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Vassil Red and Sergey ALEXIJUKA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the opening of additional polling stations in a foreign constituency in Moldova, Italy, Portugal, Canada, Greece, Spain, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Russia. Mr. Jury ARTEMENKA to the Head of the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, Head of the General Audit Office for the Return of Overexpenditures Payed by Citizens for Heat Energy. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Director of the Department of State Executive Services regarding the inaction of the State Executive Service of the City of Skadovian Hersonian Region, which prevents the payment of debts to retired teachers of the Antonov High School of the Skadovian Region. Victor KING to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the College of the Ukrainian Security Service on the response to the illegal actions of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Igor Smishka, and his first deputy, Vladimir Sachuka. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region for violating the terms of the lease agreement by the head of the private agricultural company Limanské village of Stokopani in the Herson region and the absence of a response by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the city of Geniceska to the citizens' request. CARMAZIN and other groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council on the status of the People's Deputy. Thus, the honourable colleagues, we have considered today, came up with 76 people’s questions. Including the faction "Our Ukraine" - 39, the factions of Communists - 16, the factions "The Regions of Ukraine" - no, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 3, the factions of the "One Ukraine" - 2, the "National Initiatives" - no, the faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine" - 3, the factions of the People's Agrarian Party of Ukraine - no, the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine - 5, the factions of the bloc of Julia Timoshenko - 6, the "Union" - 2, the factions of the NDP, the PPU, the "Centre" - no. All right, once again, 76 requests. Please, your honors, have informed us who has signed up, and I would like to draw the attention of Gregory Omelchenk to the fact that he is addressing the Head of the Supreme Council on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the statement of mistrust to the Prime Minister. I think you know the Constitution. By March of next year, we have no right to do this with you because the Supreme Council has adopted a program of government activity. Yes, please, we have eight minutes. So let's take 15 away. Taran, follow him, Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u2	Please give me the word of Grigory Omelchenka, Colonel Omelchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u3	Dear Chief, I have a request for you. I'd like to unify two performances in one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u4	So far, you've got three minutes to talk. It'll come to the fourth, we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u5	The constituency of Julia Timoshenko, the Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the Association of Officers of Ukraine, Gregory Omelchenko. My first address will be to our fellow countrymen and radio listeners, those who listen and watch. To continue yesterday's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and when the head of the commission of inquiry gave information, Vladimir Sovkovic, where the information was not from the commission, this information was not even written by Sovkovic himself. He just read what he was told. At the hearing of the commission of inquiry, we were not even given the text of his speech. It's a shame that yesterday, none of the TV and radio stations showed or heard from Alexander Zinchenko, who read the findings that came from the Vienna hospital. So I have to do it again. "We, the practitioners listed below, ask for permission from Victor Yushchenk to seek help from certain international organizations because we have concluded that clinical symptoms and the flow of a series of diseases do not correspond to the passing of diseases known in civil medicine. We have come to the clear conclusion that Yashchenk’s disease is going on in an unusual way, giving reason to talk about the suspicion of using biological weapons. As a result of the above situation, we urgently need the help of specialists in the field of warfare and biological weapons. I would like to stress that the clinical course of the disease at this point indicates the suspicion of the use of specific substances that are usually part of biological weapons. We ask your permission, Mr. Yushchenka, to receive immediate assistance." This letter was signed by the directors of the clinic. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Later, organizers, customers, and direct contractors will be installed who used this biological weapon against Victor Yushchenk. Today we can talk about one thing: criminal mafia power in agony, it throws away anything to prevent President Viktor Yushchenko's election, because his victory is their bench of defendants, and for many it will be a joy to find where Victor Yushchenko spoke from this rostrum of the Ministry of Internal Affairs' leadership, but, in fact, they are facing a severe criminal punishment for crimes committed. And criminals will be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u6	Yes, please, three more minutes of Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u7	Dear friends! Two factions -- SDPU and the faction of "Regions" came to me to apologize for the past crimes and crimes committed by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. I'd be delighted to apologize to the Ukrainian people if I'd committed these crimes and run for office. I did not commit the crimes that Victor Fedorovich Janukovic committed. By the time Victor Fedorovich had a second walk into the zone, and in the zone of the enhanced regime, I had my arms in my hands to protect the Motherland. We, the officers who in their time were carrying out international duties, the number of hot spots, and we know what the loss of military friends is, the honor of an officer, even in a terrible dream, could not dream that a former criminal rabbit that did not go through military service, but has a military rank as a reserve major and falls into darkness from a dropped egg, could be the Supreme Commander in Chief, the President of Ukraine. Mr. Janukovic, I'll tell you this in your eyes. I have no objection to you personally, but you claim the highest position in the state. What an abyss of immorality and lawlessness it took to bring forth and support the criminal criminal in the past as the only candidate for the presidency of today’s power! At the same time, respectable fellow countrymen are not surprising. Whom could this mafia-corruption, clan-oligarchy government put up, rather than a former criminal rabbit? Mr. Janukovic, judging from your statements, you are a believing man, but you have forgotten one Bible truth: "God is powerless--God is in the truth," as your priest-priest told you before his death, which will end your journey to Kiev. Remember what the priest told you so that I wouldn’t remind you of it. Mr. Janukovic, you, like President Kuchma, are governed by animal fear of being held responsible for crimes committed by a criminal regime against your own people. Like Kuchma, you are living an instinct of self-preservation without thinking about the future of the Ukrainian people! You will have to answer for all the crimes committed before the Ukrainian people. And to the end. Mr. Janukovic, think about what you're pushing the officer's corps to do by agreeing to the job. Do you think we're going to let a former criminal run us? Think about it, Mr. Yanukovich! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, here asked why Omelchenko gave two talks. The point is that he was given the word and it was written down by the third, so that everything is in line with the Rules. Yes, I can't see Onopenko. Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Behind him, Cibenko. Matthew conveys the word of Gmiri. Please. Matthew is present.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Communist Party of Ukraine has always fought consistently and will fight for granting the status of the second State to the Russian language. This is one of our fundamental policy requirements. And at first, I was deeply pleased to learn about Victor Fedorović Janukovic's pre-election statements that this issue should be addressed. But as a mere man, I began to understand. And what conclusions did I come to? It turns out that in Victor Fedorovic's electoral programme, his main document does not refer to the granting of the status of the second State or even the official Russian language. Moreover, I believe that the Government has drafted a bill under which the status of the Russian language is not only increasing but decreasing. Colleagues! There's some kind of win-winning lottery coming up. For the East, Victor Fedorovic is receiving oral promises of State status in the Russian language from one pocket. For the West, Victor Fedorovich gets his software statements, official documents, from another pocket. And you know, no one knows that Yanukovic will get "out of the broad pants" and show the people if he becomes president. I know that in a lossless lottery, the naive people who agree to play it usually lose. You know, it's just one. One example of Janukovic’s incoherence. He's always talking about pulling troops out of Iraq step-by-step, and I'm looking at a flyer that's hanging. A letter calling for rapid response and, most interestingly, there is not a word on the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Directly, people are called upon to join international forces in the territory of still sovereign Ukraine or supposedly sovereign Ukraine. I'm taking care of the results. You know, our people have pluralism of opinion. A literate similarist, Lev Zadov, in his own time, said that there could be no conflict in every promise. Remember, I'm Lev Zadov, don't lie to me. Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, professor, doctor of science apparently disagrees with Lv Zadov in this regard. That's why I'm offering Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic, let him go through three f professors and two o's, but you can't promise the opposite. If he makes such slogans out of ignorance, let him take the inscription "Because Consequential" out of his bigboards. And if he's just being evil, then let him take off the sign from the other bigboards, saying, "I'm not chasing an empty hole." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Here some pointed out that there was no Matthew; I passed on the word. There is Matthew, not Valentin Grigorovitch, to whom everyone is accustomed, but Vladimir Josephovich. Show yourself, Vladimir Josephovich. The word has been given to the national representative of Cibenko. After him, Tomenko. Cibenko gives the word “Puzakov. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The main event, in addition to the terrible poisoning of the presidential candidate and the key pear movement of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was a statement by the Prime Minister, a successful presidential candidate to increase the minimum pension to a minimum of living. But there was no expectation that 72 percent of the voters surveyed believed that the increase in salaries for scholarships and pensions budgeted was a pre-election trick aimed at increasing the popularity of the candidate. And only 13 percent said it was a matter of concern to the government about the growing welfare of citizens. The Communist faction led by its presidential leader Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko constantly demanded that the government address this extremely painful and acute social problem. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko repeatedly says that veterans, pensioners, disabled persons have earned a far greater pension than the one the government has laid down as a bribe before the elections. His pre-election program says that the minimum pension should be almost 800 dollars. And when the Communists demanded an immediate solution to the problem, the government replied: “There is no money. ” And funds were found for the candidate in power. During the month, radio, television, and press sound that the problem of a decent pensioner is solved. It's all formal. No decision was made. It's not a pension revaluation, it's just a living allowance. And the supplement, and the Cabinet of Ministers, it's not reliable: I want to give, I want to take. Remember when Lazarenko paid a pension in Dnipropetrovska during the election campaign, and the day after the election, she disappeared like a morning mist. The pension gap has not turned out to be a real blow to everyone. I don't mind raising the pension, because people made it, that's what I've pointed out. But I have complaints, why did they make a comparison? There are pensioners who got 280 dollars at the time, and 290 dollars, so why don't they get 150-160 dollars more? And because, again, I'm saying, it's not a pension routing, it's just another trick. Believe it or not, the 2005 draft budget does not provide funds for regular pension payments, and therefore there is no guarantee that they will continue after the elections. Even for this year’s payments, the government found only 2.9 billion dollars instead of 3.3 billion. And you have to know how to get in and out of the water. Although the antinational authorities of Ukraine do so very often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u12	Tomenko gives the word Pinzenic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u13	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine" draws attention to the critical situation in the Ukrainian education system. This year's Knowledge Day, our educators met with the level of wage that is in the last place in the budget area. Below them are Ukrainian doctors. Not only does today’s government not see the problems but it also plans to take steps to further the decline in the educational sector. The budget for the following year, with an average wage increase of 20 per cent in the budget area, is only 10.5 per cent, which is the 34 per cent increase in the income of the budget. Under such circumstances, the pay gap will not simply increase. As the price rises, the real wage of teachers, other budget workers, will be lower than the current level of income. Victor Yushchenka's block insists that, in preparing the budget for the first reading, there will be a pre-eminent increase in salary in the budget area as compared to an increase in average earnings in Ukraine and an increase in overall budget expenditure. This task must be provided for next year's draft budget to be implemented. First. Increase the minimum wage to 300 dollars per month. The other one. Raising all salaries and extending their range to promote the prestige of teachers, doctors, and other budget workers. Third. The introduction of article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act and the payment of the restructured part of the debt under this article. Four. An increase in the share of local budgets to perform these tasks. Such steps are within the reach of budget resources next year. Dear national MPs, dear fellow countrymen. This year's draft budget confirms that neither the teacher nor the doctor nor the staff of other spheres is needed by today's government. But we hope that the understanding of education and other budgetary problems is with the national deputies of Ukraine. And their solutions will be included in the budget next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, we've run out of time. I'm sorry, I didn't see, there were two other MPs here. Let me make an announcement. Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime at the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General on the examination of the facts of improper criminal investigation number 9118, violated by the abuse of power and the excess of power, the purposeless use of budgetary resources, the decommissioning of particularly large-scale heads of the Luhansk District Authority. the district administration of Rybinini, solving the issue of their dismissal from their positions and bringing them to justice. And the request of a group of national deputies, including Karmazin, to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Attorney-General for the use of measures to stop the persecution of the head of the Department of Law Enforcement by special departments and other institutions that combat the organized criminality of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Shevchuk, by the chiefs of the Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and to bring the perpetrators to justice. Thus, the requests and speeches of the people’s deputies were completed. A statement came from the "Ukraine" and "Urban Ukraine" regions demanding a recess. So we're probably going to shorten the time. And who's the faction? Zubanov, please. The word has the national deputy Zubanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u15	Vladimir Zubanov, faction of Ukraine. I'm talking to those who tried to overthrow Yanukovich Viktor Fedorovich. Honor, conscience and dignity are innate human qualities. And officer pursuits won't save our colleague today if he doesn't have those qualities. Yanukovic will win because the people are after him. Now let's make a statement. Statement by Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the permanent parliamentary majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. "The People's Deputies of Ukraine, members of the permanent parliamentary majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth vocation, aware of the full responsibility of the Ukrainian people, are strongly protesting the de facto transformation of the country's single legislative body into a political rostrum, where often-difficult pre-election technologies are working. With pain and anxiety, we state that today the Parliament and Parliamentarianism of Ukraine is experiencing the most disgraceful and humiliating situation in its history. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has no doubt become a place for the proclamation of low-ranking agitators, the rush written by polytechnologists, the city of glamour, the embezzlement of honor and the dignity of power, the place of slander, and, sadly, outright lies. All of this has been the main reason for the refusal of parliamentary factions and groups, members of the parliamentary majority, to vote. In this step, the parliamentary majority stated that it disagreed with this practice of using the Supreme Council. We had hoped to awaken our conscience or at least our common sense in those political forces that were dragging the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a chasm. Sadly, nothing like this has happened. We are strongly protesting violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where the powers of the legislative body and the order of its work are clearly prescribed. The standard is clear and clear - the speaker should speak only out of question. From which he was given the word. And it's provided by the same rule, it's given guidance, and it's given a whole range of tools. However, it is enough to review the transcript of the session to make sure that extremism and brutality of the well-known political forces do not receive any decent opposition from the chairman. We do not want to think that a similar state of affairs has become a conscious choice for Parliament’s leadership. Both the national deputies and the leadership of the Supreme Council must assume responsibility for the shameful role that parliamentary opposition imposed upon them. That's why we're making a call about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u16	Thank you. Yes, put your hands down, please. Finish 'cause they can't hear you anyway. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, calm down! There will be no reply because you exchanged lines. I remind all the national MPs once again: Replicables can be exchanged once. You hit someone, you said. After that, the lines are finished. And they weren't called. Don't make any noise. There's a lot of you, and I'm the only one, don't make any noise. Sign up for three minutes, please. Please light up. Martinenko, follow him to Colonyari.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u17	Give the word to Zarubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u18	Please, the Zarubin microphone. Colonies after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, first of all, I don't think it's right to blame the Supreme Council for anything when it's gone. Morality is moral. That's the first one. One second. When someone signs something, people need to see it. I state absolutely officially that this text was not written in Parliament, but brought from Parliament, and the faction leaders allowed it to be signed, who wanted it, who didn't want it, but forced it. As for our faction, we discussed the issues of participation in the work of the Supreme Council. We are going to give up the work of the Supreme Council because we consider Parliament an extremely important institution of state authority. And that's why I'd like to tell the authors who didn't write it here in the session hall, because it's not the national MPs, to say that at least in the majority that doesn't exist anymore, which was created by Prime Minister Kinahu in September 2002, membership was individual. Clearly, then, such claims require individual signature, not just by factional leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u20	Please, Coloniari. After him, Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u21	Colonyari, 56th District, Mariupol City Adam Ivanovich, I want our voters to hear that everything that is not good for them by our candidate, the Prime Minister, and the Party of Regions, and by the majority in Parliament, is faced with a ghastly rejection of opposition, both left and right. I'm just amazed at the statements of the Communists who are playing right-wing opposition today. Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic is the most worthy candidate. And he'll win, and they'll have to be sure of it, and they'll be sure of it. Therefore, there is no need for a political club to be established here in Parliament and for the same communists and the same right-wing opposition to lay their heads on ashes. It's gone history, their attempt to change the situation in the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u22	Please, Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u23	Please pass on the word to Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u24	Please, it's Sergei Gmiri's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u25	I'm talking about contradictions again. Dear colleagues! Agree that if, as the distinguished colleague has stated in his statement, the parliamentary majority of the permanent vote is refused, yet laws are passed, there is no parliamentary majority, and let them speak frankly. And second. With regard to the frank attempts to disperse the Parliament that is taking place today. Well, Stanka Razin of Nazbank is calling for rebellion, for example, when he says that Parliament would not be bad to dissolve. He provokes the President to commit illegal acts. What's happening right now is an attempt at an anti-constitutional coup. There is legislation in Ukraine, and I understand that colleagues enjoy immunity and that the head of the pre-election headquarters of Viktor Yanukovic does not enjoy it. Where the Attorney General's office is, I have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u26	Yes, dear colleagues, we will move on to the realization of the order of the day. The only thing I want to say. A person with a conscience may well confirm that a sin is to complain against the presiding officers. Including the one who is in session today and the one who is absent today. We've done everything, done everything, and done everything in order for Parliament to work first, secondly, to work in accordance with the laws and regulations. And he sees, as they say, God and witnesses and voters, that we are trying to do this and we will do it. So if you need to make a statement, look for more powerful and convincing arguments, do not lose your head to a healthy one. I apologize for being responsible for the absence of the Head of the Supreme Council, but that's in reality. So let's get this over with, dear fellows, we're done with the exchange. [[The voice from the hall. DO NOT HEAR]] I started our session today. [[N o M e s s a ……]] I started our session today from exactly how many laws we passed. The draft Law on the Concept of State Culture Policy 2004-2006 is being complied with. Registration number 5565. Reported to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality's Subcommittee on Cloaking and Mironenko Valery Havrilovna. I think beauty will save peace and parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear friends! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality presents to you the draft concept of public cultural policy for the next three years. The bill was prepared by the efforts of committee members, the efforts of the public council in committee, the expert group and discussed at numerous seminars, conferences, including international meetings. Why did the committee initiate such a bill? More than three hundred laws and regulations already adopted by the Supreme Council regulate the sphere of culture. The draft Culture Act is awaiting consideration and discussion, and attempts are being made to establish a Culture Code. At the same time, there is no systematic approach to the development of the cultural sector, its direct link with economic and social development. The many questions that society is asking us today must be answered with clarity and clarity. Through the proposed document, we want to lay the foundations for the next three years for a qualitatively new level of understanding, formation and implementation of cultural policy. The concept of public cultural policy analyses the problematic aspects of the current situation in Ukraine, defines the goals, principles and mechanisms of public cultural policy in the near future. It is culture that today is the field where Ukraine looks most attractive to the world. The Committee proposes the adoption of the bill as a whole, taking only one thing into account. As the year 2004 is ending, the year 2005 and 2007 will be replaced for the transcript, respectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u28	Thank you, Valery Gabriel. You've saved us a lot of time. Please, can I ask you a question? Yes. Please sign up. Yes, please show me on the board. Let's take five minutes. Karmazin, follow by Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u29	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, I listened to you very carefully. Please tell me, do you not think that this concept should include how we should promote in the State the love of the state and the true values of those of whom Gregory Omelchenko spoke today? With the fact that a previously convicted person has been convicted twice, then twice the person on whom criminal cases have been committed can then claim the highest position in the state. And did you know that you're so drawn to a foreign culture that 26 numbers are all bought abroad? Maybe that's why most of them aren't in the hall today, they can't hear you, they want to get out of the country. How do you figure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u30	My dear, thank you. You know, I didn't specifically say a word here, so I don't have to challenge any of the political options about the issue that you're having today. I think that the questions that you ask about honor and dignity, first of all, are put by your father and mother when you're a child and then gradually grow them like flowers to make them beautiful and noble. That's why I think it's not in this concept, it's in a person's soul at birth. And this is, first of all, Dad and Mom. I don't know which parents are going to depend on them. But in that concept, I think there are good things involved. For example, if we also have our children, the Restetilovka with its embroidery and tapestry, we need to protect it. If we have a petrickian giant rose, it must be preserved. If we have an Description where a unique ceramic is made, we need to keep it. And this is our conscience, this is our honor, and this is our face, and this is our children, and we need to keep them. And I think through this concept we can, again, have an opportunity to participate in this somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u31	Please, Kalinczuk, follow Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The concept of State policy in the field of culture should certainly be what it should be for other areas. But I do have a question for you, Reverend Valery Gabrielna. You said and corrected that this concept is planned for 2005-2007, that's how I understood it. At the same time, we write that the concept is that the main objectives of public policy in the field of culture are to develop the doctrine of cultural development and the concept of long-term public policy in the field of culture. So doesn't it seem like we're preparing a concept? Maybe a long-term concept will work? That's the first question. And the second question. What is foreseen for rural culture? Because the village is the cradle of our nation, and especially the rituals and customs, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u33	I thank you. We propose that, since the document has been prepared for a long time, the deadlines for writing are from 2004 to 2006. Therefore, since the year is ending, we have failed and so late, so all of these are moving completely, and all of these numbers are moving on all the lists. For the area of the village, it will be more specific because we have a problematic analysis of Ukraine's present state in both the village and the city. It does exist. This analysis is done. There are forward-looking plans for development, but they can only be linked naturally after the Cabinet of Ministers will help us, and will also be tense at least to the first, because we need to set service standards at least for the people in the independence of the village this or the city. This definition of standards should be addressed by the Cabinet of Ministers and, let's say, define a financial standard for each individual. Then we can decide both agriculture and urban how to do so. We also need the Cabinet of Ministers to establish a programme for the preservation and preservation of cultural monuments, and everything. We can talk today about the country clubs being broken. But we need to get there. So this is where you have to put the repairs and the restoration of rural clubs, rural schools, rural activities, libraries. This is where we put it. But I've outlined it in a nutshell. But all of this has been worked out in detail, and all of this has to do with it. Because without that, we don't even have the sense to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u34	But I already announced Melniczuk. Please, Melniczuk, one more question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u35	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Your Honor, you've certainly been responsible for the village. But as for you, a man who knows not only Ukraine, but in the world, I want to report that 70 to 80 percent of rural cultural institutions have been destroyed by today. And that 20 percent, there's just no one to go to work there. But I want to point out the following. Please tell me in your draft law why a standard like eight percent of GDP was once directed or less, 6-7 percent, GDP was sent to culture. It is no longer in your law, nor is it established. Tell me about it. Is it correct that the government has so far allocated 0.3-0.4 percent per culture in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u36	Thank you. That's unquestionably incorrect. Because the standard of eight per cent for culture was laid down in the Culture Act, which was signed by Leonid Kravchuk. There was eight of them. Gradually, this figure declined, decreased. Now she's completely gone. But now we're writing a new law on culture in which we're going to make these interest rates, and there's no way to put numbers here. Therefore, it does not require any money for its existence. We are simply asking that we develop an attitude towards culture. And I don't think that's what these numbers are. This will have to be introduced into the Culture Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u37	Thank you, Valery Gabriel. Yeah, let's get down to business. Yeah, let's take 15 minutes. Please, Puzakov, follow him Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u38	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In studying the Law on the Concept of State Policy on Culture, we cannot help but note that the discussion of the problem was exactly 20 years late — that is, the start of a developing state. And now it's like some alimony father who owes to his kid, and now he wants to buy back from her. Culture is the kind of material and spiritual wealth created by humanity that serves to further develop, to multiply the built-up, creative capacities, the abilities of society and personality, or, in other words, economic, social, political progress. Culture is life. What culture is that of life. That is what the empirical approach to mankind’s life is for us to define. For example, the dawn of the human civilization of Ancient Greece reached such a cultural level that it gave impetus to all mankind for many centuries. Byzantine culture contributed to the cultural development of ancient Russia, and the Renaissance of the 16th century. At last, the classic example of Japan in the 45th century, which has experienced the final test, the suffering country collects the last material scraps and puts into nothing but culture. And that's the concept of restoring the state and bringing Japan to the world itself. And is it not an example for Ukraine? So we see that it's culture that brings out all the other areas of material wealth. In the end, people are shaped by culture. It's going to be different, because the word "culture" in Latin means "care, education, development, respect." That our culture is in the worst condition, we shouldn't even talk about it, it's an axiom. Take a look at what surrounds us, and consider that our people are watching TV, reading, and our young people are being brought up. On the other hand, the ethics of the people, their morals, are changing. The spirituality of culture is a deficit today and leads to the degradation of the same nation. There is no future. But we were offered a better life, so-called "remodeling" in quotes. And where did it start? From alcoholic monopolies all over the country, from pornography, where it can be exhibited, and from what our people actively degrade, it is already an axiom. But I wanted to ask those who acquired it: From whom would you raise the capital if you were destroying the people? And it is a terrible conclusion that the authorities also deteriorate, not only spiritually but intellectually. So culture is the horse that pulls the car. On the other hand, we've got a horse in the back of the car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u39	The word is given by the national MP Mironenko, followed by Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u40	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The concept of cultural development is extremely important to the people of Ukraine, and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine calls on all deputies to support the bill. Representatives of the ruling oligarchs have all seen, including with regard to culture, that today they have called for an end to the broadcasts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that during the consideration of the bills they should not mention the position of candidates to the Presidents, because these ruling oligarchs do not want the people to know the truth, the position of each candidate with regard to the bills adopted, and as every faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine votes. They don't want to know the oligarchs and the truth about culture. Dear fellow countrymen, I think it is clear to all that the ruling oligarchs will continue all the same cultural policies that they have pursued and will continue in the event of a victory. And the only way to stop the destruction of a culture, a cultural decline that no one can deny, no honest representative of any faction in the Supreme Council, is to ensure that culture is lifted up -- I think it's honest labourers who agree, comparing what was in the socialist direction and now, the only opportunity is to be elected by President Petr Nikolaevich Simonenka. Well, notice, in everything, it's literally a decline, in everything. Well, you don't have to talk about the wages of cultural workers. Well, here we're told, "This is the spirituality that's gone up." So it's a wild, unconscionable lie! And when we talk about culture, we assume that it's a set of material and spiritual values accumulated by humanity. And in this case, we are considering, above all, spiritual values, and the same church is just a tiny part of spiritual culture. And we see that there are passersby, oligarchs, crusaders, and they say they believe in God. Although the same bankers, the same banker who is now in the hall and will again bear the Company as he lied about the benefits, the Company advocated that the benefits be abolished to officials, deputies and so on and voted. But he's constantly disappearing, and now he's going to try to speak out, because he needs a further policy that's stifling culture. And if we believe in the media -- television, radio, newspapers -- that belong to the oligarchs, we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u41	You see, you have a watch in front of you, in the stands. Don't look the other way. The word has been given to the national MP, Novak. After him, Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, I remind you again. I see some of you are looking at the board. There's a clock on the stand that's counting your time, so you can navigate through that clock. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u42	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the law under discussion provides for the approval of the concept of public policy in the field of culture for 2004-2006. After learning about the document, I would like to point out that the concept contains many positive works, practical implications. The practical application of which could lead to a positive change in culture. And the fact that we are experiencing a real crisis in this queen of social life today, I think everyone understands. It would seem that everything should be fine, because the budget for culture and art is increasing every year, but look at our theaters, they're living. In 12 years of independence, no new facilities have been built, and those that are are destroyed. What is the state of our museums? The premises are being destroyed, the exhibits are being looted, and the experts are looking for work to feed their families somehow. And the house of culture, clubs, libraries? Poverty and complete depravity! Some libraries that have been in emergency rooms for years have no new arrivals. There is nothing to sign periodicals for. We are the only country in Europe, or perhaps in the world, where state men have shown great wisdom by transferring cultural workers to a quarter or half of the stakes. I've never seen a minister of culture or vice-premier in my life who knows about culture that works for a quarter or a half of a bet, and a simple person can do that. There is also a need to feed and clothe the family on these pedestals. And the depravity, the rudeness, the homage that is still on TV today! Take a look at the television program. On Sundays, you will not see the film of a native, just American fighters who promote cruelty and violence! As you can see, we are in a terrible state of culture. That is why public policy in the field of culture should have its own concept, but I would like to pay attention to one more moment. The concept must come true. It must be clearly defined and recognized at the level of the country - culture in Ukraine is in crisis, and today’s authorities are not taking real steps to overcome this crisis. Today’s authorities are not immune to culture, for it is easier to keep in subjection to the slain, engrossed, uneducated, illiterate person — the slave’s man! That is why I doubt that this concept of authority will be fulfilled. We Communists are our leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, in whom we emphasize that we need an honest authority that respects and serves our people by faith and truth. People, you have this choice, don't be fooled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u43	Please, Yavorowski. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkwa, head of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers Dear colleagues! Dear voters! With such an opportunity, I would like to say from this supreme tribune in our country that we, the Ukrainian people, have a unique and wonderful culture of multi-century, deep and self-restraint. I would like to emphasize that perhaps another culture of any other people, I'm not exaggerating anything, in such terrible, anti-cultural conditions, without my own state, would have long since been forgotten and would have been mentioned as some sort of distant historical rarities. But Ukrainian culture is, it exists. And I have to say. That if she survived and actually survived a period of underdeveloped bushmushma, she would live much longer. In time, historians will be amazed at how Ukrainian culture could survive with such leaders and with such a level of culture. Let us at least take our Prime Minister, who, speaking, calls the Ukrainian composer “Gulak Artemowski”. I understand it's "Artemonic" champagne and it's kind of closer to that. I understand very well that Ukrainian culture in the event of Janukovic's victory is going to develop at the Vladimir Center level, it's going to be completely understandable, and that's going to be the development of Ukrainian culture. I understand very well that Ukrainian culture is now perceived by the current President only on a level, but at the level of the Bayanist Tobacco and several other Russian singers. [[I don't mind the craftsmanship of this composer. Don't catch me.]] It's a reality. I can't tell from this rostrum not to say that the Palace of Culture today is it, the Director General of the Palace of Culture and the Managing Officer, is Igor Bakay with an enormous level of culture man, you know that. But it is understandable why it is not possible for a Ukrainian singer or an Ukrainian actor to break through. There is a Russian pops that comes out of Ukraine with a colossal amount of money, and it is also a reality. You'll see what the government's setting up next year: they're betting about 20 million dollars on the entire Ukrainian cinema. John Gabrieluk, I'm sorry, there's not enough right now, let's just say it's not enough for one movie. You see, the creative communities are as national as they stood out 10 years ago, and now there's about 4 million pitiful with copies, that's in inflation, that's about 800,000 for the national writers' association, half of them going to the Chewchensk festival. How can this all survive today, please? And you're talking about pensions there being raised, that's a huge budget. That's where culture is! Because of that. I'm done. We don't have an elite that has money and helps culture. Swift said a brilliant phrase.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u45	The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u46	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! Dear Ukrainian people! Just after trying to compromise Parliament's leadership, which has just become democratic and supports its own people, these factions -- the regionalists, the SDPU -- have pulled the cards out of the hall, gone out of the room, there are also no cards of the "Trug Ukraine" faction, they think they can block and tear down the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a scenario written in a dungeon by the President's Administration. And that's why a part of the majority published, said that this wasn't a scenario, this document in most people who read it today. Now the preceding, very talented writer and politician Vladimir Yavorowski told you about the culture that would be, and I want to tell you that the remainder of that culture we saw with you, we saw you in pavilion number 56, where on the day of the President's Administration, where 800 tons of poison was stored, 70 million copies of colossal, where the Administration, which clearly printed the newspaper "KPRS," was printed there. Ten million circulations were there at the declared hundredths. And there's no criminal case, there's no criminal money laundering. Another colleague of ours, Gregory Bondarenko, posted the number 13 health pavilion on the VDNH Office of Affairs, which is his service room, although he was elected in the Kyiv region, a service room of several thousand meters. What was stored there? They wouldn't let us in. During his tour of the premises, Nestor Schufrich injured a member of the committee, a member of the Committee on Organized Crime and Corruption, Paul Stepanovich Barnadyski, who is currently in the hospital. Why? Because they didn't want to show it either, except for what they called for civil war, this culture. I'm showing you to all the Ukrainian people that they are, and now they're throwing it in the hall, this is a healthy culture from Yanukovic, this is a lying, shameful anecdote about Yushchenka. That's why I wish it wasn't all there. I have a very serious view of the concept. I think it should be accepted, but what is the preforming of the Ukrainian nation, what is irreversible entropy, what is the fertile national identity, and so on and so forth? Ladies and gentlemen, we must work hard, but we must accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. 15 minutes, we're done. Now, please, I'll listen to the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. The first deputy minister of culture, Novohatko, has the floor. Then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You can see that the concept is introduced by a group of distinguished national MPs who have been working in culture for all ages: this is Joulinsky, Tanjuk, Mokchan, Kosov and so on. So the concept, in our view, can be adopted in the first reading. Basically, the word "conception," you understand what documents are, you can add something, and it's an eternal conversation. As for the first page, I would like to record for the transcript because Valérie Gabrielne said in general that I would like to move the numbers for a year. In the second paragraph, I want to repeat for the transcript before July 1st, 2006. That's how I understood Valerie Gabriel. And in the second paragraph of this same thing, until January 1, 2006, we need to change. And in the first reading, I think you can accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u49	Thank you. Yes, from the procedure, please, Nikolayenko, Chernevski. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u50	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable drafters of the bill, honourable voters! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine at its meeting discussed the basics of legislation, the concept of culture, and believed that it could in principle be adopted in some way. We are deeply, socialists, convinced that the basis of today's crisis in Ukraine is the moral and spiritual crisis, the first task of which is to overcome any political power, any authority. And that's what our Alexander Alexander Moroz, our moral authority, has repeatedly emphasized. But what I'd like to say is that I wouldn't give up the question of setting a percentage of funding on the domestic gross product or on the cultural budget. It would be the kind of orientation that would actually allow us to finance culture more stablely than it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u51	Czernovecki microphone. Fix the card. It's working, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. Our Ukraine faction, Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetski. I want to say that before we vote, a very important part of the procedure is to welcome the most beautiful and the largest star of cinema and theatre, Valeria Lockdown. I've never seen a more beautiful woman in my life. And let's do it all right. And then give me the opportunity to go to my place to vote because this law is important. And it's good that he's being introduced by such a remarkable cultural figure, and most of all, he's such a beautiful and amazing woman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u53	Dear colleagues. Lukyanenko, please, microphone, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u54	Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko’s block Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies. This concept, of course, needs serious work. But I'd like to vote for it, because at least it's going to put our culture at a new level. As a result, for 12 years, Ukrainian culture has been ruled by oligarchs who do not know the culture has never been known. They did not respect her and never respect her. That led culture to the lowest level, to destruction. What we have for 12 to 13 years is the total destruction of the basics of Ukrainian national culture. And they, with huge funds, supported not this, but spread anticulture in its most disgusting forms -- through television, through radio, and in any other way. So this concept, at least a little bit, will stop that process of destroying national culture and give it an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. The draft Law on the Concept of State Culture Policy 2005-2007 is on the vote. Registration number 5565. Please vote. [[11:22:40]] For 260 Dear colleagues, I think this is a decent answer to a statement recently made here by those who wanted to disrupt the work of our Supreme Council. The factions, please. I'm reading pros. “Our Ukraine” - 99, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 15, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 8, “Centre” - 15, “NDP” - 13, “Deminicatives” - 0, “Postfaction - 12. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're not. There is a proposal from the committee to vote as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the bill on the concept of state policy in the field of culture, 2005-2007, registration number 5565. Please vote. [[11:24:14]] For 251 Act adopted, 251. The factions. “Our Ukraine” - 92, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 58, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 0, “Ukrainian One” - 8, “Centre” - 14, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 13, “Democratic Initiatives” - 0, “Afterfractional” - 7. Dear colleagues, I don't understand which procedure. We've already voted. Now there'll be another law, then you'll say. Dear colleagues, I repeat: we have kept everything. I don't see the need and the opportunity to give you. The Act on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine is announced in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine. Registration number 5465. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Interior, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich. Prepare the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill is prepared in accordance with paragraph 3 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine with a view to bringing legislative acts into line with this law. The draft legislation is designed to systematize national legislation, bring its terminology and regulations into line with the objective of continuing to improve and adapt Ukraine's legislation to the area of population accounting according to the residence and practice of the countries of the European Union. Ukraine’s draft law provides for appropriate amendments to 68 Ukrainian laws, which have to do with the system of settlement. The intended changes relate primarily to concepts such as "pension", "place of temporary and permanent residence". Therefore, in all the acts included in the bill, the term “proprietary” is replaced by “registration” and the term “permanent residence” and “temporary residence” are replaced by “place of residence and place of residence”. That is, in valid legislation, these terms are consistent with the article of the second Ukrainian Act on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, based on a certain administrative and territorial unit, i.e. more than six months per year, or less than six months per year. I would like to point out that significant changes have been made to part of article 29 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which defines the place of residence of the individual. The Civil Code reads as a place of residence for a person, an apartment, another room suitable for living in a suitable place where a person resides permanently, usually or temporarily. [[i.e. dormitory, hotel, etc.]] Article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine defines the place of residence as an administrative and territorial unit in which a person resides for more than 6 months a year. Thus, part 1 of article 29 of the Civil Code is contained in the proposed bill as follows: "A person's place of residence is understood to be his place of residence, a place of residence registered under the law." In addition, the bill provides for changes to parts 2 and 3 of this article regarding the age from which a person is entitled to freely choose his or her place of residence. Since article 6 of the law “On freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine” refers to the age from which a person can apply for registration of his or her place of residence, that is, freely choose his or her place of residence, as defined as 15 years, and therefore the relevant amendments are proposed to the Civil Code of Ukraine. I mean, you can see that it's about law enforcement in connection with the introduction of an institution such as the registration of individuals. The Supreme Council's chief scientific and expert office has fully supported this bill, so I ask that it be supported immediately in general, so that it will be possible. the application of valid acts and continue to work to improve legislation in various fields. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u57	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. No, there's no questions, because it's a reduced procedure. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Udovenko Hennady Josephovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The rapporteur on the issue under discussion, Mikhail Vasilovich Korniyenko, detailed the need to amend some Ukrainian legislation related to the Ukrainian law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine. In particular, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has done extensive work to bring legislation into line with the law. This is evidenced by the proposals to amend 68 legislations in Ukraine. It should also be noted that in Ukraine there is a new edition of the Civil Society Act, which contributes to the formation of an institution of citizenship in our country. Ukraine’s first real passport, with over 44 million domestic and 6.5 million foreign passports, has been issued. The question of bringing citizens to European standards was therefore perfectly legitimate. This issue is particularly relevant at the time of the presidential election campaign. There may be problems with the exercise of electoral rights in citizens who do not have a passport to register a place of residence or a place of residence or live and who do not work at the place of registration. Thus, the urgent need to bring Ukraine’s legislative acts into line with the law is undeniable. On June 2, this year, the committee reviewed the draft law under discussion. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt this law. The main scientific and expert office fully supports the bill. I refer to the factions that boycott the meetings, particularly the factions of the "Ukraine Region", the "Trubic Ukraine", the "SPPU". I remind you that this bill has been introduced and signed personally by your patron, Prime Minister of Ukraine Yanukovic. [[100 pages]] Shame on you if you don't vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? You don't? Nobody insists? Then I would like to ask you to support the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine, registration number 5465, please vote. [[11:32:13]] For 226 Decision taken. Since the law is practically technical in nature, it makes the laws in relation to the adoption of another law appropriate, it was suggested that it should be accepted as a law in general. Is there no objection? Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine, registration number 5465. Vote! [[11:33:05]] For 231 The law is passed, thank you. A bill of the Law is being obeyed. By factions, please: “Our Ukraine” - 89, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 55, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 14, SPU - 19, Timoshenko - 15, “Union” - 0, “Ukrainian One” - 3, “Centre” - 13, “NDP” - 14, “Deminiciatives” - 1, “Frequency 8. The question is: draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the violation of the banking secret]] We have two bills: 3550 and 3432. According to Bill 3550, National MP Longi Taras Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that I have tabled and proposed for your attention is to increase the responsibility for illegal gathering with a view to the use of information that constitutes a bank secret and the disclosure of the Bank's secret through the consolidation in the Criminal Code of Ukraine of a new component of crime. Yes, the bill provides for amendments to articles 231 and 232 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which today is merely responsible for the disclosure of a commercial secret. I want to point out that the envisaged sanctions will not only be for the benefit of the banks, but also for the customers, and actually for the investors. From a brief list of information that's a bank secret, I want to remind you, it's also a bank security system, and a customer's financial and economic situation, and customer accounts, correspondence accounts, and so on. Today, under market economy conditions and fierce competition in the market for goods and services of bank secrecy, can have negative consequences for banks and their customers. In turn, the trend in extending the circle of persons who are exposed to banking secrecy in accordance with article 62 of the Banking and Banking Act requires criminal responsibility for its disclosure. The establishment of criminal responsibility for illegal collection for the use or use of information that constitutes a bank secret and the disclosure of a bank secret will provide a warning about the flow of information about banks and their customers. To date, the responsibility for the illegal disclosure or use of information that constitutes a bank secret is provided only by the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, article 164. 11. At the same time, the Criminal Code is responsible for the illicit collection of information that constitutes a bank secret and the disclosure of a commercial secret. The correct observations that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Directorate concludes on this bill have room to be taken into account on the second reading. The project was supported by the Law Enforcement Committee. The meeting took place on September 2, 2003, as well as the European Integration Committee. Since the issue of the protection of banking secrecy by establishing criminal responsibility for its disclosure is an urgent need, I ask you to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u61	Thank you. Bill number 3432. Deputy Head of National Bank Krotuk Vladimir Leonidovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, prepared by the National Bank of Ukraine, with the aim of ensuring that bank secrecy is properly protected. The bill provides for amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. In particular, the Criminal Code of Ukraine is proposed to supplement the new article 232 with the one that establishes criminal responsibility for the illegal use or disclosure of bank secrecy by persons who have become aware of this information in connection with the performance of professional or official duties if the actions have caused material harm to the bank, to other legal or physical persons or to the State. The National Bank's introduction of these changes is as follows. Ukraine's Information Act. One of the basic principles of information relations is the legality of receiving, using, disseminating, and storing information. One guarantee of the right to information is the establishment of responsibility for violations of information legislation. Furthermore, article 62 of the Banking and Banking Act provides that persons guilty of violating the order of disclosure and the use of bank secrecy are liable under Ukraine's laws. To date, criminal responsibility is imposed solely on the illicit collection, use, and disclosure of information that constitutes a commercial secret. At the same time, according to current legislation, the notion of "commercial secrecy" and "bank secret" are not identical and differ in content and in terms of legal access. For the illegal disclosure and use of banking secrecy, criminal responsibility is not foreseen at present. Only administrative responsibility is established for these actions. However, it should be borne in mind that the illegal disclosure of information that contains bank secrecy poses a much greater social danger, since it can cause significant harm not only to many owners but also to citizens who are not bank customers. Information that contains bank secrecy can be used for unfair competition between subjects of entrepreneurial activity, as a prerequisite for thievery, and fraud for committing other more serious crimes. It should be noted that criminal responsibility for violating the legal regime of banking secrecy is provided for in the laws of many foreign countries, such as Austria, Greece, Denmark, Spain, and France. Sweden, Russia, Armenia and others. The National Bank also proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and to set appropriate rules for the taking out of the bank of documents which contain a bank secret about a person solely on the basis of a reasoned ruling by the judge. This rule, in our view, will allow law enforcement authorities to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which establish that disclosure of information containing banking secrecy is carried out either by written permission of the owner of such information or by decision of the court and will correspond to article 124 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the jurisdiction of the courts extends to all legal relations arising in the State. The adoption of the proposed project should contribute to the proper observance of its obligations to preserve bank secrecy by the employees of banks, public authorities and to ensure the implementation of article 32 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which prevents the collection, storage, use and dissemination of confidential information about a person without consent, except in cases. defined by law and only in the interests of national security, economic well-being and human rights. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the first reading of the bill can be based on the bill. In view of what has been said, please consider the bill and accept it on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u63	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, the co-reporters are the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, School Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u64	Thank you. The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered both bills that have been proposed for consideration by both the deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers. And the proposed Long Bill and Burjak is, according to the committee, more perfect for many reasons. I want a whole series of them now. Well, you know, the first reason is always from this rostrum, I keep saying that MPs as lawmakers always work better than the Cabinet of Ministers. I think this may have something to do with all the things we read there, about the professor, about all the other problems with intellectual potential. But it's a very narrow specialized law. What's the question? The Cabinet of Ministers brings the quality of its innovations, it refers to a person with a certain responsibility, a certain tolerance. I mean, it's legal nonsense that's going to end and cloud the case later. Next, the MP’s bill extends to those who will be responsible for the disclosure of the bank’s secret. And the government narrows it down. That's why. The list of documents makes it narrower for which to be held accountable for the disclosure of a commercial secret. A bank secret, sorry. So the committee decided to adopt a draft law to amend some. Ukraine, registered 3432, has been tasked by the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Protection with the task of drafting a bill taking into account the proposals made by legal entities and introducing a second reading to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the committee is invited in its first reading to support the parliamentary bill as a better, better - quality and as a better basis for committee work. And to reject the bill accordingly proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that if the Cabinet of Ministers is interested in adopting such a bill, they will find a common language with representatives of the MPs who have come out with a legislative initiative and proposed, I say, a quality, full-fledged project that, in principle, only needs to be brought to a certain legal condition. And this will be done on second reading by the committee quickly and qualitatively. I call on the people's deputies to support the first reading of the MP's bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u65	Thank you. Please. Those who sign up, I see, insist. Mironenko. After him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u66	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support Bill 3432 in its first reading, as this will enhance the role of the courts in dealing with issues that are now being dealt with frequently on the order, and even with a criminal nature. Well, that would be the legal path, the way of creating a rule of law. However, we wish to draw attention to the following. In our view, the banking system requires fundamental changes. This is also evidenced by the fact that our country's economy is working despite assurances of huge growth and so forth. I can judge at least the enterprises of my hometown of Kerchi, where a large number of companies called Jugribpoisk, Kerchribprom, have actually been decommissioned, sold in the form of scrap metal, a metal combination purchased by an eastern group supporting the candidate, let's say, "I". They work disgustingly, people don't get paid, the Gulf factory, which has already been purchased by an oligarch who supports another oligarchic candidate, we'll call him a candidate of this "Y." So, they work, these businesses, like all over the country, are very bad because the banking system is actually working on itself. Giant credit rates are taken, and this is because of what. Universal privatization, including the banking system. At the beginning of the 20th century, Alexei Maksimović Gorki, the great writer, spoke of the banking system in force at the time: "The Bandit will give birth to a banker and the banker to a bandit." Why did he say that? Because criminal capital ensured the creation of private banks and private banks actually destroyed the economy and people of any State. Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko proposes, in view of the need for a mixed economy, a multifaceted economy to nationalize the banking system to a large extent, to provide affordable loans to the economy and the population of Ukraine. This will be in the interest of the State of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u67	The word has the national deputy of Yavorowski. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u68	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s team. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! According to normal human logic, I and I believe that a small number of people still among the national MPs would have to vote against this bill in a firm manner. Why did he give me this bill as a human? I don't have any bank accounts. I don't have any secrets. I don't need the law to protect it. On the other hand, I could vote against this bill because as a citizen and a little as a Ukrainian invader, it's very interesting and what Bakai, Kuchma, Yanukovic has in his accounts. That's interesting, because I understand that this money isn't made. Over the years, to be honest, we've only got maybe an average business somewhere, and there's people who could have made some real money. The rest is all stolen. And of course it would be incredibly interesting to know where Janukovic takes that kind of money for the election campaign. I was in Kharkishte, so I apologize, but I had to say to people, "Well, you're in Kharkushte, sorry, you can't go to the bathroom, because it feels like Janukovich's portraits are stuck there." Because of that, of course, it would seem that why do we need this secret? But on the other hand, I think it's fair that what we think about sooner or later we're going to have a normal civilized life, people can make money normally, people have to cover up some of their capital, but capital is actually earned. That's why I'm supporting this bill, and I realize that there's also a secret and a bank secret to commercial secrecy. [[I actually think that this bill is purely technical, even though it carries a great ideologie of legislation.]] However, I am absolutely convinced that for a few years in Ukraine it would be worth it, this is exactly what life requires to have access to people from the higher echelons of power, and I stress that, from the higher echelons of power, this does not apply to a businessman, those who have a political connection, obviously we should consider that this bill should still give access, some control of the public and the people over those savings, to those bank accounts that have representatives of the government. I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u69	Please, Karmazin. Follow him, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! First of all, let me welcome all the decent and honest lawyers, wherever they work, in this Hall or in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who work in the courts, in the prosecution, in the militia, in the security service, in the national economy, in commercial enterprises with a professional festivities -- Lawyer's Day, to live to see that after the 31st of October, after Victor Yuschenk's victory, we lived under the dictatorship of the Constitution and the law. Such a dictatorship is the only dictatorship allowed in a civilized world. Of course, I wish all the lawyers good and prosperous and their families, and I wish the same thing to myself. Because our leadership has been completely in line for the second year, making it appear that it does not notice this professional celebration, has not been greeted, has not said a good word to anyone. Adam Ivanovich, I criticize you in order to draw conclusions. As far as this bill is concerned. I want to say that the bill tabled by the National Bank of Ukraine does not bear any criticism at all. That says he's the leader of the Criminal Code team. Why? Because you are proposing a bill to establish criminal responsibility only for the illegal use or disclosure of information that constitutes a bank secret. But there will be no criminal punishment for the illegal collection or transfer of information that constitutes a bank secret. So these norms are not complex in nature, and in these cases, the ones I said would allow for the avoidance of punishment. As far as the MP's bill is concerned, he's also a lobbyist in my opinion. Why? Because it doesn't agree with the law yet, although in principle I'm more inclined to support the MP's bill. Why I have a comment on him. The Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, article 164 of the 11th, already provides for the person’s responsibility for disclosure and assembly with a view to the use of bank secrecy. The text of the bill proposes criminal responsibility. In order to avoid a conflict of law, the text of the law should provide for the exclusion of the offence from the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, otherwise a conflict is allowed, that is obvious. Next. If you complete exactly as proposed in the text: the location of item 231, then the term "commercial espionage" will refer to the addition, which is absolutely not true because.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u71	Yes, thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'd welcome you to the lawyer's day, but you're a lawyer with a broad profile, because there's both a prosecutor's day and a judge's day and a day and a day. So how's your day going? With all of them, I guess. Yes, please, Gunnery, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u72	Deputies! The drafts under consideration are seemingly purely technical in nature, but the technology itself in these bills is very different and refers to different categories. In this regard, the bill presented by the deputies Burjak and Long looks much more perfect, although it needs some work. I'd rather not be in the MPs than in the radio audience to take away their concern that bank secrets with the adoption of this bill are simply not to be accessible to them and that all of our entrances to WTO, to international society and so on, will be rejected. No, this bill does not at all deny monitoring the work of banks by those monitors, the bodies that are supposed to do it in accordance with the law, and at the same time, it actually reinforces responsibility, unfortunately without replacing this law with criminal law, which should be done in the first reading. And I agree with colleagues who have criticized both bills. I'm going to suggest that you take the MP's version and accept it on the first reading with the next revision. And as for which banks are being financed by the purchase of that product that was in the Borvary on the exhibit, of course, there is no investigation at this time, but those appeals on those posters to the division of Ukraine and to the civil war that sounded from Yanukovich's representatives will certainly remain. I don't want to go unnoticed. And Ukraine will appreciate who is who.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'd like to ask from the Cabinet of Ministers Kosticsky Vasil Vasilovich. What does the Ministry of Finance say about these bills?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. A bill introduced by the people's deputies and a draft prepared by the National Bank of Ukraine for the legislative initiative is under consideration. The government supports any decision of the Supreme Council to support a bill, because it considers it appropriate to address the issue, which will help to regulate the banking system. In the case of the first reading or acquisition based on a project prepared by the people's deputies, we'd like to take into account those positions that are in other alternative projects, because they provide a mechanism for solving issues with access to banking secrecy. And this would provide a comprehensive solution to the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u75	Thank you. So the position is understood. Dear colleagues, let's be clear. The adoption vote is based on the first reading of the Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for violating banking secrecy. Bill number 3550. Please vote. [[11:57:34]] For 212 The factions, please. Don't yell. “Our Ukraine” - 96, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 47, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 15, SPO - 12, Block Timoshenko - 13, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 12, NDP and PPU - 6, “Deminiciatives” - 0, “O” - 11. A vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on liability for bank secrecy. Registration number 3432. I'd like to make up my mind. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:58:35]] For-75 Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that rating gives a significant advantage, as they say, of the first law is 212. If there is no objection, I am once again voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for breach of bank secrecy]] Registration number 3550. Please vote. [[11:59:22]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. And I think it's the honorary colleagues, especially I'm going to ask the profile committee, what look at, on the second reading, put together what you can from that law so they can draft the necessary bill. Ask for factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 54, SDPU and "Urban Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 17, Socialists - 15, Timoshenko - 17, "Union" and "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 8, NDP, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 11. There is a bill to amend some Ukrainian laws prohibiting mass sessions using hypnosis. Yes, the reporter is ignoring his bill, this is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Komar. Then, please, from the committee. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich. Mikhail Vasilovich, drop the phone, go to the rostrum. Dear Dear colleagues, I think we're going to work without a break to strike this week, the more ahead we won't be working next week. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prohibit mass sanctions using hypnosis. This law was discussed in the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood, and I have found support, and I propose that I support and vote for it. It's about people who are said to be national physicians who are conducting hypnosis sanctions to prohibit them from being held in public places, in places where people are gathered, and that is to be given special permission and individualized if the patient wants to do so. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u77	The idea of the bill is clear. All right, sit down, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, Puzakov, follow him Mironenko. Let's move on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u78	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The population does not have the correct information about hypnosis, nor does anyone try to prove the truth to them. When the patient knows it, he will not come to the doctor, he will not take the last penny out of the house, for the patient is said to be in need of straw, and the dishonest are successful in using it. And by doing that, these psychotherapists in their paws are picking up some kind of medical tactic and they're just doing experiments on people. Today, psychotherapists, such as fungi after the rain, have tripled their treatment. The Ministry of Health closes its eyes and advertises hypnosers. As many as appeared under the various aliases of such hypnosers, the grandmother Vera, the savior Ana, the prophetess Lisa, and so on. The main thing is that everyone is treated for all kinds of pains. And these are actual charlatans who take away the last copy. All treatments should be conducted in a medical facility, not in theaters and libraries. As long as they don't fool a man! By all means, people are being dragged into so-called sessions, and they even say, "Free entry." But you have to buy a picture of this charlatan doctor for 50 bucks for your salvation. And only then will this help the patient. Recently, a collective letter came to my address from the residents of Ivano-Frankowish, who reported that there had been a group of doctors in the district centre for over two years who had misled their patients. Doctors found them sick and sold other drugs instead and conducted mass hypnosis treatments. The medical facility was part - time. Psychologists used computer manipulation to diagnose patients and to convince the patient that the findings are true, that there is no need for any other research. [[in quotes]] Of course, they treated each other with one medicine, all of which are said to be a ridge. On Prikarpata alone, these frauds heal more than two thousand people. For treatment, adults paid 500 dollars and 400 dollars for the child. That's how they treat you. Unfortunately, neither health care nor health care. Of course, they were not seen because they were not treated there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u79	Please, Mironenko. After him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u80	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko, requested the Communist faction to vote in favour of the laws that ensure order in the country and the protection of the interests of ordinary citizens. In this case, the Communist faction will support the bill because it provides the direction Peter Nikolaevich spoke of. But I personally want to say my position on this issue, two thoughts to express. First, in my view, the prescribed penalties for perpetrators are too soft because such sessions, especially through television, often produce tragic results. Everybody knows that a lot of people felt much worse after these sessions, and some even died by the TV, watching these capires there, the hams and so on. And in my view, not a five-year deadline should be the highest in this respect, but perhaps, if tragic results have been confirmed, a large, even higher penalty. But we know that now all possible apherists who deceive people who earn money by any means are trying to justify it. They have good lawyers and so on. And if punishment is provided for, small penalties are usually provided for. Second thought. It must also be punished for the fact that the population, through television, radio and other media, is actually misleading and is forced to vote in the same elections, not according to the needs of the people, but by the oligarhams, because everyone knows that the media is distributed between the two oligarchic groups that have now nominated two of their candidates, the most important, so-called ones. And as a result, what happens? People who want me to stop terrible unemployment, I have terrible unemployment in the city, huge numbers of people have gone to Russia, other countries. People who want this situation to be eliminated in order to eliminate poverty, to raise the standard of living, vote for the same thieves in power who rob them and hope that the thief will not steal again. But it's an illusion! The more he steals, the more he wants to steal. Therefore, respectable compatriots, let us make the right choice in the presidential elections, otherwise we will see the thieves again in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u81	That is the word of the national deputy of Yavorovsky. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u82	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block, Yavorov, Zovva Dear colleagues! The funny law we're considering, if we take it seriously, it's really funny. You know, I'm just afraid, if we vote for it, all these hypnotists that are, they can bring hypnosis to the Supreme Council, and they're going to put all this energy here. I feel like they're already working because they've taken out the hypnosis of most people, and it's disintegrating right now. You can see for yourself that they were under hypnosis, someone didn't see to it, and it all fell apart. But on the other hand, we want to vote in favour of this bill because Ukrainian society has actually been under hypnosis for 13 years now, and you know hypnotists. And now, you see, how is that? It's from a colossal hypnosis, which is not included. Turn on the first channel, everything in this country is beautiful, everything is great, the pensioner has doubled his pension, and in fact it's just twice his money and put it in his pocket. What doesn't turn on, it's okay, it's okay. Yesterday, all who listened to the session of the Supreme Council heard two thoughts. And Zinchenko's last thought has been completely crossed out, so if you'll excuse me, it's the sound of the head of this committee. So yesterday at all: the first, the second, the third channel was heard only by Sovkovic. Is that not hypnosis? Because I think we should vote anyway. I think we're going to stand with you under the blows of these hypnotists here in the Supreme Council, because there aren't many of us, I think there are people here who are stable and just won't give in to this hypnosis. But let's actually vote, and let's let these hypnotists finally give the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian nation a clean hour. I think they're the last of their hypnosis to be absurd today, and that's it. Because I think it's going to be okay. Let us vote, and, indeed, let them know that they have not voluntarily stopped their hypnosis, and what we have with you, the national deputies, helped them. And the last thing I want to say. Adam Ivanovich is a normal civilized norm. Janukovic is the prime minister of the majority. Most have fallen apart, Janukovich has to resign. I don't know what he's delaying.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u83	The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u84	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! That's what I wanted to call this law against witches in the third millennium -- that's probably what I should have called it. And there was a lot of names here, including people who really treat people with their properties, something that medicine today cannot understand. That doesn't mean we just have to take everything and stop it. What? I haven’t had time to thank Alan Chumak since 1988. There was no time. I'm doing it now from this high-rise rostrum. Why? Because I happened to be present during one of the healing sessions, and I was totally negative for this person, and with the bad thoughts he was sitting there, let him excuse me, I apologized for that thought, and now I say, and one of the serious diseases that I had taken and passed at the end of the session. That was interesting. So what's happening right now is what's being used by the 25th Human Forces in a zombie attack on Yanukovic, what's happened yesterday, and what's been spreading is a disgraceful speech by the so-called temporary commission on behalf of Sivkovic, the so-called head, if there wasn't a great speech by Shevchuk, the doctor of God, the others, people might not have understood, but they were spreading only one statement. Obviously that's hypnosis, that's what we have to stop, that's what we have to ban. How can the word "illegal" be excluded in the article of the first bill? It's illegal to leave. Because there can be legal influence. So if a person really has healing properties, it's got to be checked by experts, they have to issue certain licenses, and it has to be distributed. And those who advertise another one, Vera, Nadia, who have these channels today? They're in the oligarchs. That's not how it works, Your Honor. So I don’t mind being amended by the Television and Radio Act, the Advertising Act. But in the Criminal Code, I am strongly opposed to making such changes. And I'm definitely against that. I will not vote in favour of the bill passed by Masters, Komar, Leščinski, Bachtejeva, Pravdenko, Alexijuk, who are not currently in the hall who have pulled the cards. They're not interested in their own bill, and I'm going to support it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u85	Have a seat. What is the opinion of the Ministry of Health? Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Quick Help. The treatment sessions for the mass audience using hypnosis are one of the directions of so - called alternative medicine. The main feature is the use of treatments that differ significantly from those that are accepted in scientific medicine. Broad medical practices and special studies confirm the negative effects of such treatment sessions. The most common of these are late oncology and neuropsychic diseases. The absence of timely specialized medical care and treatment in many cases has led to an unfavorable forecast of the occurrence of these diseases. On the charge of the Puzakova People’s Deputy, we report to the MOH of Ukraine’s grandmother Vera and other similar medical licenses. So this is a matter for their activities to the law enforcement agencies. In general, the Ministry of Health supports the bill and looks forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u86	Grandma gave Grandpa a license, you can see. Yes, dear colleagues, from the Hoornik procedure, the Roadrunners, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has two sides: one side concludes that there is fatigue around people who grab hold of straw. I'm certainly in favour of banning telehypnotism, because they're killing the population and, indeed, they are. Apparently, they do more harm than good. As for small audiences with possible hypnosis under the license of the Ministry of Health, the first article calls for consideration. As a result, I really propose that I vote in the first reading, not in general, to clarify these articles. As for the majority in these votes. Well, most of it is, and we showed it. As for hypnosis, really. There is now a mass hypnosis of the population of Ukraine under the phrase "because." We have confidence that the population of Ukraine will not succumb to this hypnosis, either to basils or to Cossacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u88	Please, the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u89	The faction of the Company of Ukraine, Droguncs. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to remind you that the commission to investigate the facts related to Yushchenk was initiated by Yushchenka’s supporters. It was supported by an absolute majority of the national deputies. And then Carmazin claims it's a disgraceful commission. I think he insulted all the members of this committee. And I'm looking at this as, maybe, direct evidence that he's already been to a session.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I then, after the vote, Yuri Anatolyevich. He'll get the word after the vote. Come on. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote better. Dear colleagues, let's support the bill. Here Yavorowski was very persuasive in saying that he should be accepted. I am voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to bring legislation into line with the Ukrainian Civil Code. Oh, sorry, sorry, that's not it. This is the next law. Draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws prohibiting mass sessions using hypnosis, registration number 3765. I guess someone hypnotized me, too. Vote. [[12:18:29]] For 169 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 54, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 17, SPO - 17, Block Timoshenko - 8, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 7, NDP and PPU - 6, “Deminiciatives” - 0, “Deminicatives” - 4. Well, as we can see, the fate of the law is in the hands of "Our Ukraine." What suggestions? Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u91	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the portion of the law in the hands of the regulations. The unvoted is rejected, you understand. And I wanted to say a line. I'm surprised at people who make observations about Carmazin why? Because Carmazin said that the speech was shameful and not on behalf of the commission yesterday, because the committee did not approve of the conclusion. And this disgraceful conclusion was distributed yesterday on behalf of the entire commission, where there was no mention of poisoning, about the attempted murder of Victor Yushchenk. You have to call things your names. And no one hypnotizes me, for I am a believing man, I believe in God, and I advise you to do so. And then you don't have to be afraid of any witches or anything in this life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u92	Yeah, shall we vote again? Let's uphold the law. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 3765. [[concerning the prohibition of mass sessions using hypnosis]] Please vote. [[12:20:51]] For-189 The bill was rejected. There is a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 5637. [[on the introduction of legislation in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine]] Reported by Czernovetski National Deputy, to prepare for the Committee of the Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. Our Ukraine faction, Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetski. I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak on such an important issue. It is a matter of total disrespect for the executive branch by our decision. We have adopted many outstanding articles with you in the Ukrainian Civil Code. Once upon a time, Napoleon and many other outstanding people praised such codes. After that, we passed the Law on the Elimination of the Institute of Unacceptable Write-off, which was fully voted on by both Communists and Socialists, 386 votes, and overcame the President's veto in terms of the unacceptable write-off of taxpayers'funds and accounts. This is not a specific group of taxpayers, it is any citizen whose property may be arrested at the moment unless an official likes anything. But the worst part is that laws are not being implemented, and the Civil Code is at the constitutional level. It's not just a law, it's a law that contains a whole bunch of legislation that the people both dreamed of and the people's deputies. And I think you should support me, because it's very important. And I wouldn't put that bill in, because it's been decided for a long time. There is a law on the elimination of the institution of non-acceptable write-off. He was also supported by the entire majority, with no one, ex, and all the opposition. It was the law on one breath, because he overcame the veto. And it's very serious. At the same time, the law was followed by a civil code, but the law is not being implemented. The Government entrusted the Ministry of Justice with the drafting of a new law. Unacceptable write-offs and arrests have already been introduced. What is most important to Ukraine today? New jobs. Whether it's a state-owned enterprise or a private, larek or an entire steel mill, it can be put on its knees, it can be forced to work in any kind of signature-gathering mode or any other kind of filth by just one or more fire inspectors, or a sanapidemic plant, or anyone. I ask you: please support this bill of mine, which instead of the Government that we have mandated under the Ukrainian Civil Code to bring all the other normal acts into line, has not done so inadvertently. You've voted twice for this. Please take a closer look at what is going on. Well, of course, I am, because I have a chance to say it, I have to say that today we have made a lot of good decisions. And I think it's a good session, including. Meeting, including for my bill. To not vote for him is to put anyone on their knees in front of any of the lowest lines of executive power. It's a complete disgrace. With regard to laws that are, of course, derived from the bill. This is a law, which includes communists, on the elimination of value added tax, which is not intentionally put to the Supreme Council for voting, and is not decided upon. I also remind our voters that by buying all the products from bread to a piece of sausage in the store, they pay 20 per cent of VAT, a tax that is not available in most of the most outstanding countries in the world. This is also directly linked to the bill. And that money comes right from a piece of little sausage into the pocket of the oligarchs. For which, of course, the former majority will not vote. But I'm asking you to support this bill. It's a bill that breathes freedom; it's a bill that we've already passed, voted twice and voted for it, even for the majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u94	From the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vitaly Yuriovich Hometinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! The purpose of this law is to reduce the number of public authorities whose officials have the right to impose restrictions on the account of a client in a bank and to eliminate differences in legislation due to the acquisition of the Civil Code of Ukraine. The Committee on Finance and Banking reviewed the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u96	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Is it? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u97	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The rule of the Constitution and its dictatorship should be ensured around the world. And I am grateful to the national deputy of Chernowitz that he made a statement this time with a very serious bill. This bill proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code and a number of valid laws, as long as the limitation of customers' rights is still managed by the funds at his expense. It is proposed that, in cases of civil suit and possible confiscation of the property of the accused, the suspect or the person who is liable for the sentence of the law, the arrest of such persons would be carried out solely on the basis of a court decision. [[Part 2 of article 26 of CPC]] I think the first reading of this law should be adopted. I can't help but direct your attention and ask you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, to make a decision at the request of a citizen of Berdjanska Nina Vasilovna, who lives in Kiev on 14th Street, apartment 183, in which a son who served in foreign armies died. She was told that the laws that provided for compensation had no mechanism and had no direct action and therefore needed to go to Yanukovic to ensure direct action. A man's son is dead, and the authorities are always playing football. I have before me a special order from the head of the Western Regional Authority of the State Border Service of Ukraine: "to exclude from the lists the special composition of the regional administration in connection with the death of the flag of Berdjanski Igor Ivanovich, controller of the 1 category in connection with the performance of the military service of death." The kingdom of the heavens belongs to this man, but I turn to power. There's a whole government representative here. Please provide the payment to the mother who lost her son. I am in favour of the adoption of this law in the first reading and for ensuring the dictatorship of the Constitution, including with regard to citizens who have lost their citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u98	Yes, which of the others who have signed up still insists? Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. The adoption of this bill will reduce the civil strife, remove or reduce the stigma on the business’s neck, and help solve the social problems of employees in employment. This may be the result of the adoption of this law, if, of course, it will be implemented. This law in time, it knocks at the door of the Supreme Council. We are obliged simply and it is our function as a parliament to amend laws that conflict with our laws. There are six laws that are separate articles that conflict with the Civil Code. And the whole point of the bill is to bring these laws into line with the Civil Code. So, in my opinion, there can be no objection to the need to adopt this law. In fact, Chernewsky put these laws together in a single package or in a single bouquet, and he proposes to make systematic changes to these laws. I'd like to draw your attention to just two moments, one of which is the arrest of an account. Officials are allowed to do so so far. The only way to arrest accounts is through a court of law. True, we know that the courts are not exactly what we need, but at least, in principle, it's not an official question, it's the question of the court that's being asked. Next. I accept the paphos of the author of the law, which insists on eliminating the value added tax. I've personally been against this tax in our economy from the very beginning, it's a criminal tax, especially in our circumstances. Maybe it works under the conditions of a civilized country. In fact, we don't have a value added tax, we have a bumper. And the more these transitions, the more they go. This is not an added value, in fact, it is not. So it needs to be eliminated as a class. And finally, all of this will contribute to the growth of new jobs. There are basic criteria for assessing government activity at all levels -- creating new jobs, that's increasing corporate income and reducing non-profit enterprises -- that's increasing wages and increasing budget revenues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u100	Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u101	I will express my position to respectable compatriots. National Deputy of Ukraine Mironenko, Communist faction. I believe there are healthy ideas here in this bill, good ideas that could be useful. Well, I know, there's a lot of cases in the county where officials are actually doing things arbitrarily. I was approached by small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and was told that property was being arrested, and often this property, in particular the history of Ukraine with the Vice-President of the Union of Industrialists of the town of Kerci Smirnov, who asked for my help. And he was the first to win a trial against tax officials, the tax police, who illegally seized his property. So he's also in this case with the money, the property, they're missing, somewhere. And so far, there are fibers on this issue at all levels. Because you know that it's very difficult to tell the truth now. The Communist faction has always supported and supported small businesses, medium-sized entrepreneurs and even large entrepreneurs, if they act in the interests of the people, do not break the laws and do not go dark, pay Gosbudget in local budgets all that is budgeted. We're ready to support those. Well, of course it's about job creation. We have a common position here with the same Union of Industry and Entrepreneurs of Kerchi. Here we, Kerchi Communists, have a very close relationship, a good relationship. The same work is done with trade unions. In particular, they, trade unions and the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs in the city of Kerchi, have addressed me with their problems that the Government, which now exists, is suffocating a small and medium-sized entrepreneur. And I've been addressing both the head of government and the leadership of the Supreme Council and so on. But I think it's clear that those who make decisions will not usually cancel them. It is necessary to remove such people from power, not for the benefit of the people, but for some narrow part of the population currently in power. Therefore, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, expressing precisely 99 per cent of the population's interests in his policies, stressed, said and said that the state's path should be changed. Without that, we will not be able to achieve anything, including with regard to the bill, it will be adopted and the Government will not implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u102	The miner and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, there really is now a situation of the racket of our entrepreneurs, especially those who do not support a single candidate or take a neutral position, all possible authorities - controlling and verifying state authority. But we have to look ahead. If we're counting on a change in that system, we're counting on more civilized methods of doing business, including those bills proposed by the Czernowetski MP. Of course, they make life easier for many entrepreneurs. But not all of them. Law - abiding entrepreneurs are still under pressure. And at the same time, those entrepreneurs who point out in Expocenter, the circulation of postcards against Yushchenk, not so much against Yushchenk as against the Ukrainian state, calling for its dissipation, calling for civil war, indicating a thousand, and issuing tens of millions, are not responsible. And these control structures don't want to control them at all, starting with the D.A., ending with the militia. These amendments to the six bills proposed by the Czernovetski MP have made this situation easier. And I tend to support the findings of the Chief Executive, an expert management who considers it appropriate to reduce the number of public authorities whose officials have the right to impose restrictions on the account of a client in a bank. That's about the audit service, about the social insurance. At the same time, the executive implementation bill, I think there's already a court decision. And these changes proposed by Mr. Chernewsky don't seem logical. The same is true of bank amendments and banking. And they need work. So my suggestion is to accept it in the first reading and to further develop all these changes to the bills in question. And a civilized business, it'll soon be if there's not what they say. Because it's a crime all over Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u104	Yeah, we're going to vote now. All I'm asking is the opinion of the First Deputy Minister of Justice of the Suprun. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u105	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! The government does not support this bill, but not because it opposes a reduction in the number of bodies whose officials have the right to restrict the rights of the client to manage the right money, but rather to ensure the rights and legitimate interests of citizens and legal persons. Indeed, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which has just been mentioned, does not recommend that the Supreme Council amend the law on enforcement, because the State's executioner executes the decision of the court, and with a view to ensuring its execution, has the right to arrest accounts. This is the first time. Secondly, it is not recommended to amend the Criminal Procedure Code because the investigators also make their own decisions regarding the purpose of securing a civil suit or the possible confiscation of property by making an arrest of value and the contributions of the accused or the suspect. Why is this being done? Because delay in making such a decision can make it impossible to place an arrest on deposits in connection with the possible actions of accused or suspects aimed at concealing funds by withdrawing or transferring them to other accounts or closing accounts. I'm paying attention to the people's deputies that this isn't about an uninterrupted write-off, because it's solely for the court to decide. This is only about the imposition of arrests, that is, the limitation of the customer’s right to dispose of funds in cases provided for by law. So I would very much ask you not to support this project. In order to remove the conflict between article 10.74 of the Civil Code and other laws that provide for the right of public authorities and officials to arrest in statutory cases, the Government has introduced an appropriate bill, which is now being considered on the Committees of the Supreme Council. He's taking down this colossal. You can't let money flow into other mud in legal cases until a court decision restricts the use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u106	One minute to report for the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! There's this play from the great Master and Marguerite writer, where Mr. Walanda needs to be exposed when he's there and he's showing all sorts of tricks, and one of the leading officials with his wife says, "Where's the exposure?".. And he says, "And the revelation is that you were with your mistress on a day like this in a completely different place." Well, you're cultural people, you've read this play. And the revelation is that Mr. Lavrinović is working through his smoldering "Specst" theft of state property. Let him sue me. Don't give up. And what the stranger here says to me in such a boring tone is some kind of nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u108	Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to stop these attacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u109	Pass it, pass it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u110	They are not worthy of a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u111	And why did you include him, this representative of the unknown? Now the second one. I want to tell you. In general, vote because it repeats the Civil Code, which we have already voted for. Respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u112	Leonid Mikhailovich, I'm making a note. The Supreme Council Court. We have to use culturally for the cultural person. I would like to vote on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of legislation in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine]] Adoption of Bill 5637. Please vote. [[12:44:55]] For 212 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 73, "Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 51, Social Democrats, "Urrigible Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, Socialists - 19, Block Timoshenko - 16, "The Union", "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 13, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 8. Should we vote again? Then I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of legislation in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine]] Bill number 5637. Please vote. [[12:45:54]] For 241 The bill was adopted in the first reading. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media in Ukraine is being complied with. [[on the refusal of State registration]] Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, at the request of the Oluika People's Deputy, who represents the People's Democratic Party, I cannot be, I will present his bill and I will express my position and our committee. It's about the outside of small revisions, but it's important and serious in the situation that today has with the print media system. Today we have 2 trends in manipulation among our readers, in print media. The first trend in manipulations is that those open-ended newspaper names that have a long history and a Soviet and post - Soviet use of polytechnologists in various electoral campaigns, when they are produced identical by name, by style, according to the fonts of the newspaper, of course, only with the opposite content. Such incidents have taken place in previous election campaigns, unfortunately, even during the current election campaign. We've repeatedly called this attention, remember, we've increased administrative responsibility for this, but unfortunately, it's completely within the scope of law enforcement and until the law enforcement agencies act properly, there's nothing we can do about our changes to the law. Here is suggested by the national deputy Olujko another approach to other abuse, to other manipulation, we believe, is more effective. It's about that. That it has recently become possible to register newspaper names similar to similar names, or, let's say, add a plus, a minus, and some other misfortune, and it gives the impression that it's the name of an old newspaper that people are used to, and so on. We've looked in Ukraine, we've got some Communists, the Companion, the Village News, and so on, hundreds. Thus, those who try to use the good name of the newspaper to which they are accustomed are, of course, consciously taking such steps. The mass of conflicts and lawsuits we have are among commercial advertisements, when just the advertising agency is falling apart, they fight for the name, and then they appear either in front of the paws or without paws. The bill clearly foresees that the registration body should act if we support these changes to the law, as follows. If he receives proposals for the registration of a media medium with a similar name, and this fact after registration may result in the mixing and rejection or acceptance of this, as a previous issue, the registration authority has the right not to register such an issue, to refuse registration. Exclusion is only when the founder has a similar name. when the founder speaks to register another edition with a similar name. There's only one difficulty. The difficulty is how to help the registration authority, in this case, and the appropriate department of the Derteradio, and the district administrations, which will determine the criteria of similarity. We've analyzed this issue with lawyers, we think that between the first and second readings, we need to sit down and work to clearly formulate these criteria of similarity of names so that the registration authority, not for its own reasons, but based on the law, acted and, let's say, or refused to register with a similar name, or, let's say, what's the argument that this media can come out with that name or can't come out with that name. So our committee's position that the problem posed by the Oluik People's Deputy is correct, relevant. We propose to support his bill in the first reading, and in the second reading, we will try to regulate and polish it in such a way that there is no subjectivity in the registration, and in the refusal of registration, we have no dozens, hundreds of newspapers with similar names, and good names, and the work of journalists from earlier times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u114	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u115	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I support the changes made to article 15, and I hope that this will increase the responsibility of every employee of the printed body for its production. But I would like to add that for the author’s unreliable information, I would leave the right to take up this position, for from whom, if not from this person, do readers want to know the truth. And it goes the other way around. At the same time, some publishers are so shamelessly twisting the facts that white becomes black, and they may not even have a place in the press. There's Mr. Kumansky, a journalist for the "People's Word" printed in Kirovgrad. I don't understand why he's so hostile to the Communists, because recently he's been proud of the party ticket as a party secretary, and he's given him education and work. For example, during his stay in Kirovgrad, Presidential candidate Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka was given reliable information about Peter Mikolaiovich’s meeting, his meaningful presentation, and his appreciation of him as a deep political actor. Representatives of any printed edition enjoyed an interview, and they appreciated his preelection program. In Kumansky’s case, he did not like the fact that the girl in the pioneer tie met the president’s candidate. Is that bad? First of all, she's a member of a district pioneer organization that you don't even know about. You may find Mr. Kumanski to like meetings when eggs and stones are thrown. Is that what you want? As far as nostalgia is concerned, it really is. Why not? Were we afraid of each other? In Soviet times, could they have thrown an egg or stone at the Prime Minister? It is a great shame, and it is a great fear. That's the result of your upbringing, and that's your democracy. That's why this girl, who knows more about the red tie and the communist than some journalists, because she has both her grandfather and her great-letter great-letter great-grandfather, and she met in the red tie of the national president, urging all honest people to give their vote on election day for the faithful son of the people of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, who in the country will provide free education, will bring peace and peace to every home, and children will have a happy childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u116	Mironenko, followed by Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u117	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable National Deputies, revered Adam Ivanovich. In my view, it is necessary to uphold this law. Not only is this rule needed, which prohibits the use of such names in the media, which leads to confusion, confusion and so on. In my view, it is also necessary to prohibit party registration if the name of the so-called new party is largely repeated by the previous party. Let us at least focus on what is being done now. By the way, the oligarchs who are doing and are now trying to break up the Supreme Council's work, have left their jobs, are not working. Well, oligarchs have oligarchs. They want the word of truth not to come from here. How, then, will the people come to know the truth? Thus, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, who is the most consistent in the interests of the people, should not be defeated. In particular, it's all over again. and for the Union of Brotherly States, for the cessation of privatization and so on. So that Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko doesn't win, what's going on? Leak parties are being established. Remember, the Communist Party was updated in due course. The letter "o" was added. As a result, people are confused. It's a crime. And immorally misleading people. Don't let them vote consciously for whoever they want to choose. Now the other oligarchs have also done another experiment. So-called CPD. You know, on the right and on the left, and from the center, everyone will confirm that the publications of the so-called PRCR, the lipo party, the Communist Party of Workers and Farmers, created by the oligarchs of rulers, where publications are being made? It's the state of these ruling oligarchs. And as a result, people think, and suddenly this Jacobenko is going to be a real president, a real communist. But this is an unconscionable lie not only of Jacob’s own. He realizes he won't let Simonenko win. That's understandable. And he's talking about the unity of communists, something like that, about a single candidate from the left. That's a lie. He lies all the time. And from where did he get the money, he had this Jacobenko on the whole commercial loop, and so on, leaflets and so on. But where is the conscience of those rulers who do this, who deceive the people in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u118	Yes, the word has the national deputy of Yavorowski, followed by Karmazin, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u119	Vladimir Yavorowski. Well, I can't hide how much I liked Mironka's performance. Well, good for you. Well, I can't just hide my joy. Give me your hand. Because I saw this paper, I was in this chamber. And when I saw tens of tons of this KPRS newspaper, and most importantly, the most paradoxical thing that comes in is a nationalist, a Cossack, and he's holding hands with a Basiluk-shachinist. And they say it's their property. So I already took this newspaper CPRS and the nationalist, put it on his chest, and he loved it because it was a fake, and it was a fake. That's just the way it is. I fully support this bill because it came out of our committee. This is where my colleague Tomenko reported it. I think it's really important and very important. We will remove manipulations that are very often used by authorities, unconscious and immoral authorities. Examples: as an additional edition of the newspaper "The Village News" was published at the same time, the same example today as Mironenko quoted. And I just want to. I thought to myself, ‘ Why such an insolent Pichovsek? Why is Jangirov so insolent? Why do they lie so shamelessly, come out and yesterday what they showed, let's say, the same wax, oh, I'm sorry, Peacock, why are they so shameless? Because they know that if Victor Yushchenko wins, their heads and hair will not fall. But let them know that if Yanukovic wins, and we have to remember that, many honest journalists will have to flee from that state. And it's got the only journalists left in it, and they're going to have tentacles and djangers. But that will never happen. We vote in favour of this bill -- we will kick another possibility of manipulation out of the hands of the immoral authorities. I think even Ivan Chiz is a great wise parliamentarian who's lost a little bit there in his minister's seat. Ivan, we have to go back to Parliament. There's freedom, it's okay. That's all, and there you are, miserable, sitting under all these officials. We vote for this bill, I think it's normal. If only your hands were enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u120	We've had enough. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u121	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I fully support this bill for the reasons discussed. Moreover, I offer to accept it in the first and second readings because I do not see serious warnings. I was not convinced by the Science and Experimental Authority, which also supports this bill. Today, we have worked very hard with you, regardless of those who wanted to disrupt our debate today. Today, it was said that in a civilized country, an egg could not be thrown. And the day before that, Julius Timoshenko was thrown with an egg! True, she didn't go into a tantrum, she didn't start to throw, she didn't say, "I forgive them all." What about forgiveness? Eggs to forgive? What? And we heard, "What we did to me." What did they do? The egg is dead! Oh, my God! Schwartzneger got shot, and he said, "You're bacon." Yes, Your Honor, and we say here. As for the media we saw together, I wonder why the Communists did not then take an interest in it and come to help us at night, and now they do not want to come. Maybe they'll come, God forbid. I'm just telling them, I want to name a new address: Henri Barbus Street, third floor, Dussie's printery. Please come now, and interesting things are also printed there. And I'd like to take a last look at the resolutions of a town-type village rally in the district of Osilkow, Kiev, which asked him to make a sound: "We, the participants in the rally, are concerned about the actions of President Janukovic's candidate, who, using his official position, local public administrations, law enforcement agencies, the Security Service, the media exclusively in his pre-election interests, deliberately destabilizes the social and political situation in Ukraine. As a result of such irresponsible actions, false information is spreading in society, international conflicts are artificially exacerbated, and rumors of East-West confrontations are spreading, calls for civil war are being heard. This is evidenced by recent developments in the production and distribution of the environment of Yanukovich’s dirty antichunky printed information. In particular, in railway trains, in the printery "New Printing", in the Ukrainian Expo Centre, which is owned by the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. Such illegal acts are carried out with the silent consent and noninterference of the prosecution, the police, and the Security Service. We citizens of Ukraine, representatives of various nationalities, strongly condemn the anti-constitutional actions of the candidate to President Janukovic, and, pursuant to article 5 of the Constitution, we demand that the President execute his mandate provided for in article 106 of the Constitution to immediately end the violation of the Janukovič Constitution, in order to give equal conditions, to remove Prime Minister Janukovic from his office." Adopted at a rally of residents of the village of Grebinka, who know clearly, unlike the Central Electoral Commission, the requirements of the Presidential Election Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u122	Yuri Anatolyevich, a bit off topic. Please, from the State Committee on Information Ivan Sergiyovich Chizh. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I want to say from conscientious and moral authority, because this committee is fully supported by the project, and there was no case at all during my term as chairman of the State Committee, so that the authorities of the State Committee or other institutions would try to manipulate the titles of publications. And at the same time, we're actually dealing with dozens of cases where we're using known branded open, so to speak, it's either plus, or minus, or something else. And actually there's a twin who's using, like, at the start, what they've been doing to him. And we have to deal very often with this kind of legislature when we don't have the right not to register, otherwise it immediately causes a lawsuit or an accusation of the authority of immorality and unconsciousness, but we see that the immoral and unconscionable those who make these proposals. And at the same time, we are limited in law to decide these matters only in court. Thus, it was often the case that the State Committee had to defend its position in court, and this project is indeed in some way a solution to this conflict, this problem, but not to the end. So our proposal is to support it in the first reading. And you can't write in the law, let's say, something like the similarity of the name. It's absolutely an eclectic notion that you're not going to take for granted in court, anywhere. Tell me to what extent? In part letters or phrases or additions? You have to write clearly, specifically, exactly what is a similar edition -- I repeat -- and it can't be registered, and what can be registered and published as a new edition. This is the first position, so I'm asking you to support it. The other one. We have to predict in the project that this situation will spread to newly established editions, because there might be a case where we launch a feedback mechanism, which is unacceptable. In general, please support me in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u124	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Everybody on the move, I see. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media in Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on the refusal of State registration]] Bill number 5166. Please vote. [[13:05:37]] For 230 We're embarrassed, we've embarrassed Carmazin a little bit. He said we wouldn't vote. No, is there a denial? [[N o M e s s a ……]] Dear colleagues, listen to me, please! If the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers denies it, we will now vote with you as a whole. They're going to veto, and we're going to be wearing our heads off again. Let's do what we recommend, and everything will be fine, and the law will work in a week or two. Let us act with reasonableness. Yavorovski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski. I support all that Adam Ivanovich said. I just can't help it. John Chee said that he was acting out of honest authority. Mr. John, have you filed an application and gone from there?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u126	You're the one who's going to talk about it at the break. Dear colleagues! I would ask, we have been hanged for a very long time, sorry for such a non-parliamentary expression, two decrees. Now we're going to listen to them a little bit, these are the decisions that are from the Widow's Committee. So let's figure out, and then we'll be consistent with what we had at 1:00. It's a 90-year-old Talergofu project. [[Registration number 5382]] The head of the committee of the Udovenko Hennaday Josipovich. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! The purpose of this decision is to honor our one-time compatriots, the victims of the concentration camp in Austria, a camp called the Talerhof. Talergoth is known in history as a real cathode, where young and old people, men, women, children were destroyed by the most cruel methods. We have very little to do to return from the nonexistence of those who gave their lives for the freedom and independence of our homeland. Let us radically change this attitude toward them. Let us be just, they deserve more. We must give due tribute to those fallen fellow countrymen who were ready before World War I to fight together with all the Ukraine. I am grateful to the committee member I lead, Ivan Ivanovich Mihovich, for taking the initiative in preparing this draft decision. But given the scientific expertise's comments, we need to make changes now, bring them into line with the scientific and expert management's comments: the title of the determination in this edition of "The 90s Tragedy at Talergof concentration camp." The other one. Since Talergophe was created not in spring, but in September, in the first paragraph of the draft, the word "spring" should be replaced by the word " fall." In this first paragraph, replace the word "after tragic events" with the word "treasure," referring to its beginning. And then in the draft regulations, it's about Bukovin, Galicin and Zacarpathian, but it's about writing "in the Chernivetske, Lvivsky, Ternopilsky, Ivano-Frankivsky and Zacarpathian regions." For uniform use of the terms "Office of the Ministers of Ukraine" and "government" paragraphs 2 and 3 unite into one. And in paragraph 4, the term "delegation" should be replaced by the term "recommendation." The committee unanimously decided to approve, to take this decision as a whole. People's deputies, please. And I want to add to that what impresses me is that this proposal comes from a member of the Communist Committee. The Communists also have national consciousness.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u128	Yes. Dear colleagues, let's vote! You're welcome to mobilize. In doing so, I would like to ask that we agree with those suggestions and additions that I have made to this decision by a committee of profile, especially in the title that this is the 90th anniversary of the Talergof concentration camp and the changes that were proposed in the report by Hennady Josephovich. [[for the stenogram]] Is there any objection? I'm voting for acceptance as a basis and in general the 90-years of tragedy in Talergof concentration camp, registration number 5382. Please vote. [[13:10:44]] For 207 Oh, well, let's have a look at the faction. "Our Ukraine" -88; Regions -0; Communists -46; Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" -0; National Agrarian -17; Socialists -15; Block Timoshenko -19; Alliance, "Centre", "One Ukraine" -0; NDP -14; Democratic Initiatives -0; Non-fractional -8. I'm asking you to mobilize. Ready? I'm betting on voting for a decision on the basis and in general. Vote. [[13:11:39]] For 218. Hair, please, microphone. Kosiva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u129	Mikhailo Kosov. Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to address you as the presiding officer who is constantly trying to follow the letter of the Rules. I think let's do it the way we've done it. We've discussed this. And the next is followed by another jubilee of the Holocaust of the Roma. This is a very important question. If we fail it, it will simply be embarrassing for the entire ethnic minority in our country. Let's take the full time, the basic time, and the extra time, and without a break, let's postpone the voting on these issues for the next week. Because once again, if we fail them, we just have to think of them as being rejected. And it would be very sad if we really did.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u130	Mikhail Vasilovich, I think we'll do well. Please, Shurma, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u131	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I was forced to take the floor by the presence of the highly respected Ambassador of Canada, who is sitting on the second floor and watching democratically vote. Ambassador, I'd like you to pay attention, there's a man in the faction of "Our Ukraine" who works very actively. This is Mr. Tomenko. He is now eight times simply the basis for the leader of Victor Yushchenk's block, voting for all the bills. I would like you to take into account, in assessing the work of our Parliament, who is the provoker and who has its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, put your hands down. Put your hands down. I'd like that. Don't make any noise. I'm in this room asking for a lineup. I can't see the Ambassador of Canada. Is there an ambassador here? So put your hands down. We have no embassies and no embassies to give us. We'll figure it out. School, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u133	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I'd like to say that we can really do it this way. Try to vote again, because the Talergofu tragedy is a tragedy that unites everyone. There's no question of what's in this room other than the so-called nonexistent majority, who's against it? So the one who doesn't vote is against it. And when we didn't make it. Well, really, you know, the situation is tense, the election's coming. We're having a process discussion. People are impressed by the shameful processes that are taking place. And most of all. You know, there's this saying that if you don't participate in the festival, you don't have to discuss the quality of the celebration. If the factions of the U.S.S.P.U., the "Regions of Ukraine", the "Union" have already been identified to ignore the activities of the Supreme Council, to ignore the activities of the higher legislative body, then it is not necessary to call on the ambassador and put him in an awkward position, to evaluate those processes in which you do not participate. So I ask, let's put it to the vote one more time and vote on the Holocaust of the Roma and Talergoth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much. Do not politicize a question that is understandable to all. Have some restraint. We are all interested in accepting these decisions. We'll take them now. I'm voting on a 90-year-old Tragic Order at Talergof concentration camp. Registration number 5382. Please vote. [[13:16:14]] For 219 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 93, "Regions" - 0, Communists - 50, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" - zero, National Agrarian Party - 18, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, "Union", "One Ukraine", "Centre" - zero, NDP, industrialists, entrepreneurs - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 7. Let's do it this way: now we're going to listen to another rule, then we're going to define. Please, Hennady Josephovich. There's a draft decree on the 60th anniversary of the Holocaust of Roma in Ukraine. Registration number 5530. Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! The long - suffering people of the Roma are being revived, and this is being promoted by the processes that are taking place in international relations among the national minorities in our country. This is supported by legislation, a fairly progressive ethnopolitical legislation in Ukraine. An Association of Roma of Ukraine was formed. She is actively involved in the work of our committee. There were 60 years of Holocaust, the destruction of Ukraine’s massive Roma in Kiev, Crimea, Vinnitsky, Zakarpatski, Odessky, and so forth. This year marks the 60th anniversary of that tragedy. You're looking at the draft Order on the International Day of the Holocaust of Roma, because it's already a specific date of 60 years, it's over, and we need to make an international date. Therefore, some additions to this decision, particularly the observance of the International Day of the Holocaust of Roma, should be made in accordance with the observations of scientific and expert management. Then, paragraph one, mark, starting in 2004, add, and so forth by text. Paragraph two "to assign the Cabinet of Ministers" and paragraph 4 "to recommend To the State Committee on Nationalities, and in the text, "to carry out the actions that have been taken towards the International Day of the Holocaust of Roma, particularly in the 1960s. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. The nation is being reborn, today we have 41,000 Roma, although experts believe that there are 200,000 of them. Let us pay due respect to this suffering people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u136	Yes, have a seat, please. Incorruptible, one minute, please. We'll vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u137	Gennady Josephovich, go. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Well, dear colleagues, I understand, for example, as we all have here, that we have to perpetuate the memory of the victims of the tragedy, but to do so in a way that is truly worthy of being done. And that's why I have comments and suggestions on the third paragraph of the ruling. It says, "To the committees of the Supreme Council, together with the relevant ministries and departments, in an orderly manner, to study the inclusion of victims in the circle of victims." I mean, it's still being offered to study, well, I don't know, conferences, colaquiums, maybe a year, maybe two, maybe ten. So I suggest, well, first of all, we rule out. These are the central organs of the executive branch, but the main thing is not to study the question, but to take action and make proposals to include the victims of the Roma Holocaust in the circle of persons, because they are already victims, there is nothing to study. There are specific suggestions to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u138	Thank you. We have a representative of the State Committee. Please, what's the position? Nationalities and migration. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear National Deputies, the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration generally supports this draft decision. And the remarks of the national MP Bespalogo are correct. I think we can make this right. And in general, we are working to make the Roma feel in Ukraine as citizens of our nation, integrate into our society. We've got the whole program, we're working with them. So it would be very good both in the eyes of Europe and our people and in general for the cause.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u139	So we have reasons. Nobody insists anymore? Please, Chef Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I don't think this question raises any doubts in this room. But in view of what Mikhailo Kosov has already said and the objective situation in the hall today, also taking into account the importance of this issue, I feel that we should not even conduct a trial vote that may not reach 226 votes. So maybe we really need to take the path Michael Kossov spoke and postpone the vote for the next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u141	Roman Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, all in your hands. There are 254 cards registered in the hall, 254. I'm voting on the decree on the 60th anniversary of the Holocaust of Roma in Ukraine, registration number 5530. Please vote mobilized. [[13:22:48]] For 223 Dear colleagues, we'll take a look at the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 95, "Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 55, Social Democrats, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 18, Socialists - 20, Tymoshenko - 14, "Union" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, "Centre" - 0, NDP and industrialists and entrepreneurs - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 7. Yeah, did you find the reserves? We've got it. Then please, I'm voting on the decree to mark the 60th anniversary of the Holocaust of the Roma in Ukraine. Registration number 5530. Please vote. [[13:23:49]] For 224 Please, by the factions. Who doesn't? Look, please. Please look at your neighbors. Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to go to Mr. Shurma, who here is the only representative of the non-vote faction of the SDPU, and remind you that it is in the concept of this faction that there is cooperation and assistance for all national minorities and the struggle for their equality, for ensuring rights in Ukraine. Thus, his voice is essentially lacking in order for us to finally adopt that decree. What is more important — the interests of the nations or the temporary decree of the false faction? Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u143	Yes, I'm voting on the decree on the 60th anniversary of the Holocaust of Roma in Ukraine. Registration number 53. Sorry, 5530. Please vote. [[13:25:38]] For 226 Please don't relax. I'm voting on a 90-year-old Tragic Order at Talergof concentration camp. [[Registration number 5382]] Vote. [[13:26:08]] For 230 Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine - 98, Regions - 0, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, Deminiciates - People's Government - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 15, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, Union - 0, Ukraine - 0, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 14, Center - 0, non-fractional - 8. Please, school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u144	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I actually have this proposal that's already been made in the hall. I just wanted to sound it for the transcript. I would suggest and demand that the results of this vote be made public by two decrees: the Talergoph and the Holocaust, in our newspaper Voice of Ukraine, so that all members of the national minorities, by faction, are known by name, by faction, by nationality. I want everyone to know who he's speaking for. Because even when we cannot spend time in the Ukrainian Parliament, because g is with him that there was a famine in Ukraine, at least we are obliged to support the world’s recognition of the Holocaust because it is a proven fact. And those who haven't voted in this room right now, those who are now ignoring and destabilizing Parliament's work actually have to get a clear position in the paper to let their voters know about it, so that they can make the mistakes they made next time by delegating those who are ruining Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u145	Okay, we're giving this protocol assignment. Dear colleagues! Let's get to the last question of order of the day. Five seconds of Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you not to pay today's salary for the factions that are walking, and that's the factions of the oligarchs, they are. They're not in the workplace, they're not paid any wages. They're walkers! Please give this order, it's consistent with the law, it's consistent with the Constitution, it's consistent with justice, it's against the Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainian people still have to support them. Get the fat cats out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u147	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I can't give this order, because first of all, it refers to the known committees, it's the committees, it's not the leadership of the Supreme Council, and second of all, you're not scaring them, so. We turn to the information of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Provisional Special Commission on Monitoring the Implementation of Legislation on Elections of the President of Ukraine on the status of compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act in respect of the principle of equal conditions for the conduct of pre-election agitation by candidates for the post of President of Ukraine, using media tools for all forms of ownership and proposals for improving Ukrainian legislation. The commission that you and I formed from monitoring issues led by the Head of the Supreme Council, after considering this issue, is proposing this regulation today. From the Provisional Special Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Monitoring will report to Zvaric, from the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine-Ji Ivan Sergiyovich, from the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, deputy head of Shevchenko Vitali Fedorovich - 5 minutes report, 5 answers. [[10 minutes of the report and 5 minutes of the answer]] [[5 minutes report and 5 answers]] From the committee of our profile for five minutes, a report by the head of the committee of Tomenka. And the secretaries of Melniczuk's commission have been briefed for up to five minutes on the work of this commission. This is the rule of our information today. Is there no objection? That's 45 minutes. Then let's move on to reality. A member of the temporary special commission, Zvaricz Roman Mikhailovich, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u148	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, I would also ask for permission to accompany some of the graphic illustrations prepared by our commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u149	No objection, dear colleagues? Then I'm asking the pleasure system to show the footage that there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u150	Thank you. Please show the first slide.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u151	The first slide, the reporter's portrait appeared.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Elections Act clearly regulates the activities of the media, particularly in the part of the election campaign and the provision of a level playing field and the possibility of holding a pre-election campaign by candidates for the post of President of Ukraine. There is no doubt that the law maximizes the principles of justice, objectivity, and transparency in the media’s election campaign. It should be noted, however, that despite the existence of clear legislation in electoral legislation on the use of media in electoral campaigns, the experience of pre-election campaigning in 2004 has already demonstrated their ignorance and non-execution by public authorities, law enforcement agencies, mostly by the majority of candidates for the post of President of Ukraine and their electoral headquarters. An analysis of the objective information provided by the temporary special committee by individual NGOs and professional journalists listed in the analysis note. I would like to emphasize that the temporary special commission has also been prepared to provide any information technically prepared for you today. All we've got is in these additions to this analytic note. So this information allows for a few general conclusions. They can be divided into several categories. The first category. Involvement in the information and radio programs of pre-election advertising, what I would call hidden political advertising. What is expressly prohibited in article 10 of this law. In addition, part three of article 58 of the law states that the pre-election campaign does not deal with official reports during the election process on the actions of candidates for the office of President. This first diagram clearly shows who of the candidates receives the most attention on our national television channels. This is, of course, the acting Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. Its concentration rate is almost 27 percent. If you take the population's attention rate to the four of these biggest, most popular candidates. It'll be Vitrenco, Simonenko, Frost and Yushchenko. Their total attention rate is just 19 percent. So these figures themselves, I think, are very clear about the fact that there is already a very harsh violation of electoral legislation in this part. Show me the second slide, please. This information is now broken down into some television channels. If you look carefully again, because it's hard to read, first of all, again through the New Channel and through the ICTV with a huge breakout, there's a focus coefficient given to Viktor Janukovic. Next slide, please. This trend is repeated again on the TV channel "STB" and, by the way, there is a difference in the weight ratio given to current Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. And of course, the 5 channel gives more attention than the previous channels, to Victor Andriovich Yushchenka's candidacy. Although even on this channel there are other candidates for the President, you can see for yourself that the dynamics are not as impressive as on the previous three channels. I'll ask for another slide. We've also broken down this coefficient of attention to what's called positive and negative information. The chart on the right shows us how the information about our candidates is presented on national television. The focus is, of course, on Yanukovich. This is the yellow part of his column. This is positive information. The green part of this column is negative information. I'd like you to compare this column to Victor Andryovich Yushchenka's column, where the green part of the column is much larger. So the negative information about Victor Andryovich's candidacy is just amazing. Instead, the candidature of Frost, Simonenka, and Kinach is virtually no negative information, even though very little attention is given to these candidates in relative proportion. The diagram on the left is much different from the dynamics we see in the previous diagram. This is a national press. Here attention is paid to more than just a candidate than the opposition forces, Victor Andriovich Yushchenka. But instead, the green part of this column is just worrying. That is, much more negative information in our national press is by Yushchenka than by positive. Although in the interests of fairness and objectivity, it should also be noted that negative information about the current prime minister is also higher than positive information about him and his candidacy, which appears in the national press. I'd just like to point out that our campaign is primarily presented in the national press as a negative campaign, which is much more negative than positive. Next slide, please. Now, please look at the chart on the right-hand side of this slide. This is about regional television. And compare the Yushchenka column, this is the second column, with the Janukovich column. Very much attention, almost twice, or more than twice as much attention is given to Yushchenka's regional television candidature, but almost all the information, almost everything on regional television, is negative information about this candidate. In addition to the fact that Janukovic is nearly 2.5 times behind on regional television news reports, virtually no negative information about him is available on regional television. Equally disturbing is the fact that on regional television virtually no other candidates are mentioned on different channels. This, of course, cannot help but cause anxiety. I think we should as legislators pay attention to this fact. As for the regional press, once again the situation here is very different from that of regional television. The candidature of current Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič is given great, great attention, and there is almost twice as much positive information about him, although there is a lot of negative. You see, you can draw your own conclusions, you can't help but cause anxiety again, a little attention to other candidates, the Ukrainian national MPs, in the regional press. This is the first category of infringements. The second category of violations is the unmotivated refusal of the media, in particular state and municipal property, to individual presidential candidates in the placement of advertising materials at the expense of the personal electoral fund. The third category. A particularly dangerous thing to do, and I would like to make a particular emphasis on that, is today's presidential election campaign has the practice of distributing the media, particularly the state-wide television channels, which call for international hostility to start. I'm not going to go through other categories now. It's all given to you, it's in an analytical note. I would just like to draw attention to the conclusions that should be drawn from this information. I'm going to ask 30 seconds to continue my time. In view of the foregoing, such general conclusions can be drawn. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u153	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u154	electoral campaign is characterized by massive violations of electoral legislation. The other one. The impunity of individual media and presidential candidates is explained, on the one hand, by inadequate mechanisms for punishing the guilty and, on the other hand, by the direct involvement of the executive authorities in the electoral process. And the third conclusion. The extent of violations of electoral legislation in this area is so great that it is no longer possible to talk about ensuring the principles of democracy, justice and equal access to the media, which is a direct duty of executives, law enforcement agencies and prosecutors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u155	Thank you. There's a question. Please press the buttons. Let me explain. Five minutes. Joulinsky. After him, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u156	Giulinsky Mikola, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Tell me, Mr. Romane, are you aware of any reactions: both the State Committee on Radio and Television and the Commission, which should monitor compliance, particularly with regard to regional press, regional radio, and television. Were there any signals and were there any cases of any sort of order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u157	First of all, regarding the Temporary Special Commission. We are not a commission of inquiry, we are a special commission with very clearly defined constitutionally defined mandates. I mean, we don't have the right to conduct any kind of investigation, so we didn't have the right to take any claims or complaints or anything like that. In general, we did nothing but gather information and try to draw this information into a clear analytical way so that some general conclusions could be drawn. Instead, the conclusions that we can draw today are that there is a lack of response not only by law enforcement agencies to these many, just mass cases of violations of electoral legislation in the part that regulates media activity. I would also like to point out that individual public authorities have the ability to apply certain sanctions on the media, whether it will be broadcasters or printed media. For some reason they do not use their legal powers. Perhaps it is because the legislator did not clearly establish the causal, as it were, involvement of the violator with the sanctions to be applied to him. In this regard, we will also invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept amendments and additions to existing legislation so that this part can still be spelled out more clearly and that the relevant authorities of the State are simply forced to apply such sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u158	Please, Baranowski. After him, Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u159	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, please tell us if you have analyzed why such prices for posting propagandist roles for candidates, especially in the regional media, are not nearly anyone can pay. The other one. Is your commission going to send the appropriate response documents, say, to the Attorney General's Office, in those offices that you called, for those violations that are currently in place. Is there anything that can be evenled at the end of the election campaign? And the third question. I'd like to see you, Ivan Sergiyovich Chiji. Ivan Sergiyovich, I want to address you. The point is, on regional television, I'll take Zitomir, you're holding retired Boyke, who threw that TV into the grave, and the journalists who are there, they could do something, they could do something, they could do something, they could do something with their hands tied. And, of course, he does not allow anyone there, fearing release as a pensioner. Maybe you should figure it out. I know you're good there. Please give me the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u160	As for the first question. Again, I want to remind you that our commission is not a commission of inquiry. The Constitution empowers the investigating commissions to direct the conclusions of such a commission, a commission of inquiry, to the appropriate authorities, including, above all, the authorities of the prosecutor’s office, to respond properly. Although the Constitution makes it very clear that neither the court nor the prosecutor’s office is obliged to take into account the findings of the commission of inquiry. Instead, the Constitution does not give special commissions such rights. Instead, I want to put a particular emphasis on this, because I don't want this to be an initiative on the part of any national MP, a member of our commission. Absolutely, let us allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt an appropriate decision that would oblige the special commission to direct its findings to the relevant public authorities. Once again, I think it would be a good idea if it were an initiative from any of the legislators except the members of this committee. It's about prices. This is not an issue, i.e. it is not subject to regulation by the President of Ukraine Election Act. And since we can act solely on the basis of current legislation, this issue was not a subject of our consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u161	Roman Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. I'll fix you up a little bit. The President's Elections Act states that the media are setting prices for political advertising at the price of the previous months, more faithfully, the last term of the previous year. So what were the December 2003 rates, that's what they should be now. Please, Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u162	Ukraine’s Republican Party, Leukko Lukyanenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Mr. Roman, I'd like to ask you a question like this. Yesterday in our room, we heard Zinchenko announce that biological weapons were used against our candidate Victor Yushchenk. How did it happen that this extremely important information for all of our 38 million voters was not reported in the same state and private television companies? Is this a distortion of the atmosphere in which we prepare for elections? In your opinion, I ask you to answer that question. And the second question. We were with you and saw you personally at the bottom of the teacher, and I was still at the bottom of the doctors when doctors said they were forced to vote for Yanukovich. Doctors say that they are forced to vote for Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u163	I think I've understood the meaning of your second question, Mr. Leukko, but let me do it in turn. First of all, with regard to the information that came out today, yesterday, I'm sorry, in the Supreme Council session hall, about the use of biological weapons against one of the candidates, against Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenk, of course, this is, for me, I say here, not the position of the commission, but my subjective opinion, should be the subject of information that should be heard by the media. You realize that the fact that national television channels have failed or distorted this information to some extent is now evidence that there are reasons, I emphasize, that there is a reason for talking about the involvement of executive authorities in their work. I point out that I am talking about the reasons, not the individual charges. As for the second question. I would just like to remind all the voters of Ukraine that no one can force you to vote in the urine or anything else, that according to the 157, 158 and 159 articles of the Criminal Code, such acts are appropriately classified as criminal acts. And on them a person, including an official or a ministerial servant, who works in public authorities should be held criminally accountable. And it seems to me that the media should also report the relevant messages in their own resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u164	Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u165	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, today we are witnessing how in the media, known to be a virtually total anti-European anti-American campaign. Expensive attempts to form enemies in the mass consciousness of Ukrainians, even feelings of hatred toward other countries. Do you have information about the response of the central authorities, the competent authorities? Because it's no longer an outbreak of national hostility, and once again, I emphasize, it has very serious consequences. After all, the elections will end, and this hatred for countries, including the world’s leading ones, will certainly be very bad to influence not only the image in the country but, in general, its future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u166	Mr. Oleg, in order to be brief, I will not repeat what you said. I'm just going to speak on the basis of what's written in the law. I would like to say, first of all, that there seems to be an entirely sufficient legislative basis for the relevant public authorities to apply certain sanctions against such media that, contrary to criminal law and other laws, Ukraine is engaged in such things.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u167	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u168	One minute, I'm not done yet. I'd ask if I didn't mind when I did. I would like to emphasize, for example, that the second article of the Ukrainian Television Organizations Act sets out very clearly the principles that these television and radio organizations should be acting on. If I am not mistaken, article 31 of the same law clearly states that the National Council is obliged, obliged, I emphasize, to revoke the language license if the principles set out in article 2 of this law are violated. We don't see much movement on this particular issue where there are absolutely clear evidences of a violation of criminal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u169	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I continue our session until the finalization of this issue and invite the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of the Czech Republic, Ivan Sergiyovich. Please have five minutes of reports, five answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u170	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Before I give you the general information, I'd like to do three trailers then we'll probably understand each other better. First. In addition to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, no one has annulled information legislation, including the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, including the Information Act, including the Law on Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government in Ukraine through the Media. The other one. The Presidential Elections Act did not actually install the State Television and Radio Committee into its implementation. There is one reference to the State Committee, where it is obliged to determine the weighted average and distribute the candidate programs so that they do not intersect. All of it. Third. We're not the branch of any election headquarters. The State Television and Radio Committee is a constitutional government body that carries out its activities exclusively and only within the framework of the current Ukrainian legislation. That's the way it's supposed to be. And with that in mind, we went four times, including to the Supreme Council, to all the institutions of the state, to the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, to the Central Electoral Commission, pointing to the legislative boards, to the fact that we are dealing with very often with problems in the information field of elections as it is convenient. And we are always faced with the problem, its exacerbation, not the solution. So I am absolutely convinced that we should respond to the recommendations that came out of the scientific and practical conference "Equality of Opportunities" initiated by the committee and sent them to the institutions that I mentioned and respond accordingly. After all, if you ask the question, is there an equal opportunity for elections today? So you have to be clear, clearly not. And this inequality is not even subjective, but more objective, related to the real situation in legislation. Once again, I say that it works in parallel with electoral legislation. And there's a lot more to the people's MP, a candidate for presidents of any kind, much more on the air than just a candidate without a "national deputy" and a prime minister, much more so, because he's an active prime minister. And this is not just a problem of Ukrainian legislation, it's not just the Ukrainian situation, it's a problem that exists all over the world. Therefore, this needs to be taken into account further in clarifying legislation. There are very serious problems, not only moral-ethical, but which can have consequences both legal and social consequences, which are what we see in the information tools -- irreconcilability in the means. The slanderous nature of activity, the opposition, against one another's electoral headquarters, the call to disturb civil calm, the incitement to violence, is interethnic hostility, and there are problems of a different nature. This can have really sad consequences. I think that's what the Supreme Council and all the authorities should be very active about. With regard to the State Committee on Television and Radio. We have fully complied with the legislation related to the publication of the presidential candidates’ programmes, the completion of October 7th, and we will implement the absolute standards related to television debates, the beginning of this procedure since October 11. We have every complaint that we have. Or the request of representatives of the National Deputies' headquarters to comment on legislation, find an immediate response, we're very active in expertise, we're making appropriate proposals, and there's no case of, let's say, any comment. Today, the statistics are that the CEVC came to the beginning of October, for example, 32 were complaints about radio organizations, without implementation, without consideration, because they were groundless. Part of the complaints, of which 14 complaints on printed media have been rejected, are satisfied: three by information, two by radio organization. I want to stress that there is pressure, especially on public broadcasters, and we often forget that the influence of the State Committee on Television and Radio is on a very narrow range of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u171	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u172	Thank you. We have a huge array of non-state commercial media that are not as much integrated into electoral legislation as government. Obviously, this is also a lack of legislation that needs to be taken into account. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u173	Thank you. Let's sign up for questions. Please point to the board. Five minutes. The miner, he's got Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u174	Ivan Sergiyovich, you said quite correctly that in addition to electoral legislation, there is general legislation. So how do those organs that are subordinated to you look at a demonstration on many channels, a map that's been mapped out into three parts of Ukraine? I am no longer saying that what is given under Class One is actually discriminated against by the 2004 budget. It's just that Ukraine's been torn apart, calls for civil war. And the last card in front of me is issued at the State Administration by the Party of the Regions. All of Yushchenko is said to have eliminated the Ukrainian army and the military industry, set up U.S. control, cut off any ties with Russia. Find such items in Yushchenka’s program. Is that not the basis for closing this printery of the Dusi and opening a criminal case against the Party of the Regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u175	Thank you. I'd rather not answer within my jurisdiction. As a national MP, I would tell you what a national MP would be like here. I would even say that today's hearings are also an advantage to one another: either one of the political powers, or part of the political powers, because not all candidates are national MPs, I emphasize, and not all candidates are prime ministers. So I'm not commenting on what you just said. There is a court, there are mechanisms prescribed in legislation. Act in accordance with existing legislation. As far as public broadcasting is concerned, it's the only island that can objectively publish the program and be a candidate on the air. That's a fact. I'm in charge of this direction, and I'm not ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u176	Please, Lukyanenko. After him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Semenjuk Valentini.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u178	Please, Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u179	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Ivan Sergiyovich, I have more questions regarding the publication of "Press of Ukraine." Tell me, are you taking care of them or not? And what kind of contacts do you today have about the equality of printing media in this state-owned enterprise? Although I understand that it is in the State Administration today. But if you look at it, here's the card we removed. So it turns out that the press of Ukraine, as it's already written. printed using the property of the Ukrainian political party, that is, it turns out that by those decrees of the President who are not subject to publication, the publication has already been either "adopted" by the Ukrainian party or already, God knows what it's done. I think so. Together, Adam Ivanovich, I will ask and make a depot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u180	Thank you. The Press of Ukraine is not part of the National Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u181	Please, Manchulenka. And it's possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u182	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Ivan Sergiyovich, after your report, I'd like to mention the familiar phrase, "It's all quiet in Baghdad!".. But unfortunately, "in Baghdad" is not peaceful, that is, in our Ukraine it is not peaceful, because even after yesterday's disgraceful report by Sevkovic, how it was aired even by state television, it was shameful, and you have a direct attitude towards state television. You have to influence this state television to ensure that it adheres to any electoral legislation. And if you cannot influence, you must act as a decent person accordingly. You said that you represent decent and just authority. I highly doubt that this authority is, in other words, decent. If you feel that you are a decent person, resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u183	Thank you for your advice. I'll say you're in power too, because you're a national MP, you're not out of the street. That's the first one. It's different. Retirement. I'm not ashamed of my work on the State Committee in one day, because if it had been done to us, fortunately, in these 2.5 years, we would have been very far away, not where we are now. It's a friend. And the third trailer. We showed the Supreme Council yesterday, the People's Deputy. Change the legislation. Tell me we don't have to show it, we won't do it. I have no right to interfere with the programming policy of any channel and I will not do it! Otherwise it wouldn't be me anymore. There is legislation, let us read and observe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u184	Please, Grosjev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u185	Ivan Sergeyevich, given that our authority is clearly in compliance with the law on the use of television, I have no questions. But I do. My colleague Baranov has a question on this. Give him the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u186	Baranowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u187	Thank you, Anatoly Dmitrievich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Ivan Sergiyovich, I raised this question. I think you're making some sort of order there, something is what I'm seeing. In Level, you put order on the TV company, it'll go somewhere, because I'm fixed by a faction, I know. And from Zitomir. A retired man led a district television company into the grave. They've already lost those hours today, and there's no time for them to pass on any of the local information. At a time like this, no one can look anymore. The hardware is running. I understand there's a problem with funding everywhere, there's talented journalists, we could do something. Retired, well, how long can you keep it? It's already in your office.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u188	When I was standing here on my assignment, it was two and a half years ago, and I said I wouldn't have a six. So let me solve the human resources issues, how this is done by law, according to the position that I am working for. This is one, this is one. And that's how I'm going to do it. It's different. This isn't Boyk's question, and it's not even to me that we lost our license. It's the National Council, you're going to ask why it happened. That's two. Third. The company's not the worst place in the world. But if you do not have a personal relationship, what is very sad is that we will be able to deal with it. But I'm convinced that you can't bring a situation, a conflict problem, as it were, into generalization. Believe me, I've got plenty of opportunities to get my hands on the footage and take action. We're doing it. So thank you for the tip, but I'll do it. How do I know how to run the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u189	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. The word has the deputy head of the National Television and Radio Board, Vitaly Shevchenko. 5 minutes report, 5 answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u190	f. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The legislator left the National Council with few opportunities for disciplinary intervention in the media during electoral campaigns, and we, therefore, decided a year ago to complete the 2004 electoral campaign in the direction of further decisions in this direction, both the Supreme Council and the President. Nevertheless, we tried to do something about it. In particular, in keeping with our recommendation on official agitation, we set up a group to monitor accordingly what is happening in the field of television and radio. We're going to keep monitoring television broadcasts, and we're going to be giving material to the Centre until the end of the election. And we're looking at individual complaints. As an example of this work, literally two days ago, we had a detailed analysis of the situation in the group, which is that on the air of national television organizations, in particular, studios "1+1!, ICTV, Inter, New Channel are playing anonymous video, their authors question the integrity of Ukraine, graphically depicting it divided into three parts of different classes. This is a violation of article 64 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the dissemination in any form of material that calls for violations of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a state prohibited by law. TV and STB channels have featured commercials that are listed as social commercials. None of them directly refer to the candidate for the Presidential Post, but the images of any candidate are clearly passed in the performances of the mini-smokers, the worker, the student. The authorship of this pre-election campaign, as well as its funding, remain out of frame. Typical signs of electoral legislation violations recorded during the monitoring of national television channels, as an example, from September 26 to October 3. The most serious among them is political agitation, advertising on an unwarranted basis. This is especially true of the headquarters of the candidates Yanukovic, Boyk, Kinach, to a different extent. Especially is the headquarters of candidate Yanukovic intensive polytreklama and other advocacy activities in favour of this candidate, who ran on the Kiev TV channels, well, the figures today were called, but on illegal grounds, because the corresponding contracts with the television company only made this headquarters on September 23 with "1+1", September 24 with the National Television Company of Ukraine, September 30 with "New Channel" and with "Inter" or with ICT, if this is not done last night, there are no agreements to date. Candidate Boyke's headquarters entered into a contractual polytregal relationship with NTCU on September 21st, with "1+1" on September 22nd. Kinaha headquarters, September 1+1, September 24th, with Ukrainian National Television, September 27th. Nothing is known about the agreements of similar candidates, Omelchenk. Nevertheless, his political agitation is going on intensely, and his volume is increasing. Article 64 of the Presidential Election Act prohibits the participation of executive authorities and local authorities, their officials and officials in a pre-election campaign. The information programs show no less the performances of officials who use advertising materials. Well, a few examples. On October 5, the Prime Minister of Ukraine addressed citizens or voters of Ukraine with a pre-election speech, and state broadcasters broadcast it on the air. The second example is similar. Involvement in the information programs of Inter and the National Television Company of Ukraine of presentations by the Minister of Education and Minister for Family Affairs and young people using pre-election campaign materials for the benefit of candidate Yanukovic. Or another example. On September 29, on the 5th, Mayor Kyiv Omelchenko interviewed, who is also one of the candidates for the presidency. The main topic of the interview was his own election platform, which he even stressed, and the main programming positions of the Unity Party that he heads, and which put him on the job. In publishing the results of a poll on public opinion in connection with the election of the President, organizations often do not meet the requirement to identify the outputs of sociological research and so on, as recorded in Tonis. And the typical violation is also the inclusion in the information TV and radio programmes of the pre-election campaign materials of candidates for the presidency. Last week, for example, information on the government's decision to compensate citizens' contributions in 2005 was published in the media. Some channels, such as "ICTV" during.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u191	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u192	Unfortunately, there is little material. They supplied the materials of Tihypak, the head of the electoral headquarters, which is already more than a direct acknowledgment. All of these materials, I emphasize, we don't have direct powers to react. We're handing them over to the Central Elections. And we could use some of the measures, but it's already in line with their feed. We had individual complaints from candidates. We responded to them according to valid electoral legislation. Thank you. I'm sorry. A little bit of information. But I'm giving essentially the official National Council. In the absence of time, I couldn’t afford any more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u193	Do you want to ask? Please sign up. Please, five minutes. Lighten up. Yavorowski, followed by Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u194	Vladimir Yavorowski. My dear fellow, this is where the freshness is now in our hands. You don't know anything about her yet. Printed by a huge circulation of millions, published by the State Administration, is theirs. A card like that, a party of "Regions." On the one hand, what a good Yanukovich, who'll do anything. On the other hand, listen to what they write. That Yushchenko wants to close the borders with Russia once. There will be a project of Crimean Tatar autonomy on the Crimean Peninsula. Turning the Ukrainian population into a cheap European labor force. Providing Ukraine to house harmful production and waste. Location of refugee camps in Ukraine Involved Ukraine in a ring of instability around Russia. Is it a crime or a crime? I ask you simply and as a professional journalist and as a member of the National Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u195	As a journalist, as an electorate, I don't like these things. Unfortunately, this does not apply to our direct sphere. But if the electoral boards come up with the same things about television and radio, we'll look at them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u196	Please, Melniczuk, follow him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u197	Mikhailo Melniczuk. I'm asking you to pass it on to my colleague, Mr. Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u198	Baranowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u199	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. I mean, Ivan Sergiyovich Chiji, I'm talking to you that I'm impressed by your reaction today to the remarks made by the Ukrainian national deputy. When the national deputy informs you about the swamp that started in the television company Zitomir, instead of thanking you, sending a commission, clearing up, informing the national deputy as you are bound by the law, you start reading, compiling personalities, and then in a form that is not heard by the hammock. I'd like to ask you to conduct and respond properly to the National MP's remarks. And I wanted to see you, Your Honor. Tell me, please, how do you protect the interests of the National Broadcasting Company, so let's say, the same district life-form when you're giving out licenses to anyone, and when the state doesn't have the ability to give people information at a good time because the licenses have already been sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u200	Well, I get it. The problems of the Zitomir district holding company are similar to those of others. They need to be addressed in the world with all these problems that have been on the air at various national television companies. But there were a lot of concerns on the side of the National Council, including today, but not at the time the National Council transferred the companies from the third channel to the first, it was from the initiative of the other organs. Then, not the National Council, but other authorities took the initiative to transfer them from the first channel to the second channel. And they did it even without the decision of the National Council, which is not allowed by law. And then, when it came to licensing free slots on the second channel, a little bit, a little time, we got the appropriate authorities from the relevant services to support the Cultura channel, and a few days later another teleorganization. That's how it ended. That is, a solid state line with regard to national television companies, the National Council felt nothing. I don't think she needs to make accusations that she's not being very careful about the problems of these speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u201	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear reporter, first of all, I'd like to pay attention to yours and ask for your thoughts and yours and the bodies that are represented here. See, when there's political advertising going on, it's separate. And who determines the sequence? That determines the channel, is that channel policy? Especially when these provocative antichicken roller skates come along, they always go at the beginning of official advertising and at the end. And it's kind of like this whole commercial thing. And it happens very often like this: political advertising starts, this anti-roll comes, then the official video ends with an anti-roll, and it says "political advertising." ends the entire political bloc. Such blocks exist on Inter, on UT-1, on 1+1, and on all other channels that support the existing regime. The assessment of yours and the body you represent here, because it's actually a tendency to place political advertising products in order to create a certain negative impression on the viewer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u203	Well, I think it's obvious to everyone that someone is somehow correcting all of this. But it seems to me that both these things, and some of the other things, are not working together with the election headquarters, not using the possibility of bringing them to court, to the territorial election commission. Because of a similar plan, what facts do we still have? Let's say the M-1 music channel said it wouldn't run political agitation, and at the same time it ran frontal acknowledgments like "Youth for" -- young "against" on the air. Or, let's say the radio was being talked about today, the lips were giving us information, "Russia Radio," "Hit-FM, they're not going to do it in August, in fact, they have this kind of agitation going on, and there are complaints that some candidates are giving and others are refusing. Well, I think it's the same thing with "Onix-Melody," and I think that's exactly where we have to show a little bit more suspense to the candidates through the courts and through the election boards. What will be the outcome is already the subject of a separate discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u204	Yes, Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u205	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenko Block. Dear Vitalia Fedorovich, so that we did not hear this information today, exchanged our thoughts, expressed our indignation, and there would be no consequences. In principle, the National Council on Television and Radio for Open Violations of Electoral Law by Executive Authorities has the right to disqualify the licenses of television channels, radio channels, or others: for the tendency of the presidential election campaign? And the second question. "We can't do anything, here's the Nacradu sitting down, and she'll report it." So let's figure out who should or shouldn't blame and what should be done by electoral legislation. Because he says he was never and will never be, but the All-Ukrainian Union of the Left "Justice", which he heads, has supported the candidate from the Janukovic Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u206	Well, notes, of course, are yours. We can disqualify licenses on general grounds, not necessarily in terms of compliance with electoral legislation. But it's a very cumbersome process. As for the comments related to the election campaign, we can react if we are approached by appropriate electoral committees. There were no such references. One appeal may have been in connection with the statement of Zbitniv, but the Central Election Commission rejected the application itself. The fight took advantage of the right to address us, and that was, by the way, the only appeal of the candidate directly to the National Council. But we reacted in a similar way to the Central Electoral Commission, in which case there was no basis for our disciplinary intervention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u207	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u209	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, I wanted to inform you about the monitoring that the committee is doing and the experts we're working with. And I wanted to offer a slightly different view of this situation, because it's clear that formal and statistical analysis is a popular one. And I think it's very difficult to change it from the point of view of the number of names of the candidates to the presidents. Yet, given that the authorities did not spare the money, the oligarchs did not. And according to experts, 16 out of 26 presidential candidates are registered by two financial and political groups, so clearly they're signing up for the commercial they're given. They have never read it or looked only at that political advertisement on the screens. So to balance and ensure the principle of equal opportunities for at least 16 basic candidates, I think, of course, it's extremely difficult. There's another problem and there's a bigger problem that I'd like to pay attention to. It's a problem that sounds like this: "The election company today is turned into propaganda for the things that are enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine and which are unacceptable." Not written down. You don't need a presidential election law, you don't need a law on information, you don't need a law on disclosure, there's a Constitution and a Criminal Code. A clear criminal responsibility for inflaming international hostility is foreseen, for fueling relations between nations, regions, and countries. And when we have absolutely clear, clear facts that prove it, this is where the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs should intervene. Sadly, they do not do so because they have become an electoral campaign instrument, and they are more there on boards guarding or following the opposition than reacting to the law. That's the scary part. I drew the attention of the members of the commission to this fact and asked the representatives of the law enforcement authorities to be invited. My proposal was not supported because I don't see any law enforcement officials here, because in this case, both Nacrad and Derteradio, I understand that they would even want to do it, they're not going to be able to change the situation in principle, because this card that our colleagues in the Socialist Party have brought this card out from who? Victor Medvedchuk and Victor Janukovic. Because Bakaya is subordinated to the Head of the Presidential and Presidential Administration, and Janukovic heads the Party of Regions. Imagine what the director of the Press of Ukraine could do if Kuchma, Yanukovic and Medvedczuk told him to release this fake or false card. That is, at the level of the leaders of the state today goes to propagate the division of Ukraine, promote the idea of inter-national hostility and these candidates to the Presidents. We should forget about these candidates who put on political advertising, although they should also be criminally responsible. To appeal to the serious players who are organizing this manipulation that is happening today. And this manipulation, as you can understand, is already a sociological survey that shows that society is seriously concerned enough that maybe the really plan of Girinovsky, which is organized by the Ukrainian authorities, you know that he once said it was necessary for Ukraine to be within Galicina, and all the rest was in another state, looks like today the authorities are implementing this plan of Girinovsky. Perhaps something has changed in this country when the leaders of this nation promote these ideas in all the media? When we have the Minister of Transport personally acting, you know that on trains, tickets that fuel national hostility, the Minister of Railways is acting personally, and he is leading the railway, and the party is leading, and the transport is leading. You ask the leaders, they will tell you that it was in Kiev that we were obliged to hang these posters and protect them, and if we do not protect them, we will be removed from this work. Today is a serious impact that we are not talking about, foreign, criminal structures, on the electoral campaign. I turned to the head of the Security Service today, and I passed on the materials that we found. Those who came to us on a committee, according to which several criminal groups are currently funding a Russian club that is directly running an electoral campaign in Ukraine. Today, by the way, national channels, including government channels, do not show surveys by Ukrainian sociologists, they show a survey of a Russian club that has an equal share of the results as Ukrainian sociologists. So, what, we're already being driven by foreign crime by the state television system and the state radio system? So my deep conviction is that of the following. Today, we should listen to this question: (a) To invite the highest management of the country, the law enforcement authorities, and to hope that the National Council, the Central Electoral Commission, will be able to identify these violations and indeed everyone must understand, the owners of the channels, the owners of the newspaper, that if not during the electoral campaign, it will be necessary to take responsibility not only before the law but before criminal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u211	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite the Secretary of the Temporary Special Commission for Monitoring Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich. You've got something on your mind. No, there are no questions to these two reporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected radio listeners. According to the commission of the head of the temporary special commission, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvin, I studied the situation of compliance with the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine in part of the principle of equal conditions and proportionality in forming the composition of the territorial and regional electoral commissions. That was the assignment. For example, in several regions of Ukraine and in the temporary special committee, we can prove today’s information to you. So I've been studying this in the Kirovograd area, and so I'd like to talk to you and give you some examples. Activities of the territorial electoral commission, territorial constituency number 100 of the city of Kirovograd On September 25, 2004, at 21 hours, a local election committee was opened and held at Kirovograd, Charles Marx Street, 41. The opening of the panel was a violation of article 28, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act. Since only 28 members of the TVC participated in the session, which is less than two thirds of the total composition of the committee. Decision No. 375 of the Central Electoral Commission of 11.08.2004 and Decree No. 623 of 20.09.2004 approved the composition of this Commission of 43 members. 15 members of the committees were not notified of the TVC. Thus, the requirements of article 28, paragraph 4, of the Law have been violated. And so the head of the territorial electoral commission, number 100 of the constituency in his work, has violated the Ukrainian Elections Act of Ukraine, as a result of which the principle of proportionality has been violated in the formation of the divisional electoral commission in the territorial constituency of 100. With almost the same number of management positions applied for as President of Ukraine, the number of electors attached to the respective districts where the management positions are distributed among individual presidential candidates is nearly double. For example, 19 were appointed from Alexander Moroz, 21 from Yashchenka, 20 from Yanuković. Yet the number of electorates attached to the respective districts, where the management positions are allocated to Alexander Moroz, 17,000 voters, Yushchenko, 18,000 voters, and Janukovic, 38,000. A similar approach to the formation of election committees is used in the territorial constituencies number 103, number 104 of the city of Kyrovgrad. In the very city of Kirovograd, I became acquainted with the work of the headquarters of candidates for President Yanukovic, Yushchenka, Moroz Simonek. I was not able to verify the headquarters of the remaining candidates because I was able to determine their addresses. It is interesting for the CEC that local authorities submitted to the local election boards the nominations that were recommended earlier by Alexander Moroz and Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko. That's about 900 people. It was found that these individuals did not know that they had been formed by other candidates for the presidents of Ukraine, since they did not consent, they did not sign. I received a similar appeal from the Ravens region, the Corytsky region in the district of the 156th Gostian constituency, where, as part of the electoral committees, individuals were listed on behalf of candidates for the presidents of the Ukraine of Zbitnev, Volga, Basiluk and others, although they submitted a written statement from a candidate to the presidents of the Ukraine of Alexander Moroz. In the Mikolaiiv region, a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Petar Mikolaiovich Simonenka Matviev, Vladimir Josephovich, appealed to the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district for refusing the territorial constituency number. As part of the electoral panel, 16 individuals who have given written consent to be represented on the committees of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, TVK members in the territorial constituency number seven of Korobejnik and Ovčinnikov found that on 16.09.2004, a citizen of Philippe Ludmila, Makarovna, personally, submitted a nomination for office boards on behalf of such candidates for the presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u213	Finish up. You've got six minutes. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u214	Please. I'm done. Once again, I repeat, from the candidates of Zadushina - 162 statements, Jakovenka - 142, Volga - 164, Zbitnev - 161, Korczynski - 162, Basiluk - 152, Crnowil - 157, Kozak - 162. All these submissions were certified by the private notary of Kyiv City Notarial District of Honcharenko. This violates article two 67, paragraph three, of article 24. Today, there is information on the fact that U.S. education workers are being used to the fullest extent on top and health workers. So these are the conclusions. The central electoral commission, when forming the governing body of the territorial electoral commissions, failed to comply with the law on the proportionality of their composition. The other one. The territorial election committees, when the composition of the district commission was approved, allowed for a violation of article 28, paragraph 4, of the law. The example of Kirovograd, Crimea, and so forth. Their decisions were not legitimate, a total of less than two thirds. Third. The executive authorities have intervened widely on the issue of creating a list of candidates to be made up of district commissions. I have information that's in the Dnipropetrovsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u215	Mikhail Vasilovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u216	I'm done. This is the last example. In Dnipropetrovsk, constituency 24 reported on the quality composition of the electoral boards under the following scheme: most of them were swamps and oppositions. Most of them are known to have formed 1628. We know there are technical candidates. The pain. I don't understand who was taken by the authorities to the swamp by the candidates, let the presidential candidates find out. The opposition is known to have formed 468 positions of management of the district election boards. So I think there is a widespread violation of the current Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, and I will report accordingly to the head of our temporary special commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-08-m0.u217	Thank you. But report there on compliance with the Rules. We've completed our discussion of the committee's information, just as we have completed our full implementation today of the agenda for today's session day. The following week, national deputies will work in committees, factions, and groups. On October 12th at the morning session, the Government Day is held with the following question: "Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision on the Summary of Child Health in the Summer of 2003 and the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the organization of rest and the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2004". The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on October 19, 2004. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
