ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:36]] Registered -441 Four hundred and forty - four national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, on February 26, 2004, after a long illness, a serious illness came to life by our colleague Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovsky, who was an extremely honest, decent man, a talented scientist, and a well - known politician. Please honor his memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] . Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Olegovich and Anatoly Ivanovich. Let's also welcome them with birthday, we wish. Yes, here I'm told that Lyszczynski is only 40 years old. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with the Rules, I inform Ukraine's budget that, in connection with the application, the Ukrainian national deputy, Czarnovil Taras Viacheslavovich, has ceased to be a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction. Yes. Dear colleagues, with motives, please, or procedure. From what? Please sign up. Three minutes. On the board, please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, I have a few questions. First of all, I'd like you to know, it's a sad date, the day of the death of the National MP, to support the Supreme Council for the placement of a memorial table at the Kyiv Police Institute, where he taught and with some fate of life, and creativity, and the scientific work of Michael Pavlovsky. So I would like this to be supported by the Supreme Council not only by an initiative group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u3	I ask the Regulatory Committee, along with the faction, to study the proposal if there is a need for a decision by the Supreme Council and what decision is needed. Then let's figure it out. Yes. Please, Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u5	Roman Zvaric. The faction of the "Our Ukraine" Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u6	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, we are hearing that today the parliamentary majority is about to include in the agenda a daily draft of the Ordinance on some legislative measures to ensure constitutional reform in Ukraine. We draw your attention, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the deputies of the faction "Our Ukraine" have registered a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the above-mentioned draft decree. We will therefore require you, however, to have this draft decision of nonadmissibility considered in accordance with the Rules before considering and discussing this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u7	Okay, I think we're going to follow the rules. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u8	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Please give the word to my colleague from the Communist faction Lechchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u9	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u10	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! On the sixth page of today’s work arrangement, there is a whole series of bills related to the moratorium on land and land trade in general. Bill 3006, it covers the problem more widely than anyone else has ever registered. And the other four bills, they only apply to the moratorium. I'm proposing Bill 3006 to consider it first and to discuss it and make a decision, and then four others later, they're covering, I say again, one problem of the moratorium. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I think you'll support this proposal: when we come to the consideration of this issue on page six, then we'll exchange our thoughts again and we'll figure it out. Instead of Karnauha Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! On February 27, in Chernigov, seven thousand citizens of the city took care of the city’s administration and blocked the traffic in the city for one reason: the city’s mayor increased the price of water by 50 percent and the price of water by 30 percent. The question of tariff verification is the ruling prepared by the 5098 Supreme Council, I ask you to put it to a vote on Thursday to check the tariffs. Well, that's not suppose, it doesn't support 95 percent of the city's population, or the district administration, or the government, or the president. We've already set up the town administration twice. Mer doesn't want to react. In two weeks, the city’s inhabitants offer to stop traffic along the railway line. I'm going to ask you to consider this question and intervene. Where is the Antimonopoly Committee? Where's the D.A.? Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, give the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u13	Thank you. I ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to consider this question and the appropriate committee. There, we will continue to be determined according to the Rules. Dear colleagues, time is up. Dear colleagues, we don't have an exchange of thoughts right now. It's simple. What's the offer? Please, Paul Silent. Please. Considering you lost your vote at the rally, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u14	Paul Movchan, Block "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention and ask for your support: both yours and the session hall, so that we may vote on Thursday for the decision of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to mark the 190th anniversary of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk's birth. So in this order of things, there's an 85-year term for comsomol. Well, you can see for yourself that these are immeasurable dates! And please: support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u15	Thank you. We were evidently late to make the right decision. But the committee and Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk take this determination, see. Obviously, we should have responded earlier. 190 years since Shevchenk was born. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Tuesday's schedule. Now, the first section is, "Make decisions on the issues under discussion." The draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Licensing of Fumigation Activities, Depletion of Sub-Carrantine Materials and Objects is under review. Sergei Mikolaiovich Tereshuk. Is Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk here? Please, Sergey Mikolayovich. Now, let's make a proposal to the committee and we'll discuss it and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the proposals carefully. The proposals were all taken into account and the committee's request to support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u17	On the Basis or On the Whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u18	In general. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on licensing activities for fumigation of defamation of subcarrantine materials and objects. Please vote. Registration number 4340. [[10:09:47]] For 245 As a basis, it's been accepted. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a committee to adopt this law in general. Is there no objection? Alexander Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u20	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, I propose that this law should be further developed. Do you think about what we voted about? A vote was made to introduce licenses for a species that needs absolutely no licenses, but simply competition should develop. Tomorrow we're going to have the mouse we're going to be doing licenses, and we're now voting, so today we're going to redistribute the market, change guidance to the APC, and everyone's doing something. So I'm proposing that this law be drafted in such a way that it doesn't interfere with the development of free competition in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, since there are objections and national MPs want to make proposals, then we only accept this law as a basis. I'd like the committee to continue working on it. Thank you. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Labour Law is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4055. Please make a proposal to the committee. Mr. Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee generally supports the Government's proposal to amend the Code and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading on the basis of
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for Violations of Labour Law. [[Registration number 40555]] Please vote. [[10:11:59]] For 281 Decision taken. A draft law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on judicial militia units is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4053]] Reports Marcus Maria Andriyevna, a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement is being considered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the overall number and structure of the Ministry of Interior. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill and accept it as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u25	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the totality and structure of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on judicial militia units. [[Registration number 4053]] Please vote. [[10:13:22]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The committee's proposal to enact this law as a whole. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill will not promote order in a court of law. Well, look, listen to the opinion of the head of the court. Because we made it for something. Listen to the judges' opinion, this is not the bill that will improve the security situation today in the courts. It's going to be the same vachanalia that it is now. Therefore, it cannot be accepted as a whole. We need to anticipate subordination, we need to anticipate mutual responsibility between those units that are formed with the militia on the one hand, the judicial administration on the other, the court on the other. And that's why I have some changes to this law that I'm going to make. I ask not to be deprived of the constitutional right to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u27	I ask the committee to continue working on the drafting of this law so that we can adopt it as a whole. A draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the right of a national operator to send mail]] Registration 4218. Long Stanislav Alexiyovich, please the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. Is there a Long Stanislaw Alexiyovich? Is there a committee representative? Valerius Pavlovich? Well, please, then, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u28	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Housing and Communications has considered the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 03.10.03. The bill provides for a reduction in the weight of simple letters from 350 grams to 50 grams for which the exclusive right belongs to a national operator. The need for Ukraine to meet the requirements required to join the World Trade Organization. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council came to a positive conclusion. The introduction of the law will not result in additional costs from the State Budget. The committee recommends the adoption of a bill on postal communications on making changes as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act, registration number 4218. [[on the right of a national operator to send mail]] Please vote. [[10:17:14]] For 306 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the output for written correspondence]] Stanislaw Alexiovich Longi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u30	Our committee also considered the bill. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Post Office Act with an additional condition. Under the postal service agreement, the subject of which is the dispatch of printed correspondence to postal operators, the obligation to specify in the specified output contract of the printed correspondence, namely, the printing and the name of the printer where they were printed, the number of the order, and so on. Such a legislative novelty will help prevent abuse in the above - mentioned sphere. In general, the committee supports the bill as one that aims to prevent abuse of the postal operator, non-proliferation of unreliable information, and considers it appropriate to accept it as a basis for the first reading. However, when preparing the bill for second reading, it should be further developed with a view to clarifying the formulation of individual standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act, registration number 3167. [[on the output for written correspondence]] [[10:19:07]] For 229 Decision taken. The draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts for Distribution of Produce on Extracted Useful Fossils is being announced for consideration. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Registration number 4344.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered the bill and has submitted it to the Supreme Council for its consideration. There was discussion on the bill. I would like to remind you that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its opinion, has made quite a few comments to the bill and invited it to return to the authors for further transmission for re-reading. The Ministry of Economic Integration of Ukraine, having examined the bill and also made a number of comments to it, considered that it could be adopted by Parliament on first reading for further elaboration. The Committee on Economic Policy decided to propose the proposed bill on first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u33	Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u34	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. The Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, the Act of Controversy, which was also considered by the Constitutional Court for the faction of the Socialist Party, where I represented before the Constitutional Court, I would like to see the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has already made a statement on this matter, before voting on this document, that the members of the Supreme Council should be informed of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Today, we cannot deprive the Supreme Council of the right to control the decommissioning of the earth. This is the standard that is proposed. That is why I ask, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, not to support this document and allow the deputies to get acquainted with the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court had already stated in this regard that it was a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u35	Honorable National MPs. Change it. Can I have a glass, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u36	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I don't think this law can be adopted. For example, even in the part that changes to the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. This law provides for full exemption, which means that these objects, organizations from land payments, cannot be allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Contracts, Distribution of Product for Extracted Useful Fossils, registration number 4344. Please vote. [[10:22:22]] For 227 Decision taken. The draft Act on the peculiarities of privatization of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the statutory fund of the closed Association of the Transnational Finance and Industry of Ukritnaft Oil Company, is being announced for consideration. Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please. Committee position. Two! Two! There's the registration number 3594, 3594-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the Committee has considered both bills and recommends that Bill 3594 should be adopted as a basis, 3594-1 should be rejected, and if Bill 3594 was adopted, the proposal of Bill 3594-1 should be taken into account in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u39	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. I put to the vote the first bill, registration number 3594, to be adopted on the basis of the draft Act on the Specificities of Privatization of the Shares Package, which belongs to the State in the statutory fund of a closed shareholding company, the transnational financial and industrial oil company Skrtatnafta. [[10:23:53]] For-69 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Yes, go, go, go, go, go. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 3594-1 on the features of privatization of the stock package, which belongs to the State in the statutory fund of a closed stock company, the transnational financial industry of the oil company Uccratnafta. [[10:24:46]] For two. Honorable National MPs, Bills. May I have your attention, please? Bills, registration number 3594, 3594-1 rejected. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u40	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Today we voted, you voted -- the majority, together with "Our Ukraine," the Production Distribution Act -- 227 votes. So think about it, it's giving all our resources through bribes to officials owned by foreign companies. And you, 18 people from our Ukraine, voted for it. To give the Russians, the Americans, and so on. So if you act like that, you don't have to talk about patriotism, national interests. It's a national betrayal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u41	Thank you. Semenyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u42	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address you. If documents are presented that have not been concluded by the Cabinet of Ministers and have not responded to the Special Supervisory Board's decision, we still have to give our word. And without that decision, without agreeing to pass it on to the session room. This is the second or third time that I have said: How could it be given today, to ask a question that actually affects the interests of the State, the interests of Ukraine? So I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if there is a majority, there is a responsibility - let him be responsible for the laws they make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u43	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u44	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want out of procedure. Give it to me. The question is done, we have already asked another question. We can't go back to the old man, give him comments. We don't vote for any laws either, we don't like them, but they do. We're not commenting, we're not stalling. That's why there's a request. The decision has already been made, the question has passed -- let's keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u45	Thank you. The draft Act on Supplementing Article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Assignment of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to Other States is being announced for consideration. [[on the withdrawal from other States]] Registration number 3416. The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u46	The Committee requests support for this bill, which provides for the unification of the order of recall of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, sent to other States, to be brought into line with the same provision of the article of the Act on Ukraine's Participation in International Peacekeeping Operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft Act on Supplement to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Assignment of Ukrainian Armed Forces to Other States, registration number 3416. [[on the withdrawal from other States]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:28:21]] For-198 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? The factions, please. It's a bill. Please, George Korniyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u48	For re-reading, it's easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u49	I am voting on the proposal to refer this draft law to article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states for re-reading. [[on the withdrawal from other States]] Registration number 3416. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:29:11]] For the 250. Decision taken. The Draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 5 June 2003 on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, is being announced for consideration. Widely Yuri Volodymyrovich, please head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u50	Yuri Shirko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party, town of Raven. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! According to a mandate of February 5, 2004, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy for the Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons reviewed the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. Registration number 3078. I would like to inform you that participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, including the special composition of civil defence formations involved in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, receive benefits and compensation under the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The status of the invalidity of war is determined by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantee of Their Social Protection, and it is not possible for the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster to address the issue of the status of a war invalid. The Act on Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities falls under the competence of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, under the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of September 8, 2003, issue 867 "On subjects of knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". Therefore, the committees propose to amend the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 5 June 2003 on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Paragraphs one, two and three of the Supreme Council Regulations of 5 June 2003 on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, their Social Protection, replace one and two of these with paragraphs. First. Adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[Registration number 3078]] And the second point. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the matter of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons with the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities of War, taking into account the observations and proposals of entities of the right to legislative initiative, and to bring it to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. Without such changes, it is virtually impossible to continue working on the above - mentioned bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 5 June 2003 on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. Registration number 3078-P. Please vote. [[10:33:24]] For 369 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the Inadequacy of Certain Provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision No. 1783 of 20 November 2003 on Measures to Improve the Pension Insurance of Citizens is being promulgated, Registration No. 4606. Aloshin Valery Borisovich, first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Order of the Supreme Council of February 17, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons submitted a second draft of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Ordinance on the Inadequacy of Certain Provisions of the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of November 20, 2003, under No. 1783, "On Measures to Improve the Retirement of Citizens" of the current legislation, and recommends the adoption of an appropriate draft regulation on the basis and in general. When the project was finalized, the individual positions of all the projects were taken into account, which were considered by previous committee representatives, representatives from various parliamentary groups, and factions. The draft regulation proposes the Cabinet of Ministers to bring the average monthly wage rate into line with the official published figures. It is also proposed that the Supreme Council be informed of the implementation of this decree and that it be regulated in the legislative order to determine the average wage used in this law. Today we also have to consider the relevant draft laws on this issue. There is a proposal to support the resolution of a conflict situation that has been disrupted in society by an appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! I am voting for the entire draft Order on the Inadequacy of Certain Provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decision No. 1783 of 20 November 2003 on Measures to Improve the Pension Insurance of Citizens to Act. Registration number 4606. [[10:36:11]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions? Okay. Please, by the factions. Now, one minute, I'll read it. "Our Ukraine" - 92; "Regions of Ukraine" - 6; faction of communists - 58; industrialists and entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine" faction - 0; the "Social Democratic Party of Ukraine" - 4; "The People's Government" - 2; the "Socialist Party of Ukraine" - 19; the "Democratic Initiatives" -0; the "People's Choice" -0; the "National Choice" -0; the "NDP -0; the non-fractional -0; the "Democratic Initiatives" -0; the "Democratic Initiatives" -0; the "National Choice" -0; the "National Choice" -0; the "NDP -0; the non-fractional -10. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to a simplified procedure. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the size of certain types of compulsory public social insurance is being introduced, registration number 4434. Reporter is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Hotch Olena Vasilovna. Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You are considering a bill that provides for further increases in insurance payments for insured persons. This is about raising the child’s birth rate. As you know, at the end of last year, the Supreme Council passed a law that provides for increased support for the birth of a single child twice. The Social Insurance Fund, in connection with the temporary loss of employment, has proposed to the government to ensure that the law is implemented and to make appropriate changes to the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment. In the event that this law is passed, honourable national deputies, the size of the child’s birth will be increased more than twice and will reach nearly 684 bracelets. It is also suggested that monthly assistance be extended to working women to care for their children. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the amount of help available to unemployed people. No less than 23 percent of the minimum of living. The individual size of insurance payments, the honourable national MPs, thanks to your laws, we have already achieved a minimum of living. Thus, some of them are suggested to set up a slightly higher one. And it's suggested that we make changes to the law so that these payments don't be lower than the cost of living, which is to open up opportunities for us to be able to continue to raise wages for the workers, taking into account the income portion of the funds. Thus, honourable national MPs, the government passed a bill that takes into account the laws adopted by the Supreme Council last year. Science and expertise and our Committee on Social Policy and Work supports this bill. We ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u55	And thank you, Olena Vasilovna. Have a seat, please. Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigora, please. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u56	Leonid Vernigora, Ukrainian Socialist faction. Helen Vasilovna has now reported on a bill that is being tabled by the government. And as you've all noticed, this step-by-step approach, which unfortunately today is in the concept of our improving living standards, is also working in this law. Little by little, but the social security of our citizens is increasing somewhat. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Work considered the bill and concluded that it should be supported and accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter with us? Please sign in 2 for, 2 for, 2 for, 2 for. Aah! They've already signed up. Now let's see, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, then Jaroslav Suhi will perform. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is a faction of our Ukraine. I'd like to ask you, your honor, to speak for whether or not you are against this bill so that we can be guided.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u58	Yury Karmazin, Party of Patrons of the Solidarity Party of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, today, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, we have easily rejected the ruling that the national deputy Aloshin has reported here today, which deals with the absolute improvement of the pension security of all Ukrainian citizens, is Bill 4606. We rejected him with such ease. And they didn't even want to vote that I just had deep doubts that the MPs were getting on the job right now. And that's why I would like to urge you, first of all, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to return to that ruling because the government of every Ukrainian citizen has stolen, I emphasize the word "stolen," and I ask for the words, I ask that I be tried, stolen 30 dollars from every pensioner. So we have to go back to question 4606, but under this law. This law also has a bearing on the social well - being of the people. And I think we should take it, which is me in favour, write down, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that I'm in favour, but. But this law needs to be improved. To improve in order to provide greater social security for people. The law itself was passed on November 27, at least registered so, and it is written that it takes effect on January 1, 2004. Obviously, he won't be able to dial since January 1st, because we don't have any back-up laws. That's why I'm proposing right now, where in End Positions, it becomes effective from the moment of publication, as we do in the Constitution. These are purely legal points that must be stated here. And what's proposed to increase the spread of social insurance payments in case of unemployment, 21 percent of the working person's living minimum to 23 percent, I think that's very small. And the size of care for a child up to three years from 15 percent to 23 percent, I also think that's very small, and I think in the second reading that we have, based on this, by finding a basis for a rise, to raise it to at least 33 percent, at least to 33 percent, but once again, these are the numbers that I'm taking from the ceiling, unfortunately, because we don't have an economic justification. I mean, I'm in favour of acceptance, and I'm in second reading for making these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u59	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Please. Yuri Solomatin is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! Bill number 4434, as well as some other proposals, the legislative proposal for social orientation, was submitted by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council on the initiative of the Social Policy and Labour Committee. And I think that's one of the indicators of the government's and the Supreme Council's consolidated efficiency in terms of social orientation. In keeping with the agreement on the gradual, out of economic capacity, but steadily increasing all the parameters of the quality of life of the people, the bill foresees an increase: the first-largest social insurance payments in case of unemployment to 23 per cent of the minimum of living, the second-largest-up of child care assistance to three years increases by almost 10 per cent, to 23; and the third-to-two subsistence minima will now be one-time assistance for the birth of a child. And I'm going to vote, and I urge you to vote for this bill. But here I want to draw everyone's attention to: what we can explain to people today is that if this bill goes into effect, it's going to be based on the old, frozen us here in the session room, the size of the living minimum. He didn't get a new living minimum, a new size of the right number of votes. And we're going to calculate all of these increases on an old base. I understand that for someone between 16 and 30 dollars it may not be a lot of money, but we just have to look at the frozen subsistence minimum, not just to increase it, but how the MPs do everything they can to make this process irreversible on the way to the task: minimum wage, minimum pension, social benefits should be equal to the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the following. First, the bill is drafted without increasing the amount of insurance premiums, and it does not impose any additional burden on the manufacturer. Second, this bill does not require additional costs from the State Budget. That's why I'm proposing. It's short, it's clear, it's transparent. And I propose, like my colleague Karmazin, to support him in the first reading and during the general vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Two to go. We need two more against it, if there are. Please, Yuri Carmazin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u62	The Communist faction, Yuri Solomatine. Now we've heard what a wonderful government we have and how it cares about the disadvantaged part of our population. But just a few minutes ago in this session room, when Bill 4606 was being considered, which envisioned the return of the illegally established Government number 1783 since November of last year to the average wage in 2002 of 376 dollars instead of 306, which is now being used in calculating pensions right here and the government, right here and the presidential majority, our favorite voters didn't vote in favour of such a bill. And now it's given to a certain part of the disadvantaged person, so let's say, the gift, but thank you for that, because when a young family receives two-fold assistance at birth, and thanks for that. [[About 700 bucks.]] And if unemployed people get at least 20 percent of the living minimum and thank you for that. But this is a fundamental and principle that does not address the social protection of the population, because at this time and now we have an old, well-known rule: first of all, to provide for the interests and interests of those whom, at the beginning of his tenure as President Kuchma Leonid Danilovich, called "fat cats." Now both the government and most, and this bourgeois opposition, which is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are primarily concerned about these very "fat cats," and this has shown the vote of both the Bolsheviks, and the bourgeois opposition, and the smallest in the bill today, in the same way as the distribution agreements, when they were able to satisfy the interests of these "fat cats" by a small majority. So when I finish my speech, I want to address our voters first. Consider the fact that those who have already taken hold will never take care of you, and if they give you taxes or 20 bracelets during elections, or now as in this bill and thank you for that, we will take care of it, but we will also remember it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u63	Yes, Volodymyr Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u64	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The city of Kirov. I understand that this bill has been drafted with the aim of allegedly increasing the minimum payouts foreseen by the listed types of compulsory government insurance, which is to increase the amount of unemployment assistance and care for the child until the age of three, a one-time assistance for the birth of the child. But after working on the draft law, it was concluded that the same changes had been made in the design of the so - called pension reform. Under today's socio-economic conditions, this law will not enhance the social protection of a woman who is on maternity leave or a person who is unemployed. If there's 80 pennies available for the care of a child right now, he'll get an allowance of up to 5 or 6 pennies after the adoption of this law. This is the case when this woman was working in the budget area. What, though, does a woman who works as a market promoter receive in addition to giving birth to a single child? Nothing. As far as she has not received monthly assistance, she will not receive it after the adoption of this law. The bill states that it is proposed to set up a social insurance fund reserve for 2004 on the temporary cost of unemployment. That's good, but as always, the question is, are these funds going to be channelled from the fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Question completed. From Noshchenko’s motives. Please, the microphone. Very briefly, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u66	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm on the list of speakers. In general, by supporting the bill, I want to make a warning that there is an amendment to the amount of social assistance in unemployment. And the situation may be that unemployed social assistance may be higher than social assistance to vulnerable populations, including people with disabilities. There is a request to adopt this law in the first reading and to work on it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u67	Viacheslav Kirilenko, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u68	Viacheslav Kirilekno, faction of "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, these payments that the government is proposing to change today are based on the size of the subsistence minimum. The government has twice introduced a minimum of living to Parliament, and we have rejected twice. Not because Parliament is bad, but because the Yanukovich government has made an unacceptable minimum of living in advance. So I propose to write in our decision, or to give such an order, or to recommend to the government, between the first and second readings of this bill, a new size of living minimum so that we can clearly determine the amount of these payments that the government is proposing to increase today. Well, about our faction. We vote, "Our Ukraine," for the first reading, but the second one will propose an increase in the percentage of living minimum on these payments. The government is proposing to increase from 21 to 23 percent, it's actually going to be about 88 dollars. We're going to offer 100, 110, 115, and we're going to get 30 percent in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote, please note, the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the size of certain types of compulsory public social insurance. Registration number 4434. Please vote. [[10:54:08]] For 394 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment is being announced for consideration. Reporter, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Hérácz Olen Aleksyivna, and co-reporter, Vernigor Leonid Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The insurance system created by Parliament and the government in Ukraine allows it to move from providing material aid to active employment policies. In this bill, the government proposes to increase the amount of subsidies to employers at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment, to create additional employment for unemployed persons at the expense of the payment of the first five days of temporary unemployment, at the expense of the employer’s costs and the amount of contributions to the general government social insurance. Thus, honourable national deputies, the fund takes full funding to create additional jobs for the unemployed. At the same time, honourable national deputies are invited to establish the only way to postpone unemployment assistance, as it is for employees. which are released in connection with a reduction in the number or state, or liquidation, the reorganization of the enterprise, as well as for those workers who have received relief. Thus, the period of unemployment assistance for them will be extended to a period of time during which they will receive this relief. Ladies and gentlemen, today we can democratically make proposals to Parliament that are being considered by the three sides of the social partnership. Today, trade unions, employers who form social insurance funds, work in small social parliaments, funds management. The bill therefore proposes to slightly improve the representation of social partners in the funds, granting such a right only to those who have the status of non - Ukrainians and to introduce, as in Parliament, responsible members of the government for participating in government meetings and for making decisions concerning unemployed persons. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been drafted to carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council. And in connection with the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors to clarify certain points with a view to enforcing legislation. This bill is supported by the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority and our Social Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u71	And thank you, Olena Vasilovna. Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u72	Leonid Vernigora, Ukrainian Socialist faction. As you've noticed, your honorary colleagues, that the law that Helen Vasilovna is now reporting, it should actually be preceded by the law that we've considered before. Because these are the causal laws that bind each other. But it has happened that life is not in place, and we need to make changes to the basic Law on Social Insurance in case of unemployment. You probably already know that the changes in the bill relate mainly to the terminology of the law, as well as the representatives of the social partnership in the management of the fund and the supervisory board of state oversight, the calculation of the insurance and insurance payments, unemployment, and so on. It is proposed that the termination of the employment contract in accordance with article 36, paragraph 6, be made subject to the loss of work by independent individuals. This is the refusal of an employee to work in another area by an enterprise, an institution, an organization, and a refusal to work in connection with a change in working conditions. These are the rights of our employees and the Labour Code. The rules on the determination of the insured’s life expectancy, the extent of unemployment assistance, the reasons for the reduction and termination of payments, and the direct use of the fund’s funds are being adjusted. That's what I said in the previous law. For all categories of insured persons who have lost their jobs from circumstances beyond their control, it is envisaged that a single system of unemployment assistance should be established in the event of their receiving a leave of absence in accordance with legislation or other payments, which partially or temporarily compensate for the loss of their salary. Under effective legislation, unemployment assistance is postponed only to workers who have been released, creating unequal unemployment benefits for others who have also lost their jobs under their own circumstances and who have been helped out. And, as has already been said, the proposed increase in the employer’s contribution to the creation of additional jobs can be attributed to the inclusion in the amount of grants paid for the first 5 days of temporary incapacity, at the expense of the employer’s costs and contributions to the general public, state, social insurance paid by employers according to the legislation. The Committee on Social Policy and Work, our subcommittee has carefully studied all the comparisons or all the positives and negatives that could be, and has decided to propose this bill for adoption as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u73	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Please, short procedure: 2 in, 2 in. The word has the national MP Puzakov, to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u74	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment" are recognized by the need to adjust individual rules. Most of them can be agreed upon, more than that, to be considered necessary. Some of them, however, seem to me to be unacceptable. First of all, this refers to the change in part 4, in article 6. These changes are proposed to expand the circle of insured persons who are entitled to material security in case of unemployment. And that deserves support. But, to put it mildly, it is surprising that members of the private agricultural sector will be entitled to unemployment insurance even if the monthly monthly income per member of the farm is equal to or greater than the minimum wage. And now the people who do the work in accordance with civil law agreements don't limit themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't yet know if our peasants will be able to take the risk of registering a private farm. I didn't notice that enthusiasm in our area. I believe that members of a private farm should be entitled to material security in the event of unemployment on only one condition: payment of insurance premiums. I cannot agree with the proposed change in part 3 of article 15, where it is the decision of the authorities of state oversight to emphasize that members of the government, even though the law refers to the Supervisory Board, may be deprived of their responsibilities if they fail to perform their duties. I consider the proposed standard to be in conflict with article 2 of the law, which is amended by part of the parity in the administration of insurance. And if we agree to change this norm, only the party that delegated it can deprive a member of its authority. I also talk about this because failure to fulfill our obligations often involves a person who is acting on their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Karmazin, prepare Mihovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u76	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Making changes to the law on compulsory state social insurance in case of unemployment is now a matter of time. It is also caused by abuses that take place. And I don't know if the fund analyzed those abuses, but today, at meetings with voters, especially in the Kyiv region, they were putting the headquarters of the Party of Natives in Squire, asking me questions about the abuse and non-abuse of these payments. And so I watched the draft of this law, making changes to this law just because of the prism of not allowing abuse to happen. And I have a warning to both article 17 and article 16 of the bill, draft law, I also have a warning to article 29. Well, especially when we're talking about funeral care -- it's a person who was unemployed -- it's added, it's already been in the size of a living minimum, we're now clarifying: for a working person. But then: order of assistance and so on -- everything is the central authority of the executive branch in the field of work and social policy in agreement with the foundation's rule. Well, let's write out some of the only standards right now. How much longer can we agree after adopting laws that are very simple things that are already laid down in other laws? Let's take this formula, and then we're not going to abuse these people. That's the first one. The other one. To article 30. "The fund can be given to the employer every month for a year a grant to create additional jobs for employment."--and beyond the text. Or maybe you don't. Especially in our politicized society, when you're backing up the wrong line, you won't be able to do that. So let's just work out the only criteria here: when this help is provided. And the next. I want these moments to just get away from the project, the points that were deleted in article 35 were: "Right, duties and responsibility of the employer. The current and other accounts of the taxpayers of the insurance premiums are opened by the banking institutions on the condition that documents are presented to confirm their registration in the working bodies of the Fund’s executive directorate. ” Well, what are we doing? We force those who produce material values to walk again and ask for permission. Let's delete these things, this doesn't match the modern approaches that are in other laws. In general, we can accept it in the first reading. I'm telling you, I'm going to make my remarks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u77	The word is given by the national deputy Mihović. Get ready for Dryma. Migovich! Please, Dry, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, recently several legislative initiatives have been directed to the Committee on Social Policy and Work to improve the basic law reported by the Deputy Minister for Social Policy and the work on compulsory state unemployment insurance. So when we analyzed these bills, and on the committee we did a hearing about the practice and the application and application of the basic law, we came to the conclusion that there was a need for changes to the basic law regarding the terminology of social partnership representatives, the state oversight of the insurance and unemployment fund. I want to say that the adoption of this project will really help to strengthen the social protection of temporarily unemployed citizens. I pay particular attention to article 17 of this bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Majorities from the Industrial Regions of our Ukraine, i.e. I am drawing your attention to the proposal to increase the amount of subsidies for employers to create additional jobs. This problem -- you know -- has long needed a solution, but in preparing for the second reading, so I asked for a word from the rostrum. It will be necessary to work on the basis of such a grant and, knowing our practice on the ground, to clearly define a system of monitoring the use of grants. Dear colleagues, it is not about investing in new jobs, it is about employment, job security, and cost recovery. And for one more thing, I ask you to pay attention. Bill No. 4350 does not exhaust the ability of the government to further improve employment issues, to change public policies in the area of human resources training in manufacturing and education. I emphasize, in a system of higher education that has more and more recently been producing unemployment among graduates, usually economists, lawyers, journalists and other specialties that have been extremely prestigious and are now scarce. Therefore, he believes that it is necessary to make warnings and to propose the adoption of Bill 4350 as a basis for continuing such work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u79	Thank you. Ivanovich, right? Please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! A very important law is being considered. And now we've met, worked in the districts, and, of course, people at the meeting are not particularly concerned about the development of political reform, and all the problems that have arisen in the implementation of pension reform have come out today. And here in this law, I have such comments -- these are comments such that today the law extends the norm, when the last two years before the pension can be paid compensation to people who are unemployed, who have lost their jobs. And for today, there is a law that says that if you have two years left "not by age but by retirement", for example, category 2 and 1 concessions may lose their benefits in the adoption of this law. Therefore, we need to be careful, but in the first reading we need to support, it is still the social improvement of the lives of our citizens today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion was concluded. We will determine the fate of this bill. A professional committee recommends that it be accepted as a basis for the first reading. I'll put this motion to the vote. Vote. [[11:11:13]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 8, “Regions of Ukraine” - 38, Communists - 53, “Trust Ukraine” - 36, “Social Democratic Party” - 15, “The People’s Government” - 3, “Socialists” - 19, “Timoshenko – 6, “Dem. Initiatives” - 5, “Agrarian Party - 15, “National Choice” - 10, “NDP - 10, “Noffects” - 2. Dear colleagues, I'm voting, I'm voting on the basis of the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment. [[Be careful!]] For reasons, please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Adam Ivanovich, do not break the Rules! The law was rejected, and the majority did not vote for it. Secondly, the MPs did the right thing. You want to use the funds that are earmarked for unemployment insurance in order to distribute to individual entrepreneurial structures. And that's what we need to talk about, because it's actually supposed to be an annual salary grant. And you know very well who will use these grants. The cost of all taxpayers will go to create jobs for selected entrepreneurial structures. So don't break the Rules, take down the law, it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u83	Thank you. I'm not breaking the Rules. I'll put it to a vote. Who's in charge of voting on this bill? Please make up your mind. [[11:13:33]] For 297 Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed, this is the right of the Chief, and this is decided by the Supreme Council. 297 votes for the vote. So by doing the Supreme Council's will, I'm voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On the Universally Compulsory State Social Insurance in the event of unemployment. Registration number 4350. Vote. [[11:14:16]] For-300 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider a whole set of bills devoted to the issue of compulsory government pension insurance for the average wage. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance", registration number 4538. The author of the bill, National Deputy Zebrovsky Pavel Ivanovich, reports. Please, Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u84	Pavlov Žebrevski, "Our Ukraine" faction, Solidarity Party. Dear colleagues, the draft law that was passed for your discussion was submitted to me on December 18, 2003. He is called upon to protect the rights of pensioners who are being recalculated in accordance with article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance. These rights have been violated by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Order of 20 November 2003, No. 1783 on measures to improve citizens' pensions. Last week, dear colleagues, we spent time in our constituencies. And agree, most references are the cry of the souls of pensioners who have taken reform as another lie of power. Because the 4-6 bracelets that have been given a pension, of course, can't be considered to be an improvement in his condition. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in spite of existing legislative acts without any logical argument, has taken a decision which has led to a substantial reduction in pensions or a slight increase in pensions when counted according to the new pension law. Clearly, reforming a compulsory state pension insurance is a long - term process. It will be a matter of need to carry out the salary index used in the calculation of the pension, the elimination of the imbalances that have arisen in the pension insurance of military personnel, and so forth. But based on what could be done right now, I suggest we address the question of the average wage figure to be applied in the calculation of pensions in accordance with article 43 of the already named law. To this end, honourable colleagues, it is necessary to amend the article of the first Ukrainian Act "On general government pension insurance" by introducing the term "average salary" to determine that when determining the size of the average wage, its size is taken into account to tax the income tax on citizens. The proposed law does not provide for new expenditure from the State Budget, since it only specifies the law that is valid. In addition to the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1783, the average monthly salary figures for 1998-2002 are used for the appointment and recalculation of pensions. According to appendix number two, the average wage for 2002 is 375 dollars 98 copies, which is offered for calculation. Dear colleagues, the adoption and implementation of the law will allow justice to be restored in relation to pensioners, to protect their rights violated by the Cabinet of Ministers, to carry out a fair recalculation of labour pensions and to increase their average amount by 20-40 dollars right now. It is noteworthy that the funds paid to retirees will return to the national economy, as they will be spent on the most necessary, food products, which the pensioners are particularly keen on. The committee adopted Bill 4538-2 as the basis for the profile committee. I do not object to the adoption of this Aloshin-Jushchenka bill as a basis. And my bill is to be taken into account when working on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u85	The draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance for Average Wages, registration number 4538-1, is being complied with. National MP Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! When pensions were recalculated, the government violated the law. The law provides for the calculation of pensions, the average wage according to the Ministry of Statistics. This data, the figure you know is 376 dollars. The government has discounted this figure by 60 dollars, which has led to the legitimate indignation of citizens. The discussion that this figure should be different is groundless and illegal, because the Ministry of Statistics does not charge the wages from which insurance payments are made. And the only number that the Ministry of Statistics can determine is the nominal wage. In fact, there is no problem even with the law, for the government has simply violated the law. But in order not to have ambiguous interpretations and to prevent the rights of pensioners being violated in the calculation of pensions, the proposed draft amendments, I am the author of this bill. There are several bills on the list of these bills that are under consideration today. They're essentially identical. And in order not to allow the dispersal of votes and to make a decision, and we need to make a decision, I propose not to put my project to the vote, but to support the next project, which is sponsored by Aloshin and Victor Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u87	Yes, I invite you to Valery Aloshin's report. Please, Valery Borisovich. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! On July 9, last year, the Supreme Council upheld the National Pension Insurance Act, and 357 votes were cast for that law. Such unanimity has demonstrated a high level of understanding among parliamentarians of the necessity and urgency of pension reform. However, the government’s initial actions after the census have led not only to massive dissatisfaction of pensioners but also to distortions of the basic pension law. It turns out that the generalized term "average wage" has different meanings between government officials and parliamentarians. Moreover, even the government, in the same decree, defines the average wage for 2002 as 306 dollars, while the 12 average monthly wages for the same year increased from 320 to 442 dollars in December 2002. It's kind of pluralism in one head. That's why there's an urgent problem in finally defining the content of the term "average wages of national economic workers" and the methodology for calculating the number of parameters of this indicator. This is what the bill proposed for you is aimed at. I'd like to draw the attention of the national deputies to the next. First, the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers in 1783, which provoked the situation around the recalculation of pensions, was adopted against the requirements of the law. Secondly, a decision has been taken by a coalition government, which is based on a parliamentary majority and which has the ability to quickly adjust the rules of law for supporting Parliament. However, the government goes to direct violations of the law but does not initiate changes. So we have an example of what the interaction of government and parliament should not be. Thirdly, all the financial justifications for the accepted model of the pension system were based on the use of average economic wage statistics. So any changes in the individual parameters, including the average wage, were to be accompanied by corresponding changes in other parameters. For example, if the logic is taken into account that the average wage is only the one from which the pension benefits are paid, then it is also necessary to change the rate of the insurance period. However, such initiatives did not come. It is also obvious that pension reform, as a complex socio-economic problem, has not received adequate government support through the tools of current fiscal policy; it has not become a real one, but a declarative priority of social policy as a whole. There is therefore an urgent need for Parliament to intervene urgently in this situation and to make adjustments to the law that should become final for understanding both in Parliament and in the government. In doing so, we can restore the pension rights of our citizens, violated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention, and I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u89	Yes. Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". Dear fellow national MPs. Above all, our many - suffering Ukrainian pensioners are respected. In addition to everything my colleagues and Pinzenic and Aloshin and Zebrovsky have said, I want to add this. This long-suffering bill, the government tortured him for six years, I emphasize, six years. If in a normal other country the government dared to change the bill by its decree, and to change it to the worst, it would have had to resign immediately, it was totally not normal. Because of this, you realize that so many of the bills we've sat down, a lot of the deputies to intervene immediately, because today, in fact, most of the pensioners in Ukraine are simply indignant. Those lies to the government about everything going to be great, that the pension went up, that most of the pensioners got a supplement somewhere in general, 6 with something in it. I got a call from a folk artist. Not a lock! Not a lock! And the folk artist called and said something like that. “I used to not be completely interested in politics, and now, Yavorowski, tell me where to go with the villas and I will come there” – after she went to redecorate her pension. Look at the wickedness! We're in. Our formulation is that the average wage of employees employed in the field of economics. The average wage! The government is unforgivably shuleristic in its decision, giving a different rate of average wage. That's where the evil is, that's where the hit on our Ukrainian pensioners is. Because I am absolutely convinced that we don't need to scatter votes on these different bills right now, I put out a very clear wording in my bill, which sounds like the average wage of workers employed in the economy of Ukraine is 376 dollars. But since both this figure and these formulations are repeated in my colleagues' drafts, I think that on second reading, I can make some stylistic clarifications to Victor Yashchenk and Aloshin's project, and I think that together we can collectively correct this situation in our collective parliamentary mind. I believe that deeply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u91	Yes, Basil Nadrag as the author of the project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you of the situation in the last election. All of us, independent or absolute majority of us, regardless of party or social sympathy, spoke at meetings with voters that the main problem of pension insurance for that period was that the concept of “training” and “wage” had been totally ignored in those pensions that people had received. And so far, when you and I passed the law last July, the main thing that was written in this law is that the pension, the amount of it, is determined only by two indicators: internship and wages. By adopting a single law, we have not resolved this problem with you because it is impossible to solve the problems of the entire economy of Ukraine by one law. Therefore, when there is a problem of increasing the pension not by 4.2 per cent after 1 January, this is not only the responsibility of the Supreme Council but also of the executive branch of the Cabinet of Ministers. But today we are looking at a narrower topic, the essence of which is that all the bills that you have been offered can be divided into two parts, and the watershed can be organized. Bills that propose to amend the law that will affect the pension not only the internship and the wages with which the deductions are made, but some other moments that will bring the sum of the sum of the sum. We are moving away from the main ideology of the great law - internship and wages. Thus, only Law 4538-4, of which I am the author, proposes to preserve the main thing that is in our law: the pension must be determined by internship and wages. Everything else is a nuisance, a lack of organization, and I'm not afraid of that word, an unfair appointment of pensions. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize once again. We can talk a lot about how much the pension should increase, what the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers should do, but we do not have the right to break with you the main thing that is in the law, which is the basis for the pension. Therefore, I propose and ask you to uphold Law 4538-4 because it retains the essentials of the law. And let's go look for the money with Kabmin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! Volodymyr the Rabbit asks his project not to be considered now. Therefore, I invite the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons of Cibenko Petar Stepanovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to focus on making a responsible decision from a series of bills that are proposed. So it turns out that today, in fact, we had two documents dealing with the same problem. The Supreme Council Decision No. 4606, recommended, I stress, recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine abolish decree 1783, which led to a pension reform of the deadlock and which was successfully failed by the majority, by the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I very much hope that the only candidate from the majority who will appear in the presidential election is 9-10 million. The most underprivileged electors will repay their vote for today’s vote and will repay the Cabinet of Ministers. That's the first term. And there's a second term. And the second ingredient in today's laws that are being considered. In fact, they can be discussed in detail, but they can be spoken briefly. Five of these bills are based on two ideologies: one ideology, followed by the Bill of Deputies of Aloshin and the various projects of Žebrovsky, Pinzenik, and Yavorowski. It provides for the definition of the average wage through the law, through the law on compulsory government pension insurance. With regard to Bill No. 4538-4, author of which is Deputy Nadrag, he proposes that this be paid to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for ransom. As the Cabinet of Ministers knows how to do this, you and I are already convinced. Therefore, honourable colleagues, taking into account this, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons decided to support Bill No. 4538-2 and to take into account the rules of other bills in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the discussion. Please outline the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled on the panel. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. We need pros and cons. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u96	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the high-ranking electorate. Please tell me, what would be the name of a government that just committed a crime against all pensioners? Thieves. Thieves, huh? That's right. Today it is called a coalition. So I'm referring to coalitions, dear friends, please, what are you doing? You didn't have enough government in your eyes to trick Ukrainian citizens, cut 370 by 60 and put 306 and record, and today every Ukrainian citizen lost 30 dollars. You've provided admission to government officials, to other categories of pensioners who are already beyond smart when they're paying 14,000 dollars, 4,000, 2,000, and so on -- that's insane. It's crazy in this state when there's 130, 100 and a few thousand. So let's not get into absurdity right now. It seems to me that in that project now being reissued by the coalition, it's absurd. Because Bill 45-384 is again tasked with defining the Cabinet of Ministers. The average wage indicator is calculated in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, so written. And then in article 43 you add: computed in order defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. You and I already know what the Cabinet of Ministers is counting at 70 dollars. We know how the Constitutional Court counts, it confuses two with one term against the President. So how much further can we introduce this double standard? I would like to extend my sincere thanks to both the national deputy of Žebrovsky and the King, and to Poshenko, the first project to be implemented and to find the courage to call him back for 4538 Aloshina-Jushchenka to remain. I would also like to thank Yavorowski, who wants to write that he has to write 376 bracelets and that's exactly what the law says. But I'd like to go back to the committee, thank you for your statement now. I'd like to ask you to provide in this bill for the return of money illegally stolen from citizens, which is already taking place before this law becomes effective, miscalculated. And that's every 30 or more dollars. So let's figure this out. And this can be predicted because the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u97	Yes, Yuri Solomatin. Please. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u98	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we have now heard Jaroslav's cries from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When the Presidential Bolsheviks and the nastiests, and even the socialists involved, voted in favour of the Law on State Pension Insurance by 357 votes. That is when our faction warned the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons that this would result in shameful consequences. And our predictions are now heard by everyone, and they've all seen when the government, by decree of 1783, adjusted the average wage for 2003, which is the basis for defining these pensions. It has already been said today that we have tried in the Supreme Council of Ukraine by Bill 4606 to repeal this shameful decree of the 1783 bourgeois government of Yanukovic. But most who are, the Bolsheviks so called, did not vote in favour of this decree. They stole their real predatory face. What is the essence of the pension reform that took place? Do not touch the average underprivileged pension or increase it by only 2.5 percent a year, but start to drag the Drain of the pension budget from one disabled pensioner to another. How does this happen? An average salary for one or more periods of time worked began to count. And the poor people started yawning and looking at each other's shoulders and saying, "Why were we working together, that's 20 bucks more, and that's 20 bucks less?" That's not the point. The key issue is that there remains an unsatisfying level of middle pension and an unsatisfying budget of the Pension Fund. So our party has repeatedly emphasized this. And our position was defined in an open letter from the party leader and the leader of our party and the leader of the faction of Peter Simonenck to the government, to Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine. Our position, the position of the faction, is that we consider it appropriate to foresee the settlement of this matter through law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u99	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The next one will be for Bespalo Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! The least that we need in this room today, when we're looking at social-direction bills, the least that the Ukrainian people expect of us is politics, labeling, because it all looks cynical and hypocritical, with any faction, it wouldn't sound like that. It is cynical and hypocritical to try to gain some questionable political capitalist in human misery. We understand very well that all the bills that have been put into this room today, all of them, without exception, do not matter what factions they came from, which national MPs they all deserve attention from. This is our lack of work, article 43 of the basic bill. That's what we wrote there, so it's possible for the government today to treat this position ambiguously about the average wage. Here's what I want to point out. Whether it's a bill marked "2" by Aloshin, Yushchenko, or a bill marked "4" -- Draga, Sharov and others, it doesn't matter who, I'm calling the session room for cooperation today. Vote them with one of these bills to be adopted, because they all aim to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers not to make more mistakes, to make changes, that is, to correct our lack of legislative work, and once again I urge everyone: let's stop doing primitive politics when we consider normal, normal bills of socio-economic orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u101	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine" faction instead of Boris Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u102	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not resort to any kind of politics or take advantage of any kind of political capital, but only to the facts. The facts tell us the following. All government documents prioritise the government's social bloc. There are basics in this social block, for example, such as a minimum wage, such as a minimum wage, such as a minimum wage, for example, such as pensions. What do we see with these social blocks? The minimum wage was reduced by the end of last year from 237 to 205. The subsistence minimum was submitted twice by the government and was rejected twice by Parliament, with practically consolidated deviations and because Parliament was poor and because the amount of subsistence minimum that Janukovič had paid was not up to any criticism. She was underlying, unrealistic, and unable to count on support. And the last example with pensions. I'm willing to discuss with those who claim that in this situation that has now arisen, pension reform is to blame as such. Not at all. A guilty audit applied by the government to pension legislation at the very start of this pension reform. And so it is already discredited without being able to begin properly. It's a blow to the country's socio-economic policies. And in a situation like this, we see six parliamentary bills and one parliamentary decree. No document submitted by the government of Yanukovich-Azarov, none, given that this pension problem has a huge social resonance. Instead, we see some proposals made by members of the majority, but they also have some of their own floor. I was honored by Deputy Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag before that. He said it all right about the ideology that became part of the new pension bill when he considered it and approved it. But he didn't say that in a bill that I understand will now be supported by the majority, all these things are proposed to be calculated "in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", article 40. [[I'm quoting his bill.]] Article 43 is the same: "the average wage is calculated in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", not directly by law, as it is in the Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance, now and that the government has violated. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" calls for, firstly, to return to the vote under Decree 4606 and repeal the government decree in 1783. This is the principle of the requirement. Well, among these bills, we call for a bill marked "2" by Alshina-Jushchenka as the most direct and one that will solve the situation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u103	Yes, dear colleagues, the time for consideration is exhausted. By procedure or by motive, please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm just asking for a very brief, distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u104	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! We socialists really voted and supported the bill. The law, we'll say, voted for it, but we didn't authorize it, and then, contrary to the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers passed a decision on the base. Reduced the pension base, which is now estimated to have robbed 8.5 million of our pensioners by 25 to 30 dollars. On this point, the Socialists appealed to the Constitutional Court for anticonstitutional action by the Cabinet of Ministers. We think this should be a dot, but we are in favour of voting for any bill aimed at increasing pensions for our pensioners. So I wouldn't really want more politicians here, socialists to support and support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u105	Yes, Master. Dear colleagues, not all at once. This goes into discussion. Then Matvienkov, Hinzburg. I'm begging you, it's very short to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u106	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of Ukraine, District 14. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring some arithmetic to today's discussion. The bill of Draga is just trying to take into account the work experience. Look, if we count 376 today, those maximum pensions are going to be even higher and we're not going to raise those pensions that get 120-130 dollars today. Here's the deal. To stay for 306, but to be able to raise pensions today with this bottom layer, as they say, so that people who worked for 20, 30, 40 years could be counted, and then this coefficient would be able to raise a pension not by 4 or 5 bracelets, but much more. That's the whole point of the bill under number 4. Today, the faction of the regions has discussed this issue, and we propose to support it in the first reading and then work very hard to take into account all the suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already announced, with the motives of Matvienkov, Hinzburg and all. Dear colleagues, I understand that this is a matter of baking for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u108	Matvienkov. 55th County.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u109	The entire Supreme Council will not be motivated to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u110	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u111	Time's up, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u112	You could ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u113	It's a pleasure and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u114	Live on 156 bracelets of pension. But I'd like to ask you a slightly different question today. Why did the number 376 appear at first, then the figure 306 bracelets that set the whole country apart and turned it upside down? That's the first question. Question two. It is not today that we must solve the problem, today that we must solve the problem and see how we can truly survive on 156 bracelets. Today both the Government and we must take steps to increase the pension of the very category of people left behind. Why don't we see today the same draft Cabinet of Ministers decree as a target, what we've been talking about, to give these people an opportunity to at least get to the minimum of living? And I think that, first of all, we have to take this step and then look at the methodology of how to calculate the average wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u115	Olga Hinzburg, please. Then Nadya. All right, good fellows, time's up. Dear colleagues! There are five minutes of motivation, even more. You can't go on about it forever. One by one, the factions came from the factions. Don't scream, please calm down. Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! We worked in the district, everyone must have realized that today our electorate is not concerned about political reform, because there was no electorate in political reform who would turn up, but really put the whole country at the bottom because of the adoption of the Pension Act. And maybe the government had to do an experiment in one area or in one city to find out all of these flaws, and not have to do it all over the country. I realize today that these laws that are proposed must be passed immediately because people today do not understand what power does to them. Oh, that's different. This pension law has now reduced the population category to a second, which includes people five years earlier in retirement, and it does not have a factor that I count. They get lower than ordinary citizens go. Then, in connection with the introduction of a minimum wage for employees such as medical workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u117	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please. Dear colleagues, get used to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, to all those who have criticized my bill 4538-4, I would like to say that we must maintain the logic of internship and wages. Here's the increase in my pension, I've been calling on all my critics for the past two years, and I haven't come to this room once with bills to eliminate the benefits of the Pension Fund. If there's no money in the Pension Fund, all our passions today are zero. And I asked, and, unfortunately, a number of laws on this subject were not supported in this room. Therefore, as long as we are on the one hand thinking about the people, and on the other hand retain payment benefits, and rightly so, allow us not to pay to the Pension Fund, that is, until then we have a situation that we have faced since the first January. And that's why I think that, first, we should make this law normal, and then talk or talk to it in parallel about income from pensions. So 4538-4 is what it takes, it's systematic and it's going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u119	Yes, National Deputy Domansky, Communist faction. Baranovsky. Artemenko. And let's get this over with, even though we'll stop at that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u120	Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished MPs! I don't want to hurt anyone, but I want to tell you about the decision of the pensioners in the Zitomir region. They decided to list the allowance three, five, six bracelets to the President of Ukraine for his salary. That is why we invite all pensioners to do so if there is such a pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u121	Yes, Alexander Baranowski. Then Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u122	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, we now have pensions under twenty - five separate laws in Ukraine. And here, as colleagues have pointed out, individual officials lack thousands of dollars to pay their pension. At the same time, the least protected, we are told that there are no funds. So we, the socialists, stand on the fact that the government has to comply with the law and recalculate in terms of what the law provides for, that is, the average wage of 376 dollars. And today, as my colleagues have noted here, we will vote in favour of all the laws that aim to raise the pension by at least 5, by 10, by 20 dollars. We have to do this all the time. And that controversy that we raised in society about the fact that the law that was not implemented and the people had been deceived by pensions, it also led to today's consideration of the issue. So that's what we have to do, and let's vote on all the laws to raise the pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u123	Artemenko, let's probably stop this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u124	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Your Honor, I will not comment on the bill, because I am the co-author of one of them. But there is a small replica. You know people understand it's the Cabinet of Ministers, not the Supreme Council. But they're surprised by the other. Why is it that two months have passed, and only now are these bills being passed? Well, it's a shame about the Supreme Council, which is primarily supposed to protect the interests of the electorate. So please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you organize the work of the apparatus, figure out why bills are so important to the country for two months, and some for migratory fish, sorry, very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I put bills to the vote in order for them to come and discuss them. That's enough. It's a ribbish microphone. You're taking the vote, aren't you? Please, the microphone, the Jebrowsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We agreed that my draft law would enter into the bill of two Aloshin-Jushchenko. Because of this request by the committee of profile to support 4538-2 the law of Aloshin-Jushchenka, and ours there are Pinzenika, mine and Yavorowski to work out and take into account in preparing for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, since the bill number 4538, the author of which is the Jebravsky and the group of national deputies, is proposed to be withdrawn, so we do not put it to the vote. We're fixing that this document is off-limits. The next Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenika also suggested that he remove it from consideration, support another bill. So he's also taking it off the table. So I'm putting to the vote, honourable national MPs, the next bill under number 4538-2, the authors of Aloshin and Yushchenko to adopt as a basis the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On National Compulsory Pension Insurance". Here comes the vote, your honors. [[11:55:16]] For the 220. The factions? Please. Advertiser. "Our Ukraine" - 99, "Regions of Ukraine" - 4, Communist faction - 59, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs Party, "Trug Ukraine" - 5, "SDPU" - 1, "The People's Government" - 1, "The People's Republic" - 19, "Timoshenko Block - 18, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The Non-Factional - 14. It's coming out, it's coming out. I'll bet you a vote. Vladimir Yavorowski is now voting on the project. I'm betting on the vote on a project number 4538-3 of the Yavorowski People's Deputies for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:56:22]] For-140. The decision is not taken. I am voting on draft Act No. 4538-4 to vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[authors - National MP Nadrag, Richterov and others]] Please vote. [[11:56:59]] For 243 Decision taken. The factions, please. Out of the procedure, Peter Cibenko, please. Peter Cibenko, microphone, please turn it on. Well, now, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! By enacting the law, which is now being voted on, he won 243 votes, in effect, by legally approving the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like you to know the authors of this saviour -- the Presidential, the ruling majority. And as for most colleagues, please don't go to the committee with letters where you pour crocodile tears about pensioners' mistrust. Today you've legitimized all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u129	Yes, Victor Pinzenic. Please speak. Well, Pinzenik's microphone. Please set up the system so that we can complete our consideration of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a big mistake in this room. The law clearly stated that it is the basis for the recalculation of pensions — an average salary of 376 dollars. The government violated this rule and took an arbitrary amount, committed a violation of the law, and it was a shame that we supported a violation of the law in this room. I'm sorry, but the majority who voted for that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. After the break, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on compensation mechanisms for citizens of their income will be considered. What? Well, I announced a break, but I can't do it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u132	I'm asking the secretariat to invite the national deputies to the session room and we'll continue our work. I'd like to tell you, fellow citizens, that lately I've obviously received a lot of letters from our constituents, from Ukrainian citizens who resent that I'm announcing the presence of 300-400 national deputies registered in this room, and they say that they're much smaller and that I'm clearly falsifying the results of the actual presence of MPs. So I would like to explain that, first of all, this is the presence of cards, and second of all, I would like to invite us to be in the hall and work in accordance with our responsibilities. A draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on compensation mechanisms for citizens of their income is being announced for consideration. Reporter Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan is the National Deputy of Ukraine. Jaroslav Suhi will be speaking with a co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u133	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The bill is designed to improve the protection of citizens’ income from loss of pay. How does this compensation work now for unpaid wages? In accordance with the Act on compensation for the loss of part of their income due to violations of their payments, compensation is bound to inflation. For example, if inflation is 3 percent year-on-year, compensation for delayed wages is only 3 percent. And if there was no inflation, it turns out that there was a debt of three or five months’ wages, but no compensation is made because there was no inflation. This is a gross violation of the human rights of the worker. That I'm proposing this law or these changes to the law. Apply to compensation for delaying wages the same mechanism that is being introduced today by the Income Tax Act. This law applies the mechanism for liability for time limits for part - time or part - time repayment of the amount of overpaid taxes. This is provided for in article 20 of this law. That is why such a scheme is proposed. If the salary is delayed until the 30 calendar days following the day of the marginal payment period, compensation is 10 percent, with a delay of 30 to 90 calendar days - 50 percent and a delay of 91 calendar days - to the next from when the citizen was to receive income, i.e. the salary, 100 percent. The proposed mechanism will prevent the accumulation of debt from paying off, which is essential to solving the debt problem, and will significantly strengthen the social protection of citizens in cases of early pay. I would also like to point out the honourable colleagues who are invited to introduce this law from July 1, 2004. That is, if the debts are due by July 1st or no July 1st, this Law on Reimbursement of Detained Wages should not be applied. Moreover, if we adopt this law, it will not be distributed as a mechanism for that debt charge that will be due by July 1st, that is, it will encourage the employer to pay the wage on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u134	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u135	Respectable national MPs, a problem that is acute in social, and now politically, the problem that has not been solved for a long time remains not only the problem of debt from wages, which has been greatly reduced to 2 billion dollars in dead and low rates. But the problem is that payable wages are not paid in a timely way. I mean, what I want to point out is that the author of the bill, which has just reported his bill, came from the fact that the debt of wages began with a non-timely payment, and the mechanism that exists, I hope we will support this bill, until now it was clearly imperfect because in terms of its scope. The basic bill to compensate citizens for the loss of part of their income as a result of a violation of their pay schedule was based on an inflation index. When inflation is zero, or when inflation is gone, when deflation occurs, then the lost wages are not compensated for. This bill today, I remind you, has received the invitation of the committee, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The chief scientific and expert management is proposing to take it as a basis, the Kabmin is also supporting this bill as a letter from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Ukraine of Tobacco, so I think he has every chance of being voted on today. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that this bill will give us the opportunity to legally establish the possibility of a citizen getting a proper and adequate compensation for the delay in payment of his income. And that's the possibility. This opportunity came after the entry into force of the Personal Income Tax Act on 1 January 2004, because, in other words, whether an industrial enterprise or a business structure that pays in a timely way the financial remuneration guaranteed by the Labour Constitution is actually profiting from human money is lending itself. If such phenomena are present, they should, according to the same bill, which has created many inconveniences for industrial workers, compensate. And one more thing. And again, I'm talking to major MPs from industrially developed regions. You know how painful the problem is when a person has 5, 6, 7, 10 thousand dollars of debt earned, the situation in a family is different, the situation is extremely difficult, the person is not able to get it because it is part of the property in a tax mortgage, and it is usually sold out on scrap. So once again, the debt owed to the wages starts with a default. In order to make this compensation mechanism effective and not allow for such debt, I propose a bill under number 2119 to support it in the first reading, accepting it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u136	Thank you. Report, report completed, summary procedure. Please, the people's representative of the Hare. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u137	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! This bill is very relevant, and we need to adopt it in the first reading. Why? Because the debt after payment of wages last year increased compared to the year that passed. And I think this is about a few million dollars. I mean, these are colossal numbers. So we see that there is no employer responsibility if the debt to pay the salary goes up. In fact, a worker or a worker who works in this manufacturing business not only does not get the wages he earns on time and loses some share of this wage because there is inflation, but it acts as a creditor of this company, because the costs that are not paid are used in some way. Hence, there is an urgent need to strengthen the responsibility of employers. But I want to draw your attention to someone else. The point is that many payments: scholarships, wages, social benefits are made through individual accounts in bank institutions. And it is often so that these payments do not take place on time. How does this bill establish the responsibility of banks themselves upon payment of wages? Sadly, this bill does not answer that question. So during the drafting of this bill, I think we need to increase the responsibility not only of the employer, but also of the institutions that do the calculations because of the individual accounts in the bank. The second question. It's a question of determining the day of delay after which these sanctions are actually imposed, economic sanctions. Today, this bill says that this sanction should be introduced after the payout period for one day. Is that a realistic term? If the salary is due there on Friday, Saturday or Sunday will come. I think it's the same question that we need to find the answers to today. Maybe two days, maybe to stimulate this one day the pay-off process on time. So in my opinion, national MPs, we need to adopt this bill in order to protect workers so that they can get paid on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u138	Please, National Deputy Carmazin, prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u139	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Yesterday I was impressed by our president. I fell in love with our President yesterday because he finally realized that I've been saying for the last five years that the value added tax is harmful to the state. He is the one who is destroying our domestic production! Leonid Danilovich! But expel your government, your advisers. Your Medvedchurkis! Get everyone out and listen to us, opposition! And then maybe you'll realize that it's a very specific citizen, it's squeezing the state, and more specifically all the clans that today are called coalitions. Thus, the change in the way citizens are compensated by the state's inflation rate to the percentage of the National Bank's accounting rate is, of course, more progressive and should protect citizens' rights against the acquittal of officials and employers. And there's a good thing about that. Is there no negative? Yes. And there's a negative in this bill. In fact, I would like to make it clear that it is expected to take effect on January 1, 2004. But it is not written whether or not it will distribute its action to the debtors that have arisen before the due date, but will be fulfilled after that date. The application of the largest bank accountable in the amount of compensation is, in my view, unwarranted, because it puts legal persons, debtors, in debt. For example, debt arose on January 1, 2002, and the National Bank’s account rate changed from less than 2 January 2002. What's the motive for the compensation payments then it should be for the whole period if the higher rate was only one day in relation to the legal relationship data, if that's the 2nd number. Therefore, it would be appropriate to determine that the compensations are accounted for by taking into account all of the NBA’s accounting rates that have operated throughout the debt period. I have a lot of suggestions for this bill. I'd like to address the head of the National Bank, Sergio Tigypto. Sergey Leonidovich, you're advertising 20s, thank God you're doing this today. But I would like you to advertise the Ukrainian bracelet so that you can respond to today's changes in terms of the euro, in terms of the dollar, and in order for you to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u140	The word has the national representative of Puzakov, to prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u141	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This law or amendment of the law has long been awaited, especially for those who have not received a salary in years, and for years it has been associated with a judicial burden. Salary is the main source of income, and it has to be paid in due time, its non-payment is a long-term loan taken without the employee's consent for an indefinite period. Those who fail to pay at the proper time suffer material and moral damage and are therefore entitled to adequate compensation for the use of their income by the State or employers. At various levels, the issue of large amounts of wages is raised over several years. It's not just in our area today, it's also in Ukraine, and it's in Ukraine, and it's incapacitated by the flow of personnel and the inability of the population to pay for community services, it's disease and the increase in mortality. And so far, the problem of debt on wages is so acute that you can't close your eyes on it, even though some employers do it without shame. And in Kirovgrad, it became a habit to pay the current salary with a bad half, and the debt only in extreme cases. For example, the Lukyansk family in the village of Nova Praha, Alexandria, for four years is unable to collect their wages. And Schworin, from the Bolshoic factory in Kirovograd, can't get a payment on hospital letters for three years. The same is true of Shastak, in Novo archangelsk, with teachers and medical personnel in the area. Who compensates these people for not paying their wages? Indignant among the people, not against the backdrop of the declared economic uplift, as the president and the Prime Minister have repeatedly said, is growing the constant debt on wages, rising prices on food, on bread. At the same time, the people are down to the level of begging. Why, then, does the authorities not intend to find funds and compensate for losses to the most vulnerable population groups affected by price increases in the past year? Why should our people wander the white world in search of earnings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u143	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", head of the National Association of Writers. Dear voters, dear colleagues! I rarely use numbers from this rostrum. So if you'll excuse me, if there's a chance in my speech today, there's going to be a pick-up. But our voters remember this: At European level, only Georgians, Albanians, and Moldovans, according to the official poor criteria (that is, when income in the family is less than 175 dollars per capita, that is 27.9 percent of the population in Ukraine. 50.6 cannot buy anything other than food and clothing, 26.6 percent say that their income is not enough to eat, 22.3 percent think that they live on the brink of hunger, 50.5% of Ukrainians have no savings at all, and 23.3 percent have managed to save something, but that is enough for only one month to live. And finally, the average wage in Russia is $185, in Kazakhstan is $165, in Belarus is 115, in Ukraine is 87. Seven million citizens left Ukraine in search of earnings. There are 16 applicants for one job in Ukraine. Minimum pensions: Kazakhstan is 29 dollars, Russia is 22 dollars, Ukraine is 9 dollars. This is the answer to all the assurances of our government to our President, who admires the growth of the economy and the growth of our lives. I want to bring to your famous, distinguished fellow national MPs that debt in just one field, the most sacred, maybe the area that every nation has is education. Today, in the territories of my Yavorowski, Jovkovsky district and in your areas, today, the debt owed to teachers has reached such a level that if our teachers today bring a state to justice and the court has to make a positive decision, our entire education budget will be exhausted in May, after May, in fact, we will not have any more money for education. I think the government that has such a huge sin has stopped me in education, but it's not just education. And before intelligence, two months of writers' union don't finance a penny, and we don't get a penny of money. Because of this adoption of this law, much is needed. I doubt that he will solve all the knots immediately, but at least he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u144	Thank you. Not me. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. The Professional Committee recommends to us the adoption of a draft Act on amending certain legislative acts on compensation mechanisms for citizens of their incomes, registration number 2119. On the basis of the first reading. Please vote. [[12:50:42]] For-170. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 74, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 7, Communists - 54, "The Hard Ukraine" - 1, "The Social Democrats - 8, "The People's Government" - 0, "The Socialists" - 12, "The Block of Timoshenko - 7, "The Deminitatives - 0, "The Agrarian Party - 1, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 6. The decision is not taken. The law. Dirty, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u145	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the Veterans' Assembly is now being held at the Great Homeland War Museum, and it would be right if you would support such a proposal to send them, on our behalf, a welcome telegram with the wishes of a successful job and health and the best of all. If so, I ask Adam Ivanovich to instruct the Secretariat to give them such a telegram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u146	I'm informing you that a telegram on behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council is being sent and is already being broadcast at this assembly. Your assignment has already been completed. Bill No. 2119 was withdrawn. Here's the question: the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Alternative Service Act, registration number 3608. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Galics Georgi Kostinović
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u147	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. During the 12 years of Ukraine's Alternative Service Act, a number of issues have emerged that need a legal solution. One of the most difficult problems of organizing alternative services in recent years is the job search, especially in regions with high unemployment rates. The problem is that as a result of the dissuasion process, the number of state-owned and municipal property enterprises that should be subject to alternative services should be reduced, according to the legislation in force. With a view to broadening the scope of the work of alternatives, the bill provides for amendments to article 5 of the Ukrainian Alternative Service Act on the conduct of alternative service in enterprises whose statutory fund belongs to the State or local government. A legislative solution is also needed to control the organization and the conduct of the alternative service, to increase the responsibility of alternatives for carrying out their duties. Considering that the alternative service is being implemented instead of the conduct of the military service, in our view, we need a legislative solution to the question of increasing responsibility: both for alternatives and for employers, for passing it. To this end, the bill proposes to supplement article 8 with the impossibility of refusing the place of service defined by the commission, and article 18 with the possibility of breaking up on a bilateral basis by the owner of an employment contract with an alternative. These issues should be addressed only by commissions on alternative nonmilitary matters. It is also proposed that article 16, part 1, of the alternative service, from the day of the beginning of a young man’s work, be counted on the enterprise designated by the listing order, rather than on the basis of valid legislation. It is advisable to cancel the requirements for an alternative to informing the commission about part - time work or part - time work, as employers should be responsible. I would like to point out that the bill has been prepared to take account of the proposals made by regional commissions on alternative non-military services, in line with the relevant information approved at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting, discussed at the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism. The adoption of the bill does not require additional allocations from the State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u148	Yes, Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, has the floor for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u149	Thank you. And I want to talk to my colleagues again. This is only about improving current legislation. The first and main reason is that the scope of applying the work of alternatives is widening where there is a government component in the statute. The other one. We clearly and clearly state in the bill that the term of alternative service should be 1.5 times the term of the term of the service, that is, regardless of whether the term of the term is reduced, we are already in order not to make any further changes to the law, we point out that this term of alternative should be. There's 1.5 times as much of a term as a term. The bill strengthens the control of alternative non-military services and the grounds for refusal, i.e. the control functions of the State are increasing. You and I have received the conclusion of our Expert Office, and they believe that alternative service should be equal to the service. This, in our view, even caused amazement. It can’t be because those in alternative service serve alongside their home, have weekends, have vacations, have wages. And of course that's not justified. What's more, the world's experience suggests that, of course, this term is several times, one and a half times more than the term of service, this is also the experience of the Czech Republic, Spain, Croatia, Hungary, France, Greece, Serbia, Montenegro and so on. We were also told that it would be necessary for vacations to be as provided for by the Vacation Act. But once again, I want to emphasize that this will also violate the rights of our young person in the service, and that's why we've left this aside and this is the observation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Scientific and Experimental Authority. So we would ask you to support this bill and vote it in the final edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u150	Yes, Catherine Seed, thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss, Your Honor? Please state on board the national MPs who are registered. Andrew Schlell has the floor, representative of the Julia Timoshenko Faction. Yuri Solomatin will be next. Two-for-two-again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u151	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I would like to point out that the issue of alternative military service is a matter for settlement, and if the committee has proposed it can be supported. But I would like to say why the alternative service is attached to the profession. We're talking about a professional army here. And we have a report here that five years from now, up to ten years from now, we're going to have a professional army in 2015. How, then, can we bind this law? Will it then have to be changed to those who will appeal to the ranks of the Armed Forces? I still doubt that Ukraine will ever have a professional army under the circumstances that are now being formed, but no less. We now have a professional militia, we have 600,000. The police. And today the Supreme Council has increased the number of police or police officers to protect the courts, it is not known, from whom. So when I go back to the alternative service, I would like to point out that the question of vacations here might be considered, but the most important thing for me is to still depend on the alternative service to the term. What does that mean? Of course, you could say that the alternative service, it's slightly more profitable than the term. But now we can clearly imagine who is serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine? It's really the robotics army, it's the children of people, parents who couldn't provide the disease for their children. It's an alternative service. It's still people who go there from religious beliefs. I do not believe that there are representatives of people and parents who have paid some money to go there. Because that's what it costs not to go into the army at all. So we should still look at certain benefits for them. The fact that they go all the way to the place of residence is that most of the time, the regular service also happens at the place of residence. Yes, there are no vacations, but there are other benefits. So once again, I would like to say that in the first reading, of course, it is necessary to accept, but there would still have to be a closer look at the issue of reducing the duration of alternative service depending on its location. If this is a difficult place to go, especially this is a health service, it's the care of the seriously ill, it could be reduced here to encourage the arrival of alternatives. And where it's easier, where it's patronizing, you could leave the term that the committee has proposed. And in general, I'm saying again, here we don't have to go the way Turkmenistan did when, at the expense of the alternatives, they decided on health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u152	Yuri Solomatin refers the right to speak to the national deputy of Domanski. Please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Deputy Domansky, Communist faction. The essence of this law is correct, and I think it will have to be adopted. But the Ministry of Defence now has a new law on military service, where the basic principle of military formation is the contractual principle. Today, we form an army with a mixed principle: a common and contractual obligation. That law would therefore only apply until the Ministry of Defence passed a new bill. When we adopt a new law, a contractual system, I'm against it, I'm against it, I'm a mixed system, but then a citizen of our State wants to go to work, make a contract, don't want to go to the army. That is why I think that by the time we adopt a new law, this bill will have to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u155	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will tell you right now that I will not vote in favour of this law and I will oppose it. Why? The first reading adopts the ideology of law. Let's see what's put here in ideology. Dear Catherine Semenovna may not have seen that the government wants to bring us, MPs, all slippery and then show that we are the violators and international conventions ratified by Ukraine, in particular the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Copenhagen Council Resolution on Security and Cooperation in Europe since 29 June 1990, and the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantees equal rights for all citizens and does not allow restrictions on these rights on signs of political, religious and other beliefs. Who is entitled to alternative nonmilitary service? It is given to those who, according to religious beliefs, cannot take up arms. Is there one? Yes. We've admitted it. The law has been declared valid, and other documents have been recognized. Now, let's ask you a question. Why are we treating them one and a half times worse? It's the ideology of this law, there's nothing more in this law. That's why I'm calling on you. You can't vote for him. On this criterion, this is once. The other one. This is what you suggested in article five. In article six, you suggested making such changes. In your article five, alternative services are provided to enterprises, institutions, public utilities, or statutory funds that belong to the State or local government, as well as to the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. Honorable, enough, glory to God, and in a state of business. And if you were on the road to Odessa Kiev, which was about to be successfully completed by New Year's, now you're promised to finish Mr. Kipp by August 24th, I don't really know which August, you've seen that there's still work to be done there. And we have to do it, and there are plenty of roads around Ukraine. Now look, you're making a change to part three of article 11: late filing an application for alternative service, no confirmation of the truth of religious beliefs. These are the reasons for refusing alternative service. So the evaluation categories are introduced into the law. Who will appreciate whether you have a sufficient level of religious belief or not? Finally, there is control to be exercised by the State Authority on the issue of control and supervision of compliance with labour legislation. Your Honor, I strongly object. On vacations, too, it has been said. Against the adoption of this law in such a way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u156	Yes, you do. So it's Shirko. Is there a national deputy Shirko? No, no. Eugene Gorenik, please. There's no Eugene the Gunner. Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u157	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm in. But I'm in. For the ideology of the bill itself. Indeed, there must be an alternative, an alternative service, and an alternative. But in doing so, the issue of the criteria for the granting of alternative military service needs to be addressed. What are the reasons? What are the motives? And how can it be measured objectively that a person has reasons, perhaps has more reason, but he goes out to serve, and no one has them at all, but in order to avoid choosing an alternative service? I remember myself in my time as a pacifist, convincedly, almost deserted from the Soviet army, but I held myself back and served to the end. But I was tortured because I was a pacifist for my beliefs, but I had to serve, and I served. So let's solve the question of criteria, the reasons, and, of volunteerism, there has to be some force. If even we allow an alternative military service, then the state, the appropriate authority, decides where to go, or suddenly everyone wants to go somewhere, something else, and it's going to have to be someone who doesn't want to go to the sanitarium. Therefore, the principle of volunteering is not preposterous. And lastly, of course, this law is a palatifist, a radical solution to the problem is the contractual military service. And only when we move into the contractual military, into the professional army, will all these bills not be necessary. Thank you for your attention. I'm gonna take you in first. to re-read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Before the vote, the committee’s chairman, Catherine Samuelk, asked for a brief reply. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you that the Ministry of Defense and the Committee of Profiles supported this bill, that's the first. Secondly, men of honor, you can never compare the burden of professional service with alternative service. We gave believers the right to have such an opportunity, but we cannot be compared in any way. And so when I go to the hall, I ask you to support this bill, both in the first and second, and in the final version.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u160	Yes, Your Honor, may I have your attention, please proceed to the vote? I'm betting on a vote to be adopted on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Alternative Non-military Service, registration number 3608. [[on the scope of the work of alternatives]] Please vote. Based on the base. [[13:10:05]] For 288 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal for the committee to accept it as a matter of law as a whole. There's a warning. Yes, I see that's a warning. Well, I can't, unfortunately, I can't. A draft regulation on the 85th anniversary of LXM and the strengthening of youth-based social organizations in education with young people is under consideration. Well, the warnings say I can't. Please report to Poliit Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u161	Thank you. Andrei Polit, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Leninski Komsomol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. On 26 June 2004, 85 years were completed for the Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine, an organization that undoubtedly raised tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens, including the leaders of the country, political leaders, outstanding scientists, masters of art and military leaders. This list could continue indefinitely. The compatriots of all generations created a powerful State, heroically, often at the cost of their own lives, protected the Family during the Great Homeland War, and restored the country in post-war years. Komsomol raised young people on the idea of social justice. It was in this organization that young people were aware of their personal responsibility for the case, their collective skills, their communication with people. Today, in the face of the socio-economic crisis in Ukraine, the problems of young people have become serious and the problems of youth have deteriorated, their rights have been systematically violated, unemployment has increased, the health of the growing generation has deteriorated, child prostitution and crime have spread, and every year the real possibility of receiving higher education has been reduced. It has long been forgotten that the examination is a test of student knowledge, not a competition for the financial opportunities of their parents. At the same time, the political passivity of young people prevents them from defending their rights. Ukraine's youth movement is poorly structured and is only 5-7 per cent of young Ukrainian citizens. [[Think about that low figure!]] Therefore, the creative understanding of the Komsomol's experience, its undeniable ability to work with young people, can play a major role in building our country's youth movement, enhancing its social orientation and educational work. The decision, as you can see, proposes to support the initiative of Komsomol veterans, cosmomol State-level celebration organizations at the 85th anniversary of LCSMU, to take measures to strengthen the monitoring of compliance with the requirements of public youth policy legislation, to focus the efforts of relevant executive units, local governments on youth employment, the provision of first jobs, education and healthy lifestyles. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism will hold hearings in the Committee on the enhancement of the role of youth and children's organizations in the patriotic and moral education of young people and girls. And I am sure that, including most of the people's deputies present today in the hall, they went to Komsomol's school, went through their formation as individuals, achieved much in life thanks to the Komsomol. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this order and to support the youth. The Youth Committee supported the bill. This draft regulation proposes to be adopted as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, there is also a draft decision on the inadmissibility of this project, so in accordance with the Rules, I give the floor to the author of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft document that we have discussed. Oleg Tiangibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u163	Oleg Tajnibok, Buzki constituency 120, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, faction of Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today I am proposing a draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 85 years of comsomol and the strengthening of the role of youth society in raising and working with young people. Do not be misled by the fine words of the draft decree on strengthening the work of youth, public organizations, and youth. Believe me, no youth organization except Komsomol is mentioned in this decree. It is not mentioned that the purpose of this decree is different from the stated one. The decision is not taken to support youth movements, but to resuscitate and correct LXM and the USSR as a whole, which is already a threat to Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. [[B in m in s a l in]] First. The Lenin Communist Youth Union of Ukraine, as an integral part of the Komsomol, was only a youth organization; it was part of the USSR government system until August 1990 — a power that exterminated millions of Ukrainians with famines, concentration camps, and dispersed hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians across the vast Soviet Union’s vast spaces through cosmopolitan structures. The other one. I would like to ask you, colleagues, how long are we still going to be making similar decisions for our Parliament to celebrate the anniversary of the organizations that are part of the blackest pages of Ukrainian history? Third. What logic do you have with us, colleagues? In our address to the Ukrainian people at the special meeting of the Supreme Council of 14 May 2003 on the remembrance of the victims of the famine of 32-33 years, we have claimed that the famine of 32-33 years was an act of genocide of the Ukrainian people, that the total destruction of millions of Ukrainian farmers by artificial hunger has become a conscious act of the political system of Stalinism. So, comsomol was part of this system. He must share all responsibility for creating a famine in Ukraine. In view of this, it is unacceptable, for moral and political reasons, to commemorate the terrible tragedy of the Ukrainian famine and the celebration of the 85th anniversary of the Komsomol. Four. This ruling does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. In the 24th article, which states that there can be no privileges or restrictions on political beliefs, and in the 36th article. Next. This draft regulation has no financial and economic justification. Although the project itself contains provisions on the allocation of the necessary funds to carry out the measures indicated. But since this is not in agreement with the government and according to part five of the first article 3.5. 1 The Rules provide grounds for declaring this draft order inadmissible. In addition, I believe that "deployment of necessary funds" without an amount can be regarded as a political bribe to communists for supporting constitutional reform and other actions of power. In fact, this decision invites the authorities to sign a financial check, to which they will then make the necessary payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u164	Thank you, fellows! Please calm down. I have an offer, dear colleagues. So as not to politicize. Well, listen, please. So to avoid politicizing this subject, not to get nervous, let's now get to the bottom of the vote and that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there no objection? Please, Yuri Carmazin. Two-for-two-again. Yuri Carmazin. Then you'll finally say it. You'll be performing now, dear colleagues. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I was thinking of remembering all the dates in Ukraine’s history and not taking any dates selectively. I am against the fact that we have not supported the wide celebration of the anniversary of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenk's birth. I'm definitely against 50 grand today. The release of the newspaper "Crime Truth", whose editor-in-chief, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, has been awarded the honorary letter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, you printed every day in your numbers, Olesia Buzina "Vurdalak Taras Shevchenko". And somehow no one's making a sound, reverend! Look what's going on! Shame on our writer! The honor of every Ukrainian is disgraced! And everyone is silent, and the Komsomol in Crimea is silent, and the Communist Party is silent in Crimea, and everyone else is silent! Why? Maybe because they're not Ukrainian?Oh, my God! Maybe that's why. So, dear friends, I'd like us to keep our eyes on the decision, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. It says here: To support the initiative. What's so weak that you have to support her? Provide active help. With what? Money? Allocation of necessary funds. Where, then, is the economic justification? So we have to be clear: if the draft of the decision, let's put all the groundwork on it, how much it's going to cost. Here the Supreme Council is tasked with meeting with veterans and so forth. Well, that's very right. But the Head will decide when to do so. Perhaps this does not require our determination with you. Therefore, distinguished national MPs! Our Constitution prohibits any single ideology from ruling in the state. In this case, in paragraph 3, which refers to the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it is said that one ideology will be dominant in the state. I don't think that's right. And that's why I want you to look at the third point of this decision, where it's clearly written, what to do. Complement training programs for general educational institutions. So we didn't write this to add to the famine. They didn't write that to supplement it with other things. But wait, you've seen our textbooks poorly, or you've been studying them poorly. I'd like you to study them. Mr. Head, I ask you to make a note of those who shout out of place. It is not our job today to recommend to the Lviv District Council that the order of the head of the Lviv District Council be revoked. If they've allowed a violation, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u166	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Michaela Melniczuk, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor to prepare for John Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u167	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region The faction is that we're going to vote in favour. You, Your Honor, let us take a careful look at the entire history of our country. Why are we so disdainful of ourselves? I was a member of the LXM. And that I'm involved in the events that we're talking about here. 90 or 80 percent of parliamentarians are former members of the LXM. First of all, why don't we respect our story? Why do we disrespect our young people and rebuild Ukraine? These were thousands, tens of thousands of troops that were building our nation. And today, in recent decades, no one has been able to destroy a strong state like Ukraine, or perhaps this year we will never let anyone do it again. Let's think about it, and then read about why you're not looking at this thing, increasing the role of social youth organizations. Why we're stuck in 85 years, not looking at what's going on. What about today’s youth, do social organizations have equal rights for young people to work? No, it's not. We're taking a youth organization of socialist youth, the wing of our party, they have equal rights, which is another youth wing in another party. They have the right to be in office, they are given positions, and of all the jobs we do, you are a member of the socialist wing, the youth wing of the party. That's why we need to think. We need to think about what we do with young people. When we shower young people with something that we cannot agree here in Parliament. It's very sad that the president finally understood, until today, you see, in the young people, the wrong scholarship, let's raise it. But it's just bullying young people to raise 50-60 dollars of scholarship. Who Can Live Today? And if he's coming from the village, where he doesn't pay, nothing, does the village kids learn? How can he live for this scholarship? What do we do in wedlocks, hydrotechnics? Where do tens of thousands of graduates go? It's clear that they're gone. What can you do about this young man? Why are we taping these images and then not letting a person earn a piece of bread, as they say? And we're talking about what doesn't have to be marked. We may need to make sure that we do not forget the past and build a better future for our young ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u168	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u169	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues, guests! At this very moment, millions of fellow countrymen who have fallen into the space of Komsomol’s youth have no exaggeration toward our hall. They were not only the best of their life years, but also the good things, the romance, the search, the joys, the pains. So let us settle our passions and think calmly, seriously before voting on the matter under consideration. It's not just another date or a daily event. In fact, we will evaluate the eighty - fifty - five - year activities of the LXM. Few social groups have such a story — an easy, controversial and generally glorious, fascinating story. At Zacarpatta, for example, comsomol inherited and developed traditions of socialist association, rural youth associations, and other progressive organizations. By abstracting from a specific, we can honestly admit that the Ukrainian commsomol has performed a number of social and significant functions, the main of which are: education, education, protection, management, permits and others. Publicized merit. to protect the country from Hitler’s invaders and their embankments, to contribute to the reconstruction of the war - torn national economy in Ukraine’s economic uplift. Tens of millions of young men and girls came to school in Komsomol. Many of them are present here today, and the experience gained in various areas of social activity is increasingly used. Of course, as with any public organization, the mass organization was a comsomol all about the difficulties, and the calculations, and the flaws. And right now, we need to consider a whole series of bills literally, which are given out to both the Labour Teams and the Youth Patriotic Education Program, and here, the lessons of the Komsomol will be worth more than ever. So let's be sober, giving him a critical assessment, and we're going to weigh it objectively, and we're going to give an impulse to improve the activities of public organizations. We must get rid of both the nihilistic approach to the history of the Ukrainian Komsomol and so on. This can and should be the result of a draft decision, especially its subsequent execution. We do. in the youthful movement. I am proud to have started my work life in comsomol, and he has given me much of what I am today. That is what millions of fellow countrymen will say today. If we are actually concerned about Ukraine's future, we will support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u170	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we have two pros, one against. Yuri Solomatin, are you in favour or against? For. So, please, who's going to object? And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u171	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! First, this project is, indeed, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly in the 24th and 36th articles, where there can be no privileges based on political beliefs, and all citizens' associations are equal before the law. This decree confers privileges on one organization. At the expense of the state, the left hand side once again wants to prop up and advertise their left ideas before the next election, and therefore this decision cannot be voted for. And now, essentially. Komsomol was not just a youth organization. During the 70 years of the totalitarian regime, it was an integral system of government that was led by the Company. The government that organized the famine when millions of Ukrainians died was an advance team. The government, which organized numerous deportations of civilians of different nationalities, was ahead. The government that built the concentration camps, the gulags, persecuted the dissidents, created an era of stagnation, built an empire of evil, and this is far from a complete list of credits where the commodores were always ahead. We are invited to celebrate the anniversary of an organization that is part of the blackest pages of Ukrainian history, and how? To conduct meetings and concerts, to identify the veterans of the Komsomol, to create a museum of cosmopolitan fame, to name just what times of repression, or times of stagnation, to change the school program and to rewrite Ukrainian history. And for all of that, it's going to cost money. How much? We don't know how many. As long as it takes. Naphthaline can be heard from such suggestions. You'll laugh, but according to the Supreme Council's draft decree, you're going to meet the commosomol veterans, and the State Committee on Television and Radio is going to provide coverage of all this mess in the media. The Supreme Council, which is given in the ruling, is the role of the Supreme Court, for it is proposed that an unwarranted document on the participation of the Komsomol organization in the anti-State bloc be found. So the left, as they take this step, feel they're losing confidence in the electorate because of their false politics, because today they're singing the oligarchic regime through. That is why such projects are being developed, and even in less than a month, they are being integrated into the agenda, while other projects aimed at social protection await months or more. But what I'm saying is that the left has the same participation as the Communists in Russia, because in the last election, they lost their voters almost twice as much because they were playing with power. And left ideas.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear national MPs, one minute. Committee head, Katerina Seminouk, please microphone. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, the committee is represented by various political forces. And with the exception of one member of the committee, the members of our committee expressed their support for the ruling. And given that each of us, who has a memory, has a historical, human school, finally passed the Komsomol school, who remembers the historical contribution of the Komsomol to the development of our state, I am very much asking you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules. Let's not politicize, dear fellows, let's define by vote! I beg you, Viacheslav, you! First, I'm going to put a draft decision on non-admissibility to the vote, and then we're going to continue to determine. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a draft ruling, registration number 4613/p on the inadmissibility of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on 85 Years of LCSMU and increasing the role of youth organizations in education with young people. Author of the national deputy Tajnibok. Yes, there goes the vote. [[13:32:36]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. There is a requirement, dear colleagues. Now, one minute, I'll read it. Our Ukraine is 91, the Ukraine is 2, the Communists are 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Labour Ukraine is 0, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is 0, the People's Government is 2, the SPU is 0, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 14, the Democratic Initiative is 0, the Agrarian Party is 0, the People's Choice is 0, the National Choice is 0, the NDP is 0, the Postfactional is 5. [[united]] So, respectable colleagues. We have every reason to put to the vote, please note, the adoption of a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 85th anniversary of the LXM and the strengthening of the role of youth social organizations in the upbringing of young people. [[Registration number 4613]] I'll put it to a vote right away in general. Please vote. [[13:33:48]] For 260 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The draft decree approving the National Information Programme for 2003-2005 is being announced for consideration. The factions, please. Please be calm, dear fellows. Our Ukraine - 0, Ukraine - 49, Communist - 58, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs Party, Working Ukraine - 39, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 18, People's Government - 21, SPI-19, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 2, Democratic Initiatives - 11, Agrarian Party - 16, People's Choice - 13, NDP - 10, Postfaction - 4. [[united]] Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u175	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm not surprised that there is a time on the profile committee to push this decision, and for example, a bill on the provision of the first job for young Deputy Homutinnik of the majority, by the way, two years has already been "walking" by parliament and there will be no turn for him. That's what this committee's doing. What about it? To you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that there are at least two unacceptable things in the standards of this decree. First of all, we're going to be making our decision in the educational institutions to form the educational hours of the history of LXM, which is the current youth organization, not gone, and to allocate the funds for it the next item. And you will be obliged, even though we do not authorize you all, to meet with the current assets of LXM in June 2004. So let's all make such proposals, you'll all be obliged. Have a meeting with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u176	Yuri Lucenko, please. Well, Your Honor, it's already been decided. Okay, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u177	Honorable MPs and respectable radio listeners! I would still like to take away the political passions on this issue. I think it's a story. to respect what she is, to remember her and to welcome with her the Jubilee all those commodores who were there in line and to advise those who were cosmopolitan "grannies" made banks, firms and holdings to share with the private commodores who will celebrate the Jubilee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u178	Thank you. Katerina Samuelk. Dear colleagues, the question is discussed, exhausted, everything. The committee head is a replica, as mentioned here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u179	I'm giving an explanation. The law. Ukraine's draft law on State guarantees of first place of work for young people was in order of the day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you, blocking the work of the Supreme Council, breaking microphones and so forth, did everything you could to keep this bill from being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u180	Yes, Andrew School. Please, very briefly. And let's keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u181	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, I am here to support my colleague Tsagnibok, who has given his speech with the unacceptability of this bill. And I'll say, let's not really politicize. Let's take it in cold blood. The Ukrainian people will finance one party’s election campaign. The Ukrainian people will finance a change in textbooks that in principle cannot even be spoken of. What are we going to do? All the textbooks have written so little or so about Ukrainian history and so many different nonsensees that these nonsensees will be added. And finally, let's define, let's let the Supreme Council determine: does it serve the interests of really holding political groups or advocates the interests of the people? Let's ask these private commodores who now live in Ukraine who were once them, what do they want? A record of the 80th anniversary or a better life? And this is a declarative statement that gives nothing to the private accomplices, neither the former nor the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask that we continue our work in harmony, speedily and productively. We have so many bills to consider. The draft Regulation for the approval of the National Information Programme for 2003-2005 is being announced for consideration. I'm asking you to pay attention, 2003. It's 2004 and the third month is coming. Deputy Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine Zivilski Oleg Petrovich Please, very briefly. Prepare Michael Kouzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u183	Dear National Deputies! The National Information Programme is a mechanism through which national regulation is being implemented in the field of information to ensure the system, complexity and coherence of the development of information processes in Ukraine and to help address one of the most current issues of today's information society. The draft decree is designed to implement article nine of the Ukrainian National Information Programme Act. The task of the national information programme for three years is to determine the orientations in the area of information for a three-year period, a system document that determines which directions the work will take on the creation of the state's modern national infrastructure. These tasks will be taken into account in the preparation of annual budgets. The document combines tasks that reflect the direction of information activities with the results that are expected under the proper annual funding of tasks. The most important expected results of the National Information Programme for three years include the development of the Internet in Ukraine, the creation of the Electronic Government information system, the creation and integration of information resources, the introduction of an electronic documentation system, the creation of an information protection system, including the anti-virus protection of the Information State, the improvement of information and analysis of public authorities, the introduction, the continuation of informationization of public educational institutions, the computerization of rural schools. I really want to draw your attention, too, to the fact that this is the 2003-2005 program. The thing is, it's going through some pretty complicated stages of reconciliation. And so it turns out that by the time she got to this Parliament, she's in fourth and she's out of line, and she's out of line. I therefore propose to accept this programme, but have made the changes proposed by the Committee on Legal Policy to make changes for 2004-2006. It is relevant for this period. And I don't think there's gonna be any problem. And if we don't take this program today or we postpone it, the budget that is now starting to start to start for 2005, it's going to form without this strategy, which is now being put in place with all of you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u184	Thank you, Oleg Petrovich. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov is head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u185	Dear comrades, people's deputies. The Committee on Science and Education reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of the tasks of the National Information Programme for 2003-2005. Registration number 4007 from 18.07.2003 And I think it's because it's out of date and it needs a lot of work. As a result, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the prescribed draft decree to the subject of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee takes this decision, also taking into account the decisions of the Information Advisory Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 7 November 2003, the decisions of many committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign matters; environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster; finance and banking; cultural and spiritual issues; legal policy issues; the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the need for substantive development of the programme. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority: to accept the comments expressed in its conclusions. And briefly why the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council is so. First of all, the program, like all of us, is probably what's going on for the next few years. As has already been noted, this programme has been adopted for the years 2003-2005. That is, the Committee has long thought of 2003 as not to be considered. 2004's coming too. And as for the funds that are in the State budget, they already are. According to the committee, it is appropriate to present the programme now for 2005-2007. And this program should not be the way it is now, that is, there are some separate tasks there, but then what is or what is going to happen. And the program should be such that there will be funding for each year. And what do we get? I mean, it's strange now to have programs that you can't even control. Therefore, I would like to add to the protocol that the Committee of the Supreme Council considers that the Cabinet of Ministers does not take into account the requirements of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on National Information Programmes, which stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers. Each year. Along with the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports on the status and information in Ukraine on the National Information Programme for the next 3 years and the information programme for the next fiscal year with defined sources of funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u186	Yes. Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to discussion, we need a "2" - Z, "2" - vs. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Please put the name of the national MPs who signed up, George Carmazin, on the table, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u187	Vladimir Cherniak is a faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, sad and funny. It's sad that we haven't accepted the information program yet. It's hard for me to imagine a modern developed country, or at least one that wants to be developed, that doesn't solve information problems, in general, all areas of life, higher education, public education, governance. We were delayed, delayed, delayed, and ridiculous. The profile committee is now proposing that the programme was for 2003-2005 and that it should be returned back in 2004 and processed and then put into a new term. If we continue to delay this, we will not solve the question again, because there will be a new budget, a new year's budget will be formed, and the financing of this program will not be solved again. Therefore, it may be necessary to agree in this situation that it is necessary to return it, but it is necessary to protocolly define the terms that take these wishes into account in very short periods, the program is being updated, and the Supreme Council will review the program as soon as possible and approve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin, please. Is there a Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin? Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u189	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! First of all, we can't vote for this programme right now for 2003-2005, because today is 2004. That is why it must be called off by the government and permanently replaced. I absolutely agree here with the committee's distinguished National Deputy Radionov, which should be from 2004, not 2005, because it's 204 years old, if your proposal is to be taken fully into account, from 2004 to 2007, that's the first time. And secondly, in fact, among the positions listed here, I would like the Scientific and Experimental Authority to propose further development and use of the official Internet site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mihajlovich, just to strengthen the democratic principles of Ukrainian society. We have to be open to society, and for us, the national deputies of Ukraine, you know how much more is not revealed. How many times do I ask you to open an order? Open it so that the MP can see. I cannot understand for whom today is there an order if the Ukrainian national MP is unable to get to know them? Then put the griff there, "It's all secret." What do you want to hide? Everything that's hidden there is still known about these secrets. But I ask you to take such a step and take a step towards openness, first of all, from the deputies first, to the MPs, and then to all the citizens of Ukraine. Now this system is being proposed to create an automated information and analysis system for whom: State Treasury, Tax Offices, Court of Auditors, Minpraci. What about the people? Where is the transparency of all these processes for humans? There is no transparency. What about the judicial system? How can a person today receive help on what he is doing? Why does she ask the deputy to know when the case in the Supreme Court is to be considered, and how many months does she have to wait for this person? Let's provide, it's very simple, and it's cheap then, and it's accessible to people. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have an offer: to make this decision: to approve the National Program's tasks in two readings. If the committee supports, then only we can vote in the first reading, then correct all the disadvantages and do the right thing. Or another alternative: to return to the government, let it process and give the program for 2004 - 2007. But not only do they have to solve their own issues, but there are, first and foremost, issues relating to ensuring the realization of the rights and freedoms of citizens as expressed in the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u190	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u191	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I'd, you know, like to do some illusions here, because the program, the National Information Program, well, y. Of course, it's 2003-2005, it could have been 1996 and 2007 -- it could have been the same difference, but it's not the main difference. In Ukraine, where information is virtually undeveloped, and what we're going to say here, when we have our jobs, we, the national MPs, some, I don't know, did some kind of work, it doesn't call a computer, it doesn't call a device, it doesn't mean anything like that, even though we should have this device here in our possession at any time, so we can go to any document, to any decision we want to have access to it. And what about our electorate, about the private citizens of Ukraine, about which they have a bearing on information. It's the same as privatization. I mean, they know it's what it is, that it's happening, that it's there "received," but what they don't really know or possess. You could finally talk about positives. Yes, we need to develop national information, this program, but you know, I don't want us to be like the African Bedouins who put computers in their tents. They were all designed and shown: Look, we have computers. The only thing they didn't have was electricity. The computers were still there, but no one was using them. This is what happens in Ukraine. We're taking an information program here, we can take it 10 times, but the open society in Ukraine is not being built with information. What to say is that when a national MP really can't even know whether his bill came or whether the law was later passed in electronic documents in the Supreme Council or not. And that's the problem. And to the end. You know, if there is desire, there will always be means and opportunities. It is felt, however, that the government did not wish to approve the tasks of the National Information Programme. There was no desire. The bill, prepared by putting down the sleeves, and nobody reads over the name, I think this bill is right. Somewhere there, they prepared it, they dropped it, a 5-row case, and that's why it doesn't have to be supported by the Supreme Council. Prepare a normal bill, put it under review, provide it not only with words, but with deeds, and I don't think anyone in the Supreme Council is going to support it. [[referred to as the material part]] Beyond, if we want to have at least the beginnings of an open society, we need to develop a national information system, but information is information, and here in this bill it doesn't smell information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u192	John the Rabbit has a word for Alexander. instead of Vladimir Yavorowski. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u193	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! What are we wasting our time for? If we respected ourselves, these, so-called National Information Program tasks would not only be considered by Parliament but would not come out of the Cabinet of Ministers. I appeal to the leadership of the parliamentary majority. To be more demanding to the government is your government and you are responsible for its activities. The country where paper written on its knee at lunch becomes government documents and the subject of Parliament’s consideration. The nature of the project The Regulation on Approval of National Information Program tasks eloquently indicates that we are dealing with a work on a free subject rather than a legal document. First. We're in the yard in 2004. and the Parliament is invited to adopt the programme for 2003-2005. Wizards, not government officials, want to return to the year 2003 that has passed. Who will be responsible for the fact that in 2003 Ukraine did not have an information program? If there were no programs, there was no report of the state of information in the country, which was already a violation of current legislation, particularly the National Information Programme Act. It makes sense to ask, "Is there a National Information Programme in Ukraine at all?" There is no such thing as Article 2 of the National Information Programme Act. The government and the Supreme Council have brought the program to one of its elements in the task system. Therefore, a complex management document has to be dreamed of. We must stop the government’s proposed practice. To do that, you have to rewrite the National Information Programme Act in a way that would put a general ideology in place. In doing so, we should take advantage of what the Supreme Council adopted in the first reading of the bill. The requirements for the structure of state-of-the-art targeted programmes are set out in article 9 of this bill, which is about national programs. Taking this opportunity, I ask the relevant committee to take immediate action to enact the Law on State Targeted Programmes, which will allow for the unification of national legislation that applies to State programmes in general. The other one. The document proposed for consideration consists of a list of tasks, which is essentially a list of the purposes of the most general form, as well as a list of leading public clients and expected results again in an extremely general way, which will clearly prevent any control over the implementation of this decision. As a national MP, I want to know the durations of the tasks, the scope and the sources of funding, and also the year-by-year breakdown, and not the oriented, but the actual contracting authority. The expected result should also be much more specific. The other one. Contents of the document. The content, as well as the form, does not withstand any criticism. In fact, we are dealing with plans to build information systems only in government and everything. But in the area of these tasks, there is an extraordinary inadequacy. In particular, it lacks any task of creating information systems in the area of environmental protection and the use of natural resources. How does the government plan to monitor environmental conditions, implement commitments under the Kyoto Protocol? God himself may not know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u194	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. On the grounds of the committee's head, Mikola Tomenko, and now we're going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, we can accept serious warnings about this document. I understand that the principle of the program should be, especially that it is funded in the budget. It's very important to me that if the Supreme Council accepts this document and this decree, the most important thing is that there is no one here, and it's surprising to me that there is no mention of the National Academy of Sciences among government contractors and among those who will do so, the Cybernetics Institute. They're doing information in Ukraine and the U.S.A., the Ministry of Defense, all but Ukrainian scientists who know how to do it. So I have a clear and clear warning and a clear proposal -- in case of a vote, we have to make it clear that the main contracting authority for this project, on which the funds are put, should be the National Academy of Sciences, such as the Cybernetics Institute and the branch bonds that specialize in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u196	Dear National Deputies! We continue our morning session for 15 minutes. And now we vote. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on approval. I'm sorry, the draft Regulation for approval of the National Information Programme for 2003-2005, registration number 4007, based on. Please vote. [[13:59:18]] For 249 Decision taken. A draft Law on Antarctic Activities is being announced for consideration. Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, please. Let's talk very briefly about this issue so that we can successfully conclude our morning session.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u197	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We have to vote with you today on a very relevant law on Antarctic activity. By the way, last week, our nine - time expedition traveled to the southern region of our planet, particularly Antarctica, where a practical study of this continent is taking place on the sixth continent. Together with our foreign counterparts, our scientists have been able to use a natural laboratory unique to study the climate of the planet, monitor the weather on earth, create unique databases, and so forth. I'll remind you that Antarctica is a huge cache of clean fresh water. This is a very big problem. In addition, you know that in the tops of Antarctica there are very mineral deposits. We don't even know their price yet. In addition, you know that there are huge fish stocks around this Antarctic. And in our time, we have taken so much for our nation. In connection with the fact that our expedition has been in operation for eight years, and in 1994, we became members of the Convention for the Protection of Antarctic Living Marine Resources, we have had many organizational, administrative, legal problems. So in the proposed bill, we want to define the legal principles of an Antarctic activity in order to ensure our national presence in Antarctica, to raise the geopolitical, economic role of our state in this region, to defend the strategic interests of the state, and to promote its scientific, economic activities there. The law extends to all activities related to the research and use of Antarctica in Ukraine. The law also provides a number of social guarantees for those who are there. When these people arrive, their place of residence is normalized, they know where they were, they are recorded in the workbook and so on. The law provides for a system of State oversight of the security of Antarctic activities, emergency activities, insurance and so forth. We understand that there may be some additions to this bill. We're open. And the committee proposes that this bill should be voted on in the first reading, based on the proposals made by the deputies who have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u198	Let's go to. Is there a need to discuss? Who insists? Carmagine insists, it's written first. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Please explain the names of the people’s deputies on the talk board. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u199	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to express my deep gratitude to the national MPs of Nikolayenko, Yukhnovsky, Titnik, Rodionov, Tarasyuk, Matvienka for their introduction of this law. I am very sorry that he had not been involved in the agenda for a very long time and had not been discussed. In fact, we had to accept it a long time ago. Because the absence of this law just led to the fact that the weather courts, which were, say, based in Odessa, they turned into shipowners who drove all the time from Turkey. At times, they were overloaded and drowned. And now, the base that existed in science, it's cut to the root. And so I was surprised to learn that in its conclusions, the government says that there is no need for any economic spending on this law, nothing is needed. I definitely disagree with that. The costs have to be and they will be science-based because the purpose of the Antarctic activities that are dealt with in the law is to ensure Ukraine's geopolitical and strategic interests in the Antarctic region and to promote socio-economic and scientific progress in the Ukrainian society. At the same time, I do not understand, and I share the view of the Chief Scientific Expert Office that the definition of the payment order by sea vessels, the entities of the Antarctic activities, of the value of the permit for their stay on the continent, should be established by the Ministry of Education and Science. Since when? Do we have another analogy when the Ministry of Education and Science establishes which payments are not due? We sometimes allow this to happen to the government of Ukraine, so let us do so. And we're not going to set any separate standards. So I'd like to ask you to cancel on the second reading. Now, with regard to prohibitions and restrictions and the state research program. I believe that the national operator of the one that predicted and this notion of Ukraine in Antarctica should be strengthened by the role of the National Academy of Sciences. It's the National Academy of Sciences that has to be running practically with the Ministry of Science and Education all the research that's going to be there. And article 10. The financing of Antarctic activities must be ensured. I'm in favour of the adoption of this law, which comes out of the Antarctic Treaty of December 1, 1959, which Ukraine joined, we're just too late for a very long time, but we need to make substantial changes in our second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u200	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u201	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there is such a wonderful saying: "Stretch your legs with your clothes." And when we go back and forth to some of the bills and some of the money that is offered, it is also sometimes mentioned. I never understood from the report of the head of the committee of profile, do they, for example, have their own interests in Antarctica, do they engage in Antarctic activities, such as our geostrategic partner Poland, or even such a huge state known worldwide as the People's Republic of China and some others? I understand that we inherited what was in the RSR, but very much of what we inherited, we cut into parts, like strategic bombers TU-154, we blew up rockets that were in combat gear, and so on and so forth. So, at last, I'm not convinced that this is exactly the direction that Ukraine needs to work, even though I feel sorry for myself, even though I'm a person who has an education in natural science, I want our National Academy of Sciences and our scientists to work, including in Antarctica. And from this point of view, really, such a bill is needed, if we're going to be at least one leg there, we have to do everything we can to make this leg stand tight and to pull the other leg up to it, but at the same time, take into account what I was told a little bit earlier. And from this, finally, and lastly: environmental issues that are inseparably linked to activities in Antarctica. That's the question that could be our Antarctic expeditions. So it's been done to go back to Ukraine, taking into account the Antarctic experience to a new level, and it's helped us, a country with very high industrial potential, otherwise to look at the environmental problems that lie ahead. So we need to adopt this bill in the first reading and work on it thoroughly in a way that really helps our scientists, for our experts to realize Ukraine's presence in this very beautiful one. The continent of Antarctica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, who is against this bill? Who insists on the right? Please, Ivan Mihovich. Microphone. Ivan Mihovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, in view of the great possibilities for the Arctic and Antarctica to be implemented, such a bill is needed. And I'm going to suggest that we take this as a base. At the same time, given the opinion of the former leader of the previous expedition, the Hungarian environmental scientist Jaroslav Kuzenka and other scientists, I propose to make such changes. Article 17 adds references to the requirements of international environmental conventions and treaties, Article 19 defines the status of the winterer and the obligation of his State to provide for the duration of the expedition, including treatment, nutrition, specialties. This should be done in view of international practice, Soviet experience, and today’s violations of legislation, of employment agreements. Yes, the winterers have not yet been paid in full in 2001, and other violations have not been removed. And in article 20, it's appropriate to include a rule on pension accounting and the comparison of winterers with public service professionals, because they perform extremely difficult tasks in extreme conditions. In fact, Ukraine should be marked by gains.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-02-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a draft ruling to the vote. draft Antarctic Act for adoption as a basis. Registration number 3411. [[14:11:10]] For-54 The system didn't work. The law was passed, but the system didn't work. Dear colleagues! Well, please, the system didn't work. I'll put it to the vote again. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Antarctic Act. Registration number 3411. And now I'm asking the Regulatory Committee to watch, we're going to define immediately, even if the machine doesn't work. [[14:12:03]] For-45 Dear National Deputies! This is 392 pro, because this is where the system worked the other way around. Dear colleagues! If you don't mind, you really see a painting that's voted almost 400 deputies, we're in favour. Thank you very much for seeing me. Well, after the break, there'll be no more people, we won't vote -- that's the question. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. The draft Antarctic Act will be voted on.
