ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:06]] A total of 436 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatolia Romanović. Let's welcome him and wish him well. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich, from the MP's "Centre" and his membership in the MP's group "Soyuz". [[Applause]] In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Yesterday we agreed that the performance from each faction to five minutes. I'm asking the factions and groups to submit their statements, while I'm announcing the parliamentary requests that came when there's no objection. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Oleg Zarubinsky to the President of Ukraine concerning the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 30 April 2004, No. 500. [[About the creation of a single national register of natural persons]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. At least 150 national deputies are required to do so, I recall. [[10:04:57]] For 169 Request supported. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:22]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Gregory Bondarenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the problems of price regulation and control. Vassil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of regressive claims against the Fund for Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases of Ukraine. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of status as a participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident in CHAES to the inhabitants of the city of Kirovgrad. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the honour, dignity and reputation of the Ukrainian People's Party. Anatolia Átnajko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of cash compensation for unrecovered coal for the household needs of the miner of the city of Jenakiyev. Vassil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the emergency situation on the central tour in Lugansk. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the consideration of the state institutions of the amateur invention of a non-fuelly clean engine. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to a request for deliberate violations of the Ukrainian Advertising Act by a tobacco company. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for delaying the opening of a specialized public education facility for blind and visually impaired children in the Volin region. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation of debt to workers and the increase of pensions to pensioners of the Gorlov chemical plant of the Donetsk Region. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the prevention of the destruction of geodetic and cartographic activities in Ukraine. Grigory Omelchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent the Prime Minister from holding candidates for the post of President of Ukraine in connection with the failure to meet the legal requirements for the provision of copies of court decisions and other documents relating to former courts and crimes committed by Viktor Yanuković. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko, on the protection of the land and property rights of shareholders of the collective agricultural enterprise "Premega" of the Hornostiv region of the Hersonian region. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the National Tax Administration of the Montenegrin City Head for the illegal establishment of small architectural forms in the markets of Chernigova, the need to monitor the filling and inventory of jobs in markets. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the situation surrounding the lease of land in the area of the colporteur market in Kirovograd. Mikoli Soloshenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the state of criminal investigation of fraud in relation to a number of domestic enterprises, including a subsidiary of the Open Shareholder Company of the New York Pipeworks. Alexander Goodima to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the mass violations of effective legislation by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the authorities of the State and local self-government during the presidential election campaign. Ivan Tomić to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal actions by local administrative and judicial authorities concerning the farm "Kaunas" in the area of Kyrovograd. Groups of national deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Head of the National Television Council, the radio broadcaster of the 5th Channel cable television operators Donetské, Dnipropetrovsk, Zakartá district and the elimination of violations of the rules of law in the field of information policy, economic activity and constitutional rights of citizens. [[Dusty, Fialkowski, and others]] Michaela Rodionova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal actions of the investigator of the Shevchenkov district office of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev. Mikhail Poljančić to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister Ivan Kirilenko, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the criminal activity of the private enterprise Mercuriy Invest in the calculation of the non-delivery of mineral goods to the private agricultural enterprise "Fortun" in the Curtkov region of Ternopil. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the establishment of property rights, destruction and violation of the rights of citizens who have contributed personal funds to the construction of a multi-story building in the city of Gola Dorist. Mikli Tomenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the organisation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine's illegal protection of the campaign materials of the candidate for President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine as police co-workers. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the definition of the minimum and maximum level of enrolment of schoolchildren in urban and rural education schools in the region of Chernigiv. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the Closure. Kyiv District Hospital in Seminal Region of Poltava Dmitry Rudzkowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the gravity of the investigation of a criminal case based on the fact of a road accident. Gregory Omelchenka to the head of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region regarding the failure to make court decisions regarding the former judges of the Prime Minister. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on Verification of Violations of Law on Advertising During Broadcasting by National Televisions of Ukraine of the Olympic Games in Athens. Mr. Nestor Schuffrić to the deputy head of the High Council of Justice for bringing judges to justice for violating their oath, as well as Vasile Czervoniy, Alexiyuk, head of the Ukrainian State Service, overseeing the security of Ukraine's Maximov aviation on a situation that has arisen at the State Aviation Company Lviv Airlines. Alexiyuka, Zagreb to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the implementation of President of Ukraine's decree on measures related to the 60th anniversary of the beginning of the eviction of ethnic Ukrainians from Poland. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General for the abuse of law enforcement officials in the Volin region in relation to the citizen of Nazarchuk. Thus, 33 parliamentary requests were received and made by honorary colleagues. Of them, "Our Ukraine" is 11, the Communist faction is 7, the "Regions of Ukraine" is 1, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is 1, the faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine" is 1, the People's Agrarian Party is not, the faction of the Socialist Party is 2, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 5, the Alliance Group is 3, the NDP, the industrialists and entrepreneurs are 1. That's a total of 33. Let's move on to the performances. And I'm sorry, another colleague of honor, the 34th Jury of Shirka to the Ukrainian Minister of Health, to prevent officials from preventing the health department of the Mikolai district from providing free medical care to the residents of the area. Dear colleagues, listen to another announcement. According to the Supreme Council Rules, the Kukoba People's Deputy has declared his membership as a member of the MP's "Trudova Ukraine" political party. Let's move on to the statements made by members of the MPs, factions with statements, reports, queries. Show up in five minutes. From the faction of the national-democratic party of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine" we have the word "Mike." Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u2	Deputies! Today I would like to make a statement to the President, Prime Minister, asking the Head of the Supreme Council to support us with such a request. You know, in June-July, there was a statement regarding the removal of the director of the Arsenal factory. I can tell you that we have not received any serious answers, nor have we heard any statements. Moreover, today the trend of knowledge of directors continues for no substantial reason. The director of the most famous scientific research institute in Ukraine, Quant, has already been removed from the director of the huge Radar factory, Bilshovik, in Lviv, the director of the Institute. The appointment of directors goes without taking into account their preparation, knowledge, and opportunities to make use of the achievements of these enterprises. This is devastating to Ukraine’s industrial complex. I believe that it is no longer a whim or a desire of this minister, but it is a policy of state authorities that must be changed. Whether we will lose an industrial complex that has been organized in Ukraine for decades and its success or protect it. I think today we need to put a moratorium before the end of the President's election in the new government to free the leaders of Ukraine's large businesses. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The factions of the Social Democratic Party, the Labour Ukraine, the Regions of Ukraine, the Democratic Initiatives, the People's Authority and the People's Democratic Party of Ukraine hand over the right to speak to Stepan Gavrish. [[united]] Please. Prepare Sovkovic from the Centr group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! The elections of the President of Ukraine reached only their calendar environment, but by the power of their emotions, conflicts, cynicism and ambitions they are already inflicting irreparable injuries on Ukrainian society, they are methodically tearing Ukraine apart, threatening national stability as a cementing matter of sovereignty, independence. By calling for a rebellion, we defy our people's consciousness, push them into civil opposition, strife. More and more, naked populism and its own social philosophy. Some political forces in recent years have been replaced by open rematchism and political aggression. Real values are replaced by surrogates. Passwords and calls for open lies, democratic values -- pseudopolitics. More and more, the naked rhetoric richly colored in Ukrainian colors becomes the main motive and plan on the way to victory over the highest power in Ukraine. Unfortunately, there is also some part of the Ukrainian press that is actively involved in this, or even emotionally and prejudiced, that is increasingly preparing instructions to fight against power, opponents, political forces on the other side of their choice. Another point of view is not only not to be understood, but also to be pursued in any way. The darkness of our sick existence poses a threat to a single - sex society. More and more, political competition, which is the basis of political progress in any democracy, is being replaced by an interpersonal struggle. The opponent is criticized, not for his actions as a leader and a statesman, but for his personal qualities, using dirty technologies, or simply provocations, falsifications. It was also dangerous to spread the ideology of artificial separation of the state as a form of organizing the lives of the people from the source of power, the nationality of the Ukrainian people. This is a straight line to the loss of statehood. The long - term historical period of decline in Ukrainian development taught us nothing, the Ukrainians. Indeed, colonial heritage does not give us a chance at our own history. The State of Ukraine is and is the Ukrainian people, it is the foundation of the national idea, the unification of the people into its state -- a major mission that no one or power can usurp, even any desire to gain that power. Tragic consequences may be the conflict of those, so all the time he begins his personal war against individual citizens, various organizations, defiance of his own personal slogans, viewing people as electors only material to build the temple of his own ambitions. The 2004 presidential election cannot be the beginning of the new tragic history of Ukrainians, the service of foreign owners, and the division of the only nation. Civil society, the formation of the ideology of patriots and not patriots of their own and of their own. We must by no means leave the President's election, weakened in the quarks of opposition to the people, demoralized by political elites, in the fear of waiting for this to continue until 2006 elections to parliament. Democracy and its traditions, which are spoken of by all presidential candidates who are bound to act in accordance with its standards, offer Ukrainians programming values that give real hope and faith for Ukraine’s progress, a rich and free life for its citizens. We are destined to set ourselves a goal: an even greater consolidation of Ukrainians after October 31, 2004, an even more powerful integration around the modernized political reform of power, an even deeper mental bond around the country as ideas. We need a strong power, a single nation, an effective government. Without delay, for 2006, other years. Right now, those who are already referring to the crown of the Ukrainian President must assume this particular responsibility. Not an agreement on fair elections to make them methodically and consistently dishonest even now, but a clear political commitment backed up by concrete action should be a basic argument that the electorate will hear and support. In modern democracies, elections are always the way of democratic renewal of the power society. Most of Ukraine’s political forces want it, fight for it, fight for it. Socialists, communists, the political forces of the parliamentary coalition, the absolute majority of the presidential candidates and the forces that put them out, want political reform as the most effective way to develop national development, as a tool to renew the progress of every Ukrainian, is an honest and responsible program for the nation. For five years, she lives in Ukraine. She was offered political opposition as a protest against a system that has exhausted its historical resources. This one. supported by the Ukrainian President. This consensus was feared, for belief in a quick and even early victory began to wane. The sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine undoubtedly holds its history. Not only will it further reflect the political elites of Ukraine but it will deepen the conflict over power. It is also crucial for young Ukrainian parliamentaryism. We were always proud that the Ukrainian Parliament was speaking in the most difficult Ukrainian times as a fact of consolidation. We believed that, and we brought this faith to our electorate. We need to look for a dialogue. Ukraine. There's no alternative to that right now. Whoever wins, parliamentary democracy must save us the opportunity for tomorrow not only to look each other in the eye and shake hands, but also to get involved in the continuation of the national crisis. This is the position of common sense and the political essence of our mandate. So the parliamentary coalition, I conclude, calls upon all the political forces of Parliament, leaders, presidential candidates to make a political decision, to form an agreement between factions and parliamentary groups to refuse to use the parliamentary rostrum for political ambitions as a tool for electoral technologies, to collect personal accounts. We should not forget that it was Parliament that destroyed the Ukrainian statehood and the two Ukrainian presidents. We refer to those who have already planned scandals and provocations not to turn parliament into a political tribunal for opponents, but to the Rules for Legs because the devil does not sleep and wait for our disunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, this was a performance by groups and factions. And that's the law. I'd like you to pass the right to vote, so you don't have to yell. Dear colleagues, please. From the deputy group "Centre" Vladimir Sovkovic. Prepare Calinchuku from the National Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On behalf of the Center Group, I'd like to make a statement on illegal actions. but rather the criminal inaction of the law enforcement agencies investigating the attack on our group member Alexi Kozachenka. This attack took place on July 24 of this year. Colleagues. We all remember how law enforcement officials acted after this incident. They have been defiled by all the national MPs. Which is worth showing the company we're disarming. The list was allegedly removed from the weapons that the law enforcement authorities thought were meeting illegally with the deputies. It seems that there is no corruption or crime in Ukraine, nor is it clear who made the explosions. Because the entire law enforcement system has switched to the fight against the MPs that it's actually made by the deputy bandits. They've got it. I think so. There are no other priorities for today, and we all look at it calmly. Think like a General!Oh, my God! And the Odessa district attorney, without any evidence or expertise, actually accused our colleague of deliberately murdering him. The militiaman and the prosecutor were guided by the testimony, and you think, three times, a convicted, mentally ill person who, six months earlier, cut three throats and served only six months. After that, he was released. After conducting the investigation experiment, it became clear that all the claims were unproven!Oh, my God! and the procurator of Odessa. But no one apologized to the MP. Deputy, his reputation has been affected. In time, the Attorney - General’s Office has filed a case under the articles on bullying. What's going on? If an MP is attacked, the D.A. says it's hooliganism. And law enforcement. I'm not surprised to ask this question, because even a person without a higher legal education can understand that there's a chain between beating an assistant, where there were six fractures, beating an assistant Kozachenko, and then a deputy. Interestedly, if savage villains come to our hall, beat up one of the deputies, or come to the Attorney General's office and storm him, will the police reopen the case of bullying? Or maybe we should open the case under article 346, paragraph two, "Attacking a statesman." We, the members of the Centre Group, appreciate this attitude towards parliamentarians as provocation, especially criminal during the presidential elections. The Center Group calls for a criminal case based on the attack on Alexi Kozachenko under article 346 of Part Two, "Attacking a State Actor", and the promulgation of positions and the names of the candidates for the attack on the deputy and his assistant. We ask the support of the Head of the Supreme Council, all of you sitting in this room. If we ignore our demand, we leave the right to apply all parliamentary means of influence to the authorities in order to encourage them to respect the rights of citizens, including representatives of the legislative authority, that is, us with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u7	Thank you. Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk from the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u8	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! National MPs from the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine are extremely concerned about the social crisis in the village, which is increasing with each year. Since 1995, the construction of social infrastructure and housing facilities in the countryside has declined more than 10 times. The construction of roads with solid roofs has been halted, and more than a thousand schools, 620 preschools, and some 24,000 miles [24,000 km] of gas networks are under construction. Two thousand clubs, 470 schools, have been shut down because of the lack of funding. Water supplies and fuel supplies are particularly catastrophic. And this list of problems could continue. As a result, rural backlogs continue to increase, with basic living conditions for health, household, trade and transport services, education and culture. The unattractiveness and unattractiveness of the village make the village old. This process has taken on such a pace that if urgent action is not taken in the countryside in the near future, no one will be involved in agricultural production. Designed and approved by the decree of the President of Ukraine, "The State Program for the Development of the Social Sector of the Village until 2005" is not implemented because of the lack of funding. Ukraine's agrarian policy ministry is groundless -- I emphasize that -- has been removed from the implementation and monitoring of this program. Over the years, there has been a workable system of censusing social objects in the village, which is built on the State Budget’s expenditure and control of the targeted and efficient use of budgetary resources. In fact, there is no government structure in the central executive branch responsible for the implementation of the programme, which makes it impossible to follow up on the implementation of the National Rural Social Development Programme 2006-2011. Ukraine’s proposals for the distribution of funds for rural social development are not always in line with the regional rural development programmes at the expense of government funds. There are very limited expenditures from local budgets. The end of 1999 of compensation to the self - management entities involved in the construction of the village’s social facilities, provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Priority of Social Development of Ukraine’s Agricultural Complex, led to the reluctance of agricultural producers to invest in the development of rural areas. Only the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic has begun to channel funds for the construction of socio-cultural objects in the village over the past two years. But let's face it, 30 percent of the total capital doesn't solve the problem. On 26 August this year, at a meeting of the Advisory Council on Local Self-Government at the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of financial security for the development of the agricultural sector and the social sphere of the village was discussed in 2005. The decision recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provide for at least 1 per cent of the government's GDP in the 2005 budget for the development of the social sphere of rural areas. To predict a step-by-step compensation for self-sustainment subjects for the construction of sociocultural objects. At the same time, 600 million dollars are allocated to the construction and reconstruction of the village’s social facilities and a number of other activities. The faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, in support of the Advisory Council's decision, refers to the government of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the local self-government authorities with the aim of renovating the village for the next year, not to declare, but to take real steps towards the development of the social sphere of rural areas in all directions envisaged by the developed and approved programmes, primarily through the formation of the state budget and budgets of all levels for 2005. Restoring trust and respect for peasants, a careful and balanced view of their fate, living and working conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Stanislaw Nikolainko of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has his word. Prepare Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear, the entire Ukrainian community! The Supreme Council is starting its work under extraordinary conditions. The citizens of Ukraine are impressed by the terrible terrorist attacks in Russia, and the socialists are deeply saddened by the innocent victims. But these events are now being used in Ukraine as an additional impetus to the expectation of conflict, especially after our head of state announced the president's next election by choosing dirty technologies, in fact giving the technology green light. Socialists, all people do not want this development imposed by the regime of the presidential campaign. The government understands that transparent elections don't guarantee her any chance. Desperately hungry, despised people cross a line beyond which fear no longer works, as it did, such as by starving teachers in Alexandria in the Kirovograd region. According to reliable information, a plan of three major options has already been developed in the Bank. The first is how to ensure that the successful candidate wins a false victory, the second is how to keep the election campaign invalid with the next election in Kuchma again, and the third is how to provoke the reasons for the state of emergency in Ukraine. It seems that the third option is the most favoured by the administrations of the centre in both places and personally by the President. Such situations for the fate of Ukraine, the state, its people are all responsible here, in the hall -- both left and right. The only way to do this is to deal with the situation under control by honestly solving the problems of society’s peers by making decisions and making decisions. The Supreme Council should take a principled position here. What should we do? First of all, the term of office of the President-in-Office ends. In fact, he should report for his 11 years of government rule alone, including the Prime Minister. The president has to say how many millions of people and why the population of Ukraine have been reduced, how he has overcome corruption, and he has promised in three months to do so, where he has gone and how he has privatized Black Sea steaming, industrial giants, oil-processing enterprises, archer and the whole economy. Let him know what's going on with the village, and now the Agrarian Party is talking about it, and who's to blame here. Let me tell you how much land is not being processed today, how much it has already been sold in the thugs, how it was able to destroy the agrarian complex that is being made with bread today, when it's being collected into peasants for nothing, what ended this trusty theft, why vector-based foreign policy has led to the isolation of Ukraine. People are curious to know when they will receive the constitutionally guaranteed free right to education, to treatment, and why there are little pensions, why there is no return on investment, and so forth. These and many other questions must be answered. Alexander Frost, the socialists believe it is necessary to establish a tradition for each elected president to examine at the outset what he has adopted, and eventually, after the end of the term, he will report what he has done. If he has not fulfilled his obligations, he must answer and be on the regular pension of a rural pensioner rather than receive any benefits. Next. We have to do everything we can to correct the adventurous decisions that are strategically relevant to the fate of our nation. First of all, it's about overcoming the veto on the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Earth Code. As a result of the use of this Codex, Ukraine will lose its riches for several years, and it will no longer be a state. Because for the sake of the earth, we still have some weight in the world. If we lose the land, Ukraine won't. All factions need to unite and overcome the veto. We also need to consider the price of bread, the enormous adventure that is made around the bread. The same applies to the veto for amendments to the Education Act. We need to overcome the veto and repay the debts to the teachers. Socialists demand to hear the session report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the murder of George Gongadze. September 16th, at 7 p.m. in the central square of Kiev’s Maidani Independence, there will be a tumultuous rally dedicated to the tragic death of Georgia Gongadze. [[on September 19th, 16th]] We insist on addressing these issues. Alexander Moroz, socialists strongly oppose the involvement of Ukrainians in a foreign war in Iraq, against the threat of terrorist attacks in Ukraine. The decision to return from Iraq to the Ukrainian contingent must be made immediately. What matters to Ukraine's fate is not only who will be elected by the new President, but also the position of Parliament, its factions, is important. They're close.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u11	Yes, thank you. Victor Pinzenik has a word from the faction of Ukraine. Prepare Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u12	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, the Supreme Council cannot be a house from the land. There is a conflict in the country that will determine the fate of each individual, every political force, and the entire state. Its reasons are not election, it's not the personality of the candidates, it's the reason for the opposition of power and of the people, and there can be no outsiders. Not to be overlooked is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The people want change, they want respect for human dignity, prosperity, and justice. People hope to do this in a constitutional way, in elections in peace, without crises and shocks. But the will of the people is opposed by present - day authority. Day and night, television and the press are spreading lies and intimidating voters, and the entire media space has turned into one running board. For the smallest word of truth, newspapers are closed and channels are turned off. Fascist symbolism, the inflaming of national conflicts, has become part of the provocation of today’s power, but this will not help. The citizens of Ukraine want today’s authorities to go back in time and no one will be able to stop the will of their own people who want to change. The government in Ukraine has lost its sense of reality. During the meetings of our deputies, hundreds of thousands of people say one thing: We want honest elections, we come to the polls, and the voters vote as they say they will, and they will win. We also know that in power structures, in other authorities, there were no decent people, decent professionals who would work for peace and quiet. They will remember their responsibility and go along with their people. We also want to assure everyone that there are enough observers on the committees of the responsible people. There'll be a parallel calculation, every vote will be counted, real results will be published immediately, no counterfeiting will take place. Today, the Supreme Council should be on one side, one side, on the other side of its people. The best pages in the history of our parliamentary system were written when Parliament expressed its national will. The worst when she wasn't manipulated. This election room should become the center of stability in the state. The Supreme Council must immediately take a number of steps. First and foremost. We need to consider without delay those bills that aim at increasing people's wealth and combating poverty. We've already forced the government to return some of the hidden funds to the budget. But the spread of national wealth in clan pockets continues. The economy increased by 13.5 percent in six months. And a lot of society doesn't feel that way. What is the economic miracle of this regime? The government secretly divides its billions of dollars from privatization, and at that time, people have nothing to raise a child to school for. Victor Yushchenka’s block believes that it is necessary to raise the minimum wage to 260 dollars this year. By January it should be raised to 300 dollars, and by June 2005 it should be raised to a minimum of living. Reimbursements for depreciated savings should already be increased by 6 times this year. Debts should be repaid to teachers under article 57 of the Education Act. This is all for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide for in the budget laws. The other one. The Supreme Council is to defend the people's will, to be a guarantor of the Constitution for this: to stop immediately the insolent pressure of individual electoral officials, to end the dungeons, to ensure equal access for candidates to the media. Third. The Supreme Council is to restore the authority of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, which has been deliberately discredited by the authorities for 10 years. Parliament’s word should become important in the most important issues of internal and external politics. We have to do everything we can not to allow the power scenario to block Parliament's work. Ladies and gentlemen, a new parliamentary majority will be established in this room in a few months. The faction of Victor Yushchenka’s bloc is convinced that the new majority will unite most of the deputies present in this Chamber. All who are willing to work for the people for the prosperity of the state. We call upon all of you, honourable national deputies, to work for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u13	Alexander Turchinov, from the Julia Timoshenko block, is invited to the performance. Get ready right away from the Union MP group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, it so happens that with the start of our session, the President's election campaign has reached its climax and entered the final stage. At the same time, the current authorities crossed every line and burned all the bridges that were still a little bit linked to legality and legitimacy yesterday. Total violations, tremendous administrative pressure, blackmail and provocations are taking place all over Ukraine, in all areas and regions. Instead of making responsible decisions, Kuchma intimidates the country with the illusions of civil war. As was particularly the case yesterday during his performance in Crimea. At the same time, provocations and crimes have become the only form of the existence of a valid Ukrainian authority. This applies both to the explosions that occurred in the Trinity and to the actions of the rowed provocateurs who are preparing for power tomorrow. And tomorrow, all those who want to see the fascist face of the bankers will be able to see it. Despite the brutal conduct of power, the disregard for the Constitution and electoral legislation, the "Power of the People" coalition, which included the "Our Ukraine" bloc and the "Julia Timoshenko" bloc, will be able to choose victory and cleanse Ukraine from dirt. We will be able to have a powerful free and democratic country, which will be headed by the People's President. But today, I want to draw your attention, my fellow dignitaries, to the situation that has taken place on the Matter, where, thanks to Governor Scherbania, the area has turned into a mirror of a regime that can be controlled and sometimes surpassed it. At the end of August, a real explosive situation arose in the area. The local authorities had previously agreed that the people were on the verge of rebelling against the administrative and criminal authorities and their own governor. People are trying to get rid of the tyranny of the Kutsma exhibitor, take the yoke of the croissant off their shoulders. Every week, thousands of protests are being held throughout the region, and the situation is threatening to get out of control. It was during this period of Kuchma’s appointment that the head of the administration was transformed yesterday into a reserve of statelessness, irresponsibility, volunteerism, shadow economy, and openly gangdish methods of government. In the area, all the representative institutions of national authority are completely discredited, and a bunch of criminal clans decide. The bulk of the days of Sherban became a demonstration of what poverty and social disasters can lead Ukraine and its people under the leadership of the powerful. The standard of living of ordinary people is one of the lowest in the country. This, by the way, does not bother the local authorities. The summer march of students torn down by an irresponsible and illegal decision of effective authority, which so frightened both Sum and Kiev officials, only the beginning of a national protest. Tomorrow, the entire population of an area that can no longer tolerate abuse may come out. The authorities in charge of Kuchma are well aware of the lawlessness that is taking place in this region. However, he continues to hold the governor in office as guarantor of the total falsification of the President's election in October-November 2004. However, I am convinced that the population of the area will not tolerate experiments on itself and will say its word long before October 31st. In order not to allow uncontrolled demonstrations of national protest, to bring social and political stability back to the region, it is necessary to immediately release Shrebban from the post of head of the government, otherwise he will be thrown out of there by the people themselves. I want to warn my fellow MPs: the people in Suma are today driven to despair and ready to take active direct action actions. It is the Supreme Council that is obliged not to allow for the most radical development in Suma. To this end, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko proposes to the Supreme Council: to immediately create a temporary investigation commission to investigate the situation in the area and to immediately release Vladimir Szczerban from office as head of the district administration of the Suma region. The decision to create this commission was passed by our faction to the Supreme Council, and we, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, honorary colleagues, demand that we immediately consider and accept this decision. I'm sure we're supported by the faction of our Ukraine, socialists and communists, as well as all the deputies who have dignity and responsibility. The time has come, fellow dignitaries, for the Supreme Council to direct order in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u15	Basil Nadrag of the MP's Union, please. Prepare Peter Simonck of the Communist Party. From the Communist Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u16	Vassili Nadraga, MP “Soyuz”, Lugansk Region. Respectable colleagues and respected listeners and TV viewers! Allow me, on behalf of the Union MP, to express my condolences to the people of Russia on the recent outbreak of terrorism and the hundreds of human casualties they have suffered. Life shows that, sadly, the world does not always change for the better. And the fact that today, unfortunately, this topic does not sound very good in this room also gives rise to confusion. I must say that the clearly unfolding electoral commission is increasingly taking over the many different aspects of the public life of our society. But I want to say, and this confirms my experience with my constituents, unfortunately, it doesn't concern our people. Our people are more concerned with the problems of another order. They are interested in the wages and pensions received, their size, the warmth of the houses, the cheap bread in shops and everything that constitutes the urgent needs of the ordinary, simple citizen of our State. And when we try to pull each other out of the presidential election today, we need to be clear with you that this is what concerns us and not all of us. And people are thinking about someone else. It hopes that we will make the decisions they need today. Let me give you some examples. Working in the district and meeting with my constituents, I faced a situation that they were clearly concerned about in the presidential elections. But once again, that's not the point. For example, the Colonel of the Reserve, the resident of Luhansk, the veteran of the Armed Forces, Yakud Grigori Pavlović, and the Major of the Kopil's Stocks, Grigori Pavlović, as well as other military pensioners of today, are outraged by the imbalance in the pensions of the troops who have retired before and after the year 2000. They cannot help but be disturbed by the fact that a flag that had been dismissed since 2000 receives more than a colonel who has served almost all his life in the Soviet Army. While the Government is taking some steps in this direction, it is a topic. which must be decided today and now, and here, because today and now we must form a budget with you. And in this budget, we must invest the money that will enable military pensioners, regardless of their retirement, to receive a well-deserved and adequate pension. I have to tell you that there are problems that concern veterans. This is, of course, a material security issue, a medical one. But there are also things in which we can take concrete steps without great investment. My communication with the veteran organization of the city of Lugansk, led by President Alexei Maksimović Tarapat, is quite understandable and yet a long-standing problem: why is today the Great Homeland War in the textbooks of the growing generation reflecting everything but the objective picture that existed, why have our television screens filled out movies that promote violence, why is this artemitic veteran organization now asking the question, then the Verkhovna Rada does not improve the law on the status of veterans of the Great Homeland War and the guarantee of their social protection? I think they are absolutely right, that these things must be done as quickly as any other, because they are not far behind the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory, and in addition to the preparation of the celebrations, we need to adopt with you a number of bills aimed at the social protection of war veterans. Our voters today are concerned about wages and the relationship between employees and business management, not dependent on the form of ownership, but the issue is, therefore, that we should adopt the Labour Code in the end, where the interests of not only the worker and not only the entrepreneur are protected, but in general all those who are employed, and therefore not in the principle of “I have paid you and do not cling to me” but in principle that a person should receive adequate remuneration for his or her work. Pension issues remain acute. And so far, in this room, we need to understand that today, the issue of pensions, the addition and modification of the pension system for budget workers, namely, teachers, doctors, cultural workers, sports, this is our responsibility with you, no matter whose task it is, it is our responsibility with you. Therefore, from the foregoing, I can only say one thing: politics, but voters say another. As long as we are engaged in naked politics, unfortunately, we are members of our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u17	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is invited to speak from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The impact of the election process and the election of the President on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council and the consequences of this influence have already been mentioned. The course of the political struggle confirms cruelty, confirms the earlier claim that it will be a dirty political struggle, which is already cynical in relation to our people. This political struggle is taking place between criminal capital and its own people. And the technology that's chosen to trick people once again is technology to support criminal capital in power. Two oligarchic groups not only divided our property and power in Ukraine, they divided Ukraine as the territory of the state in half, they divided the people of Ukraine in half. And this fight follows the pattern: some are like oligarchs in power and bad, and others are like oligars in opposition and beautiful. I'd like to recommend who's coming out of this rostrum and talking about the beats of our people, to mention who destroyed the economy in 1993 because of the inflation of 10.5%, and who started the trust companies that were companies, looting and robbing their own people. Here I would like to remind these honourable masters of the crimes committed during the years of independence against our people. That's why this political struggle is cynical, because it's built on a lie by the oligarchs, it's built on the fact that two oligarchic clans share power among themselves. As they say, the ladies will struggle, and the roofs will break. The economic crisis is threatening today, and life as a single person is virtually at risk today. What we propose today is for the Supreme Council to promote order in our country. We Communists propose to conduct an inventory of property on the basis of laws. The person who has fulfilled the privatisation obligations, please work. But those who have failed to fulfill their privatisation obligations must, through the Supreme Council, regain ownership of the people of Ukraine and the State. These are mines, metallurgical plants, archetypes, chemical enterprises, this is a machine-building complex. That should be the economic basis for our independence. And those who spoke to me started the privatization process, which led to the theft of 600 billion pieces of property from the people, and only 8.7. That is why we today propose to pursue a policy of protecting people’s interests. And the second problem. This is a problem of our people’s support and, above all, a solution to food security. The problem is complex and difficult today. We have to be honest with the people that this year 40 percent of the harvest is gone. And the one who traveled through Ukraine saw that the harvest was not yet over. [[Today we have September 8th.]] September 20th should have been sown, but that was not done. What should we do? We insist and propose the law to set a loan today for peasants 3-5 percent to give circulation and support to our peasants. Today, the government is obliged to buy at least 50% of the grain grown in the village to save and save the peasants from the grain - bearing lands that are already buying 350 - 400 dollars per tonne of grain and selling 1,000 - to 200 dollars for bread processing. Next, implement the Rural Engineering Support Act and direct money to supply combiners, tractors and rural equipment, decide to ban the export of grain from Ukraine today, because some have already set up, as the trains say, to target the Hersons and Odessa ports to re-export the grain, without grain, the balance of the grain in Ukraine. And the suggestion is that we don't want to talk today about the social bread that some of the national MPs are trying to set up for the people of Ukraine. The point is, for the rich, good bread, and for the poor, we will bake. So we're Communists, we're offering: for the surprise that today we've gathered about 35 million statements, based on the calculations that: the need today to support our veterans is primarily to allocate the same billion, one and a half billion dollars to give our pensioners a completely free grain and free bread. Then it will be real support to help our peasants solve the problem, not only for the villagers but also for the citizens to resolve the problem of the welfare of the real family. We propose real politics, we propose today to direct the efforts of the Supreme Council to protect the interests of the individual, to improve legislation, and to stop the looting of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, statements by MPs and factions have been completed, and the information committee head Valentin Grigorovich Matviyev has the floor to organize the work of the Supreme Council and the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, what made me ask the chairman to give the floor? Yesterday was the opening of today’s sixth session of the Supreme Council. The first plenary session was held. Today's the second day of work. Representatives of virtually all MP factions and groups spoke. They talked about different problems, they exchanged sharp mutuals, I'd say, and political reprimands like that. Sadly, though, none of the colleagues have ever pointed out whether or not anyone has noticed that we are working with you in very different circumstances, even at the end of the last fifth session. And it became possible first of all, thanks to this, because I saw this practical every day, thanks to the tremendous efforts of the Supreme Council's staff, the Office of Affairs, its organization and departments, other organizations involved in this work. They're less than two months from now, think about less than two months from now, they've done this huge amount of reconstruction work, restoration work, the current renovation of the Supreme Council premises, especially the Halls, this plenary hall. And certainly the entry into service of a house on 3rd Garden Street. So today, on behalf of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think you will support us in this, we should and do this, we express our sincere thanks for the great quality of the work done to all those who have been involved in this important matter. And the leadership of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we would ask and, I think, will be the support of the honourable colleagues, to celebrate absolutely as well all those who organized and directly carried out such important work. Thanks to them are great and respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Yes. of procedure or of what reasons? Viacheslav Kirilenko microphone, faction of our Ukraine. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u22	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform you of an unprecedented event that took place on August 6th, which has a very direct impact on each and every one of us, especially in view of the electoral company. On August 6, an unprecedented incident occurred in the history of an independent Ukraine when a member of the Supreme Council was detained, regardless of the repeated presentation of the licence. This took place at the direct hand of the Governor of the Suma District of Szczerbany, who apparently carried out Prime Minister Janukovich's order. This happened along with the beating of dozens of students who walked peacefully from Sum to Kiev and were beaten by city council deputies, district councils, and the parents of students. Previously, in the sums themselves, on August 1, the police repeatedly applied force to students and their parents. Before that, these same forces spilled the toxic substance creosone as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u23	Dear colleagues. Well, 30 seconds, please finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u24	The militia has repeatedly used toxic substances against students. I turned to Attorney General Vasiliev and the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania to protect their rights and the rights of those who have suffered. I want to inform the MPs and all the voters that the Attorney General's Office at all, regardless of the August 8 appeal I made to her, did not give any answer, and the police gave no reply on August 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u25	Please. Honorable colleagues. I'm asking the Standing Committee now. Well, please. Please, the Regulatory Committee on this subject, study the subject and consider it. For my part, I made appropriate calls to the law enforcement agencies, and I received an answer to a well - known national MP. Obviously, we need to study more closely. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, he said, dear colleagues, now others will say. One minute, calm down. Please. Well, please come back, 30 seconds. Please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I protest because this applies to all those who in one way or another protect the rights of ordinary people. Any one of us can be detained, and then four hours later, we'll be told in the police, in the CPD, which turns out you haven't presented a certificate. I want to say that we have a film that states that all the Supreme and City Council deputies have repeatedly presented a certificate, and the police have replied that "we have not seen any certificates, and that is why there are no claims." This cannot continue, and this applies to everyone, not only "Our Ukraine", but also to socialists, communists and all those who oppose this power, which is unjust, authoritarian and undemocratic, led by Prime Minister Janukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u27	I ask the Head of the Rules of Procedure to raise these questions once again, to make appropriate inquiries, to consider this subject, our colleague's statement, and to accept appropriate recommendations so that the Supreme Council can respond. I also ask the secretariat to prepare a necessary commission for proposals made by representatives of MPs and factions. A draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention, No. 81 of 1947 on the Inspection of Industrial Work and Trade, is under consideration. Reporter, Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mikhailo Papiev Stanislaw Staszewski, chairman of the committee, will be the narrator. Please, very briefly. Please, please, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The adoption of the Act will enable Ukraine to accede to the International Labour Organization Convention No. 81 and to demonstrate its willingness to adhere to international standards in the activities of bodies that exercise State oversight and control over compliance with labour legislation. The provisions of the convention are now laid down in the seventh book of the draft Ukrainian Labour Code: "State oversight and monitoring of labour law enforcement." The ratification of this convention will expand the legislative field that regulates the activities of executive bodies that exercise State oversight and control over compliance with labour legislation. The situation of this convention, they are already set out in legislation in Ukraine, and they are being followed throughout Ukraine by national legislation. The activities of the authorities responsible for State oversight are regulated today by the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Code of Laws of Ukraine, the Law on Labour Protection and other special legislative and regulatory acts. Ukraine's accession to the aforementioned convention will not entail any negative political, economic, legal and financial consequences. The political effect of this bill will be to increase the international authority of the state. In reference to me, the Ukrainian National Deputies asked: Is it not the creation of a new government body? I'm telling you, we have the State Department in place today to monitor compliance with legislation on the work that was created in 2000. With the adoption of this law, no one will be increased according to the size of the individual or in some way changed the principle of the work of this State body. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u29	Yes, thank you. Questions? Just a minute. Please sign up for a question, three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Matthewov will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u30	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. Minister! The convention was signed or adopted in 1947. Your statement did not say why Ukraine had not yet ratified this decision. That's the first question. The second question. You think, after analyzing the text of the Convention, how many years did Ukraine stay away from international co-operation and how in the sense of this Convention all those incidents that took place on the mines are being considered, and we've seen that even what happened to human woes on the mines turned into a propaganda show by one candidate from the power of Januković. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u31	Thank you. I would ask you not to confuse two structures. We have a state-owned committee and we have the Department of State Department of Labour Enforcement. That's two different people. Two different structures and functionally they're different. The State Department of Labour Supervision controls the implementation of legislation on work, i.e. the timeliness of payment of wages, the timeliness of paying off arrears on wages, the timely granting of vacations, hospitals, and many other issues related to the work itself. Why is Ukraine only now joining this convention? Because we created the State Labour Inspectorate in 1996, and the State Department was created only in 2000. In addition, you know that according to the General Agreement, the government submits such documents to the Supreme Council of Ukraine only after agreement has been reached by the trade unions and the all - Ukrainian employers’ organizations. It is precisely this process of acceptance of trade unions and employers that has taken enough time, and today we are introducing this law for ratification to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u32	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u33	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich, I've approached you, and here's what I'm going to say was a matter of concern. Why? Because the rules that are now enshrined in the Conventions cannot really be ignored, let us put it this way, double treatment. First. The number of verifiers is sufficient for these checks to be carried out. Second. Provision of vehicles, premises there and so on. Periodicity. At any time, access to any premises without restrictions. How often, how often does it take "responsibly" to make it sound like it's enough to check? I mean. What am I talking about? All these rules must be clearly regulated by the laws in force to date, and they must be clearly stated between the employer, the trade union, and the structures of the laws in force to date. Therefore, ratification of the convention is necessary, but we must also look at such that we do not actually miss the inspection structures here, because for any employer, you know, the most painful subject where such checks are withdrawn and are not allowed to work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u34	Thank you. I'll let you know. We have 914 government labour inspectors in Ukraine, 20 of them working in the central apparatus. The adoption of this convention will not increase the apparatus, extend its mandate, or increase the administrative fines that these State labour inspectors have to impose. Today, all these issues settled by Ukrainian legislation, the adoption of this convention will enhance Ukraine’s international authority. So we can clearly and clearly say that Ukraine has not just adopted its legislative field, but that it is a legislative field that operates in Ukraine that meets international standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u35	Yes, thank you, Mikhail Mikolaiovich, please sit down. Mr. Stanislaw Telisforovich, Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, concluded a committee on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention was discussed at a committee meeting and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council. The convention was adopted, as is known, on July 11, 1947, at the 13th session of the General Conference of the International Labour Organization, and today 130 countries of the world have joined it. The ratification of the convention will expand the legislative field that regulates the activities of executive bodies that exercise State oversight and control over compliance with labour legislation. Adherence to the Convention does not provide for additional financial costs from the State budget. The Convention does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, nor does its implementation require the adoption of new laws or changes to existing legislation. Therefore, on the basis of the scientific findings of the Scientific Chief Executive, the Committees on Social Policy and Work, Industrial Policy and Enterprise, and Economic Policy, the Management of People's Households, Property and Investments, they approved recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u37	Yes, thank you, Stanislav Telisforovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this document? Got it. Well, let's exchange in 10 minutes. Anatoly Frost faction of Communists, prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u38	Anatoly Moroz, constituency No. 83, district of Zaporez, faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Government, honourable Chief, I think I will not be mistaken if I say that the Supreme Council supports the government today and ratifys the International Labour Organization Convention on the Inspection of Industry and Trade. Well, first of all, it obliges us, our government, our officials, not only to engage in a chat about what we want to do in a European home, but it also shows Ukraine's willingness to abide by international standards in the activities of the authorities that oversee and monitor compliance with labour legislation. It will also oblige Ukraine to bring this problem to order in our own home. I think everyone sitting in this room can give you tens, hundreds, or thousands of examples of violations of labour legislation, and there are a lot of examples of them when they're inspecting, checking, and the order of this problem in our country is never mentioned. Let us take the matter as an admission to work; when a citizen writes an application, he writes an application for admission and release without a date. And then, when an employee, say or the same employer, needs to be freed, he puts only a date and the employee is released, so to speak, at his own request. With regard to wages, many examples can also be cited. Let's say industry, let's take mining, mining, mining, as much as it says about paying off the debt on the payroll of promises more than the debt itself: from the President, from the Government, from all branches of power, and today from all the candidates for the presidency, but it's all done like in an anecdotes, where the disgruntled master says to his subordinates, "I've always been the master of my word. That's why I gave it, and I'll take it." That's what we're doing today. In the engine industry. I've made several appearances from this rostrum, the city of Southdendieselmash. A restricted area. No salary is paid for years. People are rallying literally at the end of that month to pay their wages. Nobody needs anything. The matter reached the President himself, but the fate of this company, a unique machine industry, is, unfortunately, still hanging in the air. Salaries are not paid. In trade, I think there are no less unresolved issues. For example, I would really like to go back to. a construction plant, and this is an example. The work-related disability of this company is addressed to me, Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic, as Prime Minister, asking for the Social Insurance Fund, which Viktor Fedorovich, through the voluntary method of shaping and approving Ukraine's 2003-2004 budget, has committed to paying off the debt of coal companies for compensation for work disability on the basis of social insurance by his voluntary method. And about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u39	Michaela Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u40	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The draft law foresees Ukraine’s obligation to comply with the requirements of State oversight and to monitor compliance with labour legislation. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz, has repeatedly been proposed to strengthen enforcement of labour legislation. Perhaps this step that Parliament will take today is the strengthening stimulus that will enable us in the framework of, we will talk, the European Community to control those issues that are not yet under the control of the State today, we will speak with imperfect control of the state in our country. But we clearly understand that the basic tasks and functions of the work inspection system are defined here. Do they work in all our businesses? Yes, today there are my fellow MPs who have a bearing on the leadership of Ukraine's large-scale enterprises. This does not apply to them. What we're talking about today is that there are still a lot of disgruntled leaders who, we're going to talk about, a wave of privatization, acceptances that have come to the forefront of powerful businesses that have no experience and have no experience today, because apart from their own office and reception secretary, they don't see anything, they don't see in production, they don't practically, they don't. People work in some businesses for 10-12 hours, and try to say something! Where are the unions? I mean, the union, at all. The head of the Ukrainian trade union today, he is likely to head his own office and his own, be taken, by his own staff, and have no bearing today on the protection of human rights. I'd like to make that point. Let's actually, if we're speaking, say a specific example from the region. I spoke yesterday, the Mamaliski Hips factory, the head of Kronszewski releases the economist from work just because her husband -- the head of the village council -- did not do as he wanted. He says, "I don't trust you." District Attorney's Office, district-- who's gonna protect this guy? Today, as none of the tasks they perform in the field of work control, the public authorities should react that the manager who took the government's package of shares today does what he wants with a person: you don't fit me and get out of work. I would like to turn to the honourable Michael Mikolaiovich to strengthen his control over these matters. And I suggest you ratify the treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u41	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u42	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! During the socialist period, there was no need to enact laws because the social protection of the population in our country was the best in the world, and this has been recognized by the United Nations. At present, as a result of the return of capitalism as a result of the authorities'claim to oligarchs, i.e. large capitalists, workers are virtually incapacitated. If before the socialist period of an employee, it was difficult for the head of an enterprise to fire, it is now very easy to fire an employee because all power, political power, is in the hands of legally large capitalists. And it doesn't matter what clan they're referring to, whether it's a clan that's in full power now, it's a clan that's partially lost power and wants to gain absolute power in the future that we'll look at. Of course, the bill is necessary, but let's see if, once the law is passed, I am convinced that, like all laws in the interests of workers, these laws are not being implemented and this law will not be fully implemented because they dominate the interests of large capital. In order to comply with the laws and the law, it is necessary to ensure that power is transferred to the hands of a firm supporter of socialism. This is the case with all 26 candidates for Presidential office, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko. He has consistently fought for the interests of the workers of all previous years, and this can be observed at least for the adoption of a budget, by pension law, in a single economic space. The only candidate for the Presidents, it was Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko who voted in favour of these laws in accordance with the interests of the people. For a single economic space, against the robbery Gosbudget, against the grabby pension law, which only enriches the same oligarchs. Pay attention to the grave danger posed by respectable compatriots. Now the oligarchs have chosen, well, they think, a win-win tactic: they have made a bet on two of their candidates. And they tell the media that there are only two real candidates, and the others can be ignored. What's the point? The objective of course is clear: not to miss Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, who is indeed a firm, consistent advocate for the interests of the people, the interests of the workers. But I don't think the people should be allowed to fool themselves again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone, please. Just a minute left. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u44	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye city, the MP's faction of Trudova Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to withdraw in my brief statement the warnings of industrialists and entrepreneurs against this bill. The point is that, in the context of the transformation of our society in market principles, our email, the postal of the Ukrainian national MPs, first of all, is filled with reports of human rights violations, that is, violations of the norms and rules -- the basis of any society's activity -- in the field of labour. The point is that we have structures, no one is going to increase them. This is about improving the human protection system itself. Let me give you an example. We have many cases today where a man, a hired worker, works without a workbook, without social funds. Imagine the future for this worker when he retires. Since the ratification of the convention is important to us, as for other Post - Soviet republics, it is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 81 of 1947 on the Inspection of Industrial Work and Trade has been completed. No warning? That's why I'm voting on the committee's proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the International Trade Organization Convention No. 81 of 1947 on the Inspection of Industrial Work and Trade. Registration number 0167. Please vote. [[11:25:07]] For 400. Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of the 1969 International Labour Organization Convention on the inspection of agricultural work is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Papiev. Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Please, Michael Mikolaiovich. Prepare Staszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I thank you for voting so hard for the ratification of Convention No. 81. It refers to inspection of work in industry and trade. This convention, which is now under your consideration, is the 129th Convention on Agricultural Labour Inspection. And with the opportunity, I would like to stress again. Dear colleagues, the State Labour Inspectorate is the very structure that oversees the implementation of legislation on work in all enterprises, institutions and organizations, regardless of the form of ownership. In addition, I have a huge request to the national deputies of Ukraine. Now in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working on a second reading. preparing for second reading the draft Ukrainian Labour Code. The book 7 refers to the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens with regard to the enforcement of labour legislation and the inspection of work. I would ask you to join in working out this very important bill, and I am convinced that -- and once again, I stress this -- ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention, you know, it's about 170 countries in the world, it will further strengthen Ukraine's international authority. I ask you to uphold this law and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for questions? Well, there's a need. One minute, I can't. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry. Sign up for questions. Put your name on the board. Yuri Carmazin, please. Three minutes for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency. Dear Mr. Minister! That's my question. How much will it cost to introduce this law? I ask this through the text of the convention itself, particularly through article 8, which says that staff will be civil servants, make them independent, such conditions of employment that make them independent of any changes in government or any undesirable external influence. That means a normal salary. Article 15 speaks of transporting the means to carry out their duties. And article 20, that's another question, predicts the confidentiality of the complaint brought to their knowledge. Do you see any contradictions here when they say that you do not tell anyone what complaint you are facing if you have to carry out legislation and stop these violations? These are two questions I have for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u49	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that all the principles set out in this convention are contained in the national legislation of Ukraine today. As for the number of employees, I have already said, 914 inspectors working in Ukraine today covering the entire territory of Ukraine and the city, the cities of regional importance, the district importance, the settlements and all businesses operating in Ukraine. I'd like to give you these numbers. During the first half of the year, these inspectors carried out 21,000 tests covering 16,000 Ukrainian businesses, consisting of 7 thousand 600 protocols, imposing administrative fines on 11,000,400 officials who did not carry out the labour legislation. There is a question of salary, because today we need to raise wages not only for labour inspectors, but for all working citizens of Ukraine, government officials, budget workers. The government is working on it. I think we'll sort this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u50	Jaroslav Suhi, "Trudova Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye city, the MP's faction of Trudova Ukraine. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, the faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine" considered and considered the task of protecting people in all spheres of the national economy. With regard to the ratification of this Convention, I have a specific question for you. Please tell us whether this Convention is foreshadowed, which we should necessarily ratify, is the cooperation between agricultural inspection services and government services and public authorities, or recognized. I mean, is it going to be about whether, in the future, we're going to improve not the structure, but the human protection system itself, in a particular field, a very important field for our agriculture, in agriculture?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u52	Thank you. This is a very important question. I would like to point out that today we cannot place full responsibility for the enforcement of labour laws solely on the State Labour Inspectorate. Please read the laws of Ukraine regarding professional associations and their unification. That is, the issue of protecting the legitimate interests of citizens lies not only in the state but also in the community of citizens, such as professional associations. And the law provides that professional associations have the right to verify compliance with legislation on work. If you even take and do an analogy of imposing administrative fines, then the state inspector of work is the maximum that he can impose is 800 fines and so on, according to the court's decision. And professional unions for failure to implement a collective agreement can attract managers to administrative responsibility, and it is almost twice the size of 1,700 bracelets. I think we need to improve this work by combining the work of state labour inspectors and trade union activists and trade union activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u53	Yes. Thank you, Mikhail Mikolaiovich, sit down. Stanislaw Telisforovich Staszewski of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, head of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u54	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the project that was introduced at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Foreign Affairs Committee would like to point out that this convention was adopted in the 63rd year, which is now joined by 41 countries. The ratification of the Convention will expand the legislative field that regulates the activities of executive bodies that exercise State oversight and control over the observance of agricultural legislation and will significantly increase the responsibility of employers to respect the labour rights of employed workers. The implementation of this Convention is Yuri Anatoliyovich does not need additional financial costs. Our current legislation that does not change today, the main scientific and export administration, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, social policy and work support the ratification of this Convention, our Committee also asks the Supreme Council to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u55	Thank you, Stanislav Tellisforovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? So let's think about it briefly for 10 minutes. On the board are the names of the national deputies for the talks. Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u56	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. Honorable presiding, respected members of the government. Today we are really discussing a number of issues, and the last question, and this question, I think, is related to the problems that are urgent in Ukraine today, which need to be addressed. I think that when we consider this Ukrainian Law on Ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the International Labour Organization Convention on Inspection of Agricultural Work, we will definitely accept, ratify today. This will not harm our nation or our people. Joining this convention is urgent because, as they say today, we do not have an assembly. Although the government's information tells us that the convention is in place in Ukraine, I would say, and in the previous speech, I think that my colleagues will also give examples of what can be said, what is very much, and most of all we don't follow the national legislation of these problems. The activities of the authorities that exercise State oversight and control over the enforcement of labour legislation are regulated by the Ukrainian Labour Code, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Ukrainian Law on Labour Protection and other special legislative acts. But as I said before, it's just saying, and in fact, when we work in the districts, we meet with voters with dozens, hundreds of examples of violations of this legislation. And so I want to draw your attention to a number of issues that concern the multiplicity of unemployed Ukrainian citizens, who are used as cheap hired force abroad, who are protected by the laws of Ukraine and the laws of that country, where they are forced to sell their labour illegally to earn bread for themselves and their family. These illegal workers are not socially protected, but they need to take care of their citizens abroad not only when they need to take part in the election of the President of Ukraine but also to work on a simplified system of document editing for the temporary departure of Ukrainian citizens to other states. We've probably all heard Presidential candidate Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic say that we have about seven million citizens abroad today. If it has already spoken from the mouth of this official, it must be. I've never heard the government admit that 7 million of our citizens are abroad before. So if the government admits, we need to do everything we can to protect these citizens, especially in the light of this convention that we are ratifying today. The adoption of this law will enable Ukraine to join the convention and testify to its willingness to adhere to international standards in the activities of the authorities that exercise State oversight and control over compliance with labour legislation. The ratification of the convention will, in my opinion, expand the legislative field that regulates the activities of the executive branch to provide State oversight and control over compliance with legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u57	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u58	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is about inspection of agricultural work. Of course, the faction of the Socialist Party, which our national MPs are present, will support ratification. We all have to imagine if at all. And what we're going to do today is we're going to protect the village where there's more than 55 percent of the unemployed in the countryside today. We need to get back to that question. I realize that's not the subject of this bill, but I can't talk about these painful issues. I refer to Vladimir Mikhailovich at the National Agrarian Party meeting, where he noted that 90 percent of the technology that is in the village today worked its depreciation periods. But it's still working on this technique of our people. How are they protected? When this technique has to be, we'll talk like this, it's put on scrap metal. And people are working on it. Try to stop this technique. What, you think he's gonna be working in the country today? For the past ten years, no president or number of governments have thought about what we have proved to be agriculture and working conditions in agriculture? The following question. I agree with the Minister of Labor here, Mikhail Mikolayovich Papiev. Where, do we have agrarian unions today? The All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Shops!!! Ready to make such commitments and protect ourselves, and we do. But was it not purposely done to prevent the agricultural trade from protecting the farmer today, and in general, who would protect him? I guess I really do agree with the colleagues who are here. And I agree with what Alexander Moroz has said on several occasions, that this system of power that has bankrupted, and it's also said, is stretching towards some powerful chairs. Bankruptcy has no place in power. Therefore, I believe that by ratifying these conditions we must make a commitment and the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine undertakes to do everything in the first three years after October 31st in order to restore agriculture, to restore our agricultural producer, who was one of the first on European soils. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u60	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, the adoption of this bill is, of course, strictly necessary, because there is currently no more disadvantaged population than village labourers. And it would be time to repent of those supporters of capitalism who called themselves Democrats, Patriots, falsely called themselves, usefully called themselves, in the name of profit, dream of wealth, in the meantime, if there was a little conscience, it would be time to repent and say, "We were wrong." It's a living thing, but it's a crime to bring this misery to the people. I've been driving around my Lenin district, and I've seen terrible things: people have nothing, people have no fuel, people can't live, people can't heal, there's no ambulance. And, by the way, all human rights have been lost because of capitalism. And the radio, by the way, doesn't work in Lenin County. Why, because criminal power - I stress - is interested in the public not hearing the broadcasts, broadcasts from the Supreme Council. Not so often is the word of truth, because most, let's face it, are the so-called right-wing, so-called patriots, so-called centrists, express the interests of the oligarchs. That's true. Sometimes they speak the truth in the name of populism, in the name of coming back to power, in the preservation of power, but sometimes the truth sounds. And there's a radio out there, in Lenin district, that's not being recovered. And people have nowhere to go, nobody to complain, because power is criminal and is interested in preserving that focus. And again, there is no other way in which the labourers of the village, the labourers of the city, the workers of industry, the merchants of all labourers, the young people who are interested in getting jobs, there is no other option but to change the political focus, except to end the course, the capitalist course, except to return to the socialist course. Note: neighbouring Belarus. We will not talk about China, we will not talk about Sweden, where the socialist focus is high, very high standard of living. But pay attention to Belarus. Thanks to the socialist orientation and the alliance we have with Russia, the village lives normally. [[At least bad, but a union.]] People get a normal, normal salary. They are developing agriculture, and thanks to capitalist reform, privatization is going terribly well. It is necessary to return to the socialist path, to create collective societies that must indeed have greater autonomy than before in the USSR, and that will be progressive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. One minute. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Of course, this bill is now needed in a normal country. I say "in a normal country," because the task of the work inspection system is to ensure the application of legal standards in the field of working conditions and the protection of workers during their work, such as working hours, wages, weekly rest, holidays, job security. What are we going to be? Ruined, destroyed farms, ruined, and out of place are not suitable combines and other techniques. What is the protection of the work? I'm afraid, frankly, that the honourable national MPs will not be any worse to the villagers than this convention, because the controllers, the inspectors who are about to be, are going to be the ones who are going to strangle them, as Security Service today is putting to rest the heads of the village council to vote for Yanukovich. Security officers have been turned into pre-election agents. This is also done today in all other governmental structures. And then you're going to add a structure that's going to do that. Therefore I urge you not to give it to God, nor to increase it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u63	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We're going to determine the composition of the bill. I'm voting on the draft law on ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 129 of 1969 "On Inspection of Agricultural Work", Bill No. 0168. Please vote. [[11:46:12]] For 369 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Protection of Secret Information, Bill No. 0193. Reported by Igor Vasilovich Drizcany, deputy head of the Security Service. Please, Igor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! The draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Protection of Secret Information is proposed for your consideration in connection with the need to observe the internal procedure for the validity of the agreement signed last May in Prague. The purpose of this agreement is to create the right legal framework for the exchange of classified information between the parties in the process of cooperation in areas such as national security, the protection of the rule of law along the lines of combating terrorism, drug trafficking, international criminal groups. The agreement is also signed taking into account the prospects for military, technical, political and scientific cooperation between the two states that are being implemented today within the framework of individual contracts and contracts. The agreement ensures the exclusively equitable nature of the relationship in the information exchange process, does not give any of the advantages and obliges the participants to take the necessary measures to protect the secret information and information that is restricted to access. According to its content, the treaty is fully in line with international practice, and its text is in agreement with all interested ministries and institutions. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the ratification of the treaty is in the national interest of Ukraine. She was also supported by the Committee of Profiles. Please support the bill proposed for your consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u65	Thank you, Igor Vasilovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Put it on the board. Three minutes. Please, Sokirka, prepare the Colonies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u67	Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin. I thank National Deputy Sokirko, we'll ask a common question, it's going to be two questions. First question. Article 8 provides for the making of citizens’ visits with the prior approval of the competent security authorities. Including the visits of members of parliament. I think that's the possibility of control that's been done in Germany as well. The second question. We have a colleague, his name is Ratushniak, he was in the district of Uzhgrad last night, two security officers did something in his garden and were detained. Could you please tell me if it will continue to be so long that the Security Service will act as an unacquainted task? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u69	As to the first question. It's not about any visit of citizens of one state to another. It is only about visits to objects and places where secret information is used. Accordingly, the rules proposed by this covenant will apply to all categories of citizens who will make appropriate visits. With regard to the second question, I take it as a parliamentary appeal and the answer to that appeal will be given to you in a specific order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u70	Please, Colonyari, follow him Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give the word of Connovaluku Valery Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u72	Please take the microphone of Konovaluka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell us: is this Agreement in general in line with the legislation of countries that are part of the European Union, and what countries do we already have ratified similar agreements in the European Union? And the second question is, is there any relationship in another area with regard to the protection of classified information, in general, with countries in Eastern and Western Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u74	Thank you. In general, Ukraine has already made more than 50 agreements on this subject, agreements, including those of the European Union, also exist among the subjects of this legal relationship with Ukraine. With regard to the first part of the question, the purpose of the treaty was first to reconcile the situation of Ukrainian legislation with that of the treaty party, the Czech Republic. In keeping with this goal, the corresponding reconciliations were carried out on a bilateral level. In general, the European Union’s legislation is also in line with this covenant, which is the conclusion of the relevant Supreme Council Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u75	Please, Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u76	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Please pass the word to Stepanovich Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u77	Bulby's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u78	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Your Honor, I have a question. The Czech Republic is a member of the European Community, the European Union. And of course, of course, this imposes certain circumstances on the use of further information, our information with the Czech Republic. As you think, our secret information will be protected under such circumstances as when it becomes known to the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Yes, there will be, and there is an appropriate position in this treaty regarding the possibility of transmitting information received as a result of the exchange to third parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u80	Thank you. Please sit down, Igor Vasilovich. The committee is chairman of the Staszewski Committee, Stanislav Telisforovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. On the committee, we considered a bill. In view of the fact that the Deputy Head of the Committee, the Deputy Security Service, justified the need and the purpose, I would only point out that the implementation of the provisions of the treaty does not provide for additional financial costs from the State Budget, the agreement does not contain provisions that conflict with our current legislation, and its implementation does not require the adoption of new laws or changes to existing legislation. Before we looked into it, we sent a bill to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the National Security and Defence Committee. They support the bill. The European Integration Committee at its meeting on June 9 concluded that it was not possible to recommend it, on the ground that there were insufficient grounds on the part of the Ukrainian Security Service. At the time of our committee's consideration of the bill, such written reasoning was presented to both the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to support and ask the Supreme Council to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u82	Thank you, Stanislav Telisforovich. Is there a need to discuss? Please, nine minutes, then. Carmazin, prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u83	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I think the general conclusion of my introduction to this convention is that ratification will be positive and will contribute to Ukraine's cooperation with the Czech Republic. That's the first conclusion. The second conclusion is that this does not mean that we should not make warnings on such matters. I am addressing the Defence and Security Committee, which should also be involved in this process. I am addressing the Ukrainian Security Service for the reason that article four provides for restrictions on access to information for the purpose of service. "For duty" and "mystery" is a completely different information. Of course, it had to be removed from here. I would also like the Ukrainian Parliament to make a warning on two points. The first point concerns article 8 of this convention. I would like to point out that it says here: "The making of visits by citizens of a state of one party to objects or premises using classified information located in the territory of the States of the other party shall be approved in advance in writing by the competent security authority of the receiving State." And so on. I mean, if a parliamentarian could have come to the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the Ministry of Security earlier, that was normal, because secret information is being used there, now he's going to be completely controlled by the Special Forces. And that's what we've been talking about when we've been reading disturbing messages from Germany, where the resident of intelligence, General Kravchenko, has been telling us how he's been asked to report on the movement of deputies, and how to track how to report it, we need to be followed. I think it's supposed to be in this kind of agreement, and it's clearly written, "except for the parliamentarians." What happens there is the ministers of the government, whoever you want, do whatever you want with them, they're your problems, they're the people of the executive branch. As for the parliamentarians, again. The second question. Article 11, “Consultation and inspection”, in paragraph 3, states: “Each party shall allow the competent security authority of the State of the other party to carry out an inspection of the conditions under which the secret information received shall be stored and used.” I have no doubt that this does not conflict with Ukraine’s national security. So the NATO unit is going to be screaming and watching what's happening in the Ukrainian Security Service. Let's read this point and look. I, for example, believe that there should have been a warning here, and I didn't have to sign for the government of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There'll be no denying that we'll be working without a break, no more than 14 today. Those who are hungry may benefit. Then let's finish the question and then figure it out. Please, Melniczuk, prepare Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u85	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Practically most of the questions I wanted to raise in my speech, my colleague Carmazin pointed out here, and those warnings that were to come out of my mouth. But I'd like to stop at the next one. Why do the majors, the security generals, seem to have this kind of nerve lately? Why do they increasingly sell information abroad? Why do more and more of what we should know in this room as national deputies, we'll know somewhere, we'll talk, well, let's put it this way, for a booger? Why does the secret information come to us from there? But because, in fact, the turmoil that is happening in the state today is not the nerve of even those people who go through decades of special training, not that of a private citizen of Ukraine. And that's why today we read from other media outlets, from newspapers and so on, reports that and what orders are given to the state to keep track of, we're going to talk like that, to the actors, to the people's deputies and to the citizens of Ukraine. Of course, once we have ratified it, we will speak, so the ratification procedure of this bill may somehow affect what is happening in the country today. Whether it's classified information that I'm about to give, we're going to talk to the peasants, to the national MPs who are present. I don't think that's classified information. But it may surprise everyone. You see what we've come to, what we've reached in Ukraine, where we've come to?Oh, my God! Today, seven tons of grains are to be given for one ton of fuel. The year requires a farmer to earn a ton of fuel to process two or three acres [3 ha] of land. And today we're talking about these numbered successes of government, leadership and so on. Dear friends, let us be frank with you: but there is no success. In particular, we say that grains have been harvested. Yeah, a lot. But look at the structure of the soybeans, which are occupied by the crops. Once upon a time, the sugar beet, once the vegetables, the fruit, once we grew the flax in our fields, was our produce. What do we have today? We have grain, and it's already coming out of Odessa abroad. We don't understand why this is happening. So let's see, what's the secret information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Zubov, faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u87	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko Block. The distinguished people's deputies, the bill that we are discussing, I am convinced that we need to be supported. And I took the word for another reason today. I consider it my duty to comment yesterday on the unprecedented absurdity and social danger of the President of Ukraine's statement to the Crimea. If we were a civilized country, today Parliament would have had to be indignant and not accept all that the President had said to the Crimea yesterday. Yesterday, as we know, the whole world, including Ukraine, mourned about the fatalities of the terrible tragedy in Beslan. What conclusions did power draw from this tragedy in Ukraine, particularly President Kuchma? Speaking yesterday at the Crimea in front of the soldiers. A special task force of the internal forces, he clearly said that the threat of terrorism persisted in Ukraine, and that was the main source of the threat -- he said -- was the so-called opposition, which allegedly called for the violent overthrow of the current regime and sought to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. Ton, the nature of the assessment of the opposition in Ukraine by President Kuchma, is extremely sudden, intolerable and unacceptable in modern civil society. In general, to be very frank and to call things by their names, yesterday President Kuchma announced the start of a total civil war in Ukraine. Why? Yes, since that day, all opposing political parties in the country will be judged by power as a social basis of extremism and any force against it justified and already authorized by the authorities, starting with the ban on demonstrations, other acts of protest, ending the physical elimination of the leaders of the opposition and other disadvantaged persons. It is no coincidence that in the same statement, distinguished colleagues, President Kuchma announced the need for an urgent adoption of the law on extremism. Who and why does this law need to be understood? Of course, terrorism must be combated, and this is indeed a very serious danger, and there is already an appropriate legislative framework for it today. And the law on extremism is necessary in order to legitimize the intentions of the President yesterday. It is bitter to hear such a statement by a senior official of Ukraine. In my view, respectable colleagues, we need today not so much the law on extremism but the mental expertise of all candidates to the people's deputies in order to do everything possible to ensure that never, under any circumstances, the President of Ukraine could even theoretically become a mentally unhealthy person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u88	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Please, just a minute. Solomonine with a motive. Solomon’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? When the office of the President of Ukraine was listened to for several months or maybe years, it was recorded and all this information was leaking out clearly where and now we're not finished, but we understand and we know. For example, I am personally convinced that this shameful thing, perhaps under the patronage of our own Security Services, continues. So there are no secrets in Ukraine, especially for the West. And these bills, which are being introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are just trying to give the impression that our power structures are looking after national security. Our faction, understanding this helpless situation, will certainly not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, please mobilize. I am voting on the draft Act on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Protection of Secret Information, registration number of Bill 0193. [[12:07:51]] For 282 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have one ratification project left. Maybe we can vote for him now and take a break. Should We Discuss? Dear colleagues, I'm betting on the ratification of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the government. There's a note. Then the break to 12.35 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u91	To continue our work, honourable colleagues are announced for consideration the draft law on the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova, registration number 0197, and the first Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration, Vasil Teziyovich Fridayski, please. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Briefly in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u92	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, the need to adopt a law on the ratification of a free trade agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova was prompted by the signing of a free trade agreement with the Republic of Moldova on 13 November 2003. The task of this agreement is to promote the liberalisation of mutual trade, political and economic stability in the region, harmonious development and expansion of world trade in line with the principles of WTO. Since the current agreement does not provide for the application of WTO principles in the international trade between Ukraine and Moldova, and Moldova is today a member of the WTO, a new covenant has been made between countries. In accordance with the new agreement, all taxes, congregations, application of different import regimes, anti-dumping, special protection measures will take place in accordance with WTO standards. This will allow for the application of the principles of international trade in trade between Ukraine and Moldova. The agreement takes effect from Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Please support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u93	Any questions, Your Honor? Please sign up for three minutes. On the board, indicate the names of the National Deputies who have signed up for the performance. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u94	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherhood Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, I'd like you to address the warnings that I have in my constituents, in the Party of Fatherland Defenders, in the Odessites, that acquiring the validity of this agreement will make the conditions for the functioning of the domestic producers of liquor and wine products worse. By the way, the Budget Committee analyzed this, and I saw their answer from June 30, 2004, where they firmly make warnings and say they can't ratify this agreement. What can you say about this, and why did you not say so in your speech? It seems to me that it is necessary for the performance to be objective and balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u95	Thank you for asking. Today, there is no agreement between the countries of deletion. At the same time, countries apply a number of eliminations to one another. And especially on the part of Moldova, sugar removals have been applied and so forth, the whole range of products. As far as liquor or any other product is concerned. The new agreement provides that each country can apply protective measures to protect its internal market if imports from each party threaten this internal market. This is also true of liquor and any other products. So to say that the new covenant would worsen the regime simply does not have any basis. I can give you more numbers. Today, the balance between trade with Moldova and Ukraine is extremely positive. In 2003, 570 million exports from Ukraine and 70 million imports from Moldova. That is, today there is no reason to speak about the threat posed by the acceptance or ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u96	Yes. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u97	Please give my word to my colleague after the faction of Novak Volodymyr Mikolayovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u98	Vladimir Novak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u99	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear reporter! As far as I know now, there is a bilateral trade agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on free trade since 29 August 1995. We're about to ratify the agreement of April 30, 2004. It turns out that there will be two agreements in force in the legal field. Would that not prevent us from having a free trade relationship with Moldova in the first place?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u100	Thank you. The relevant draft law or the corresponding Ratification Act provides that the agreement becomes effective as Ukraine enters into the world trade organisation. As you know, these negotiations are still going on today, and they will take some time, and Parliament will, of course, have passed the Law on Ratification in the future, which determines Ukraine's accession to the world trade organisation. According to the Vienna Convention, after Ukraine has become a member of the World Trade Organization, a new covenant will become effective, it will simply replace the previous covenant and the previous covenant or its position can only take effect in a part that does not conflict with the new covenant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u101	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski. Please, time is up. Out of procedure, please, Sybko's microphone. Sybka's microphone, the Socialist Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. U.S. Socialist Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to refer to the name of this agreement: pay attention to who will trade with whom. On the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. Perhaps the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on free trade? So we're doing some kind of nonsense right now that's not really digesting. And the second question is, there are some conflicting things here. Peter Poroshenko is now present as chairman of the committee, and he has a point on this deal. So maybe give him a chance to speak, let him explain it, because from the Ministry, we're fine with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u103	Okay. Here's a statement from the Committee on Budgets, if there is a committee head, he'll express the committee's position. Please, Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We've considered this bill on the committee, and I thank my colleague and the committee secretary that he made an emphasis, but it's also been written by me that we make a note of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the name. Notice, it's just about trade between the Cabinet of Ministers instead of writing a "agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers on trade," but they've given a justification that it's too late to fix it, it's signed, it's the whole procedure. As to the fact that it was signed, this agreement, in November of last year, was considered very carefully at all levels, and the Ministry representative reasoned on the need. I'm not going to stop at this, I just want to emphasize, the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration, the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments in the Issues of European Integration, recommending that the Supreme Council ratify this agreement. And the committee at its meeting, also, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also supported and appealed to the Supreme Council to ratify. However, on June 30, after the committee had considered the matter, a letter came from the budget committee signing the committee’s head of staff saying that they had considered it and felt that it could not be ratified. And it's based on what might worsen the conditions for the functioning of domestic liquor producers. And they asked the co-reporter to be also a representative of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Our committee has decided to ratify, and we are proposing to the Supreme Council: ratify. Well, I've reported everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u105	Thank you, Stanislav Telisforovich. From the powder committee, please. We agreed it was from the committee. He simply represents and answers a question from a government representative. Now for the Committee's position, please, on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, we accept that we have a positive attitude towards ratifying any free trade agreements, because there is a sense of national MPs that the adoption of such agreements creates favourable conditions for Ukrainian producers, for access to the markets of foreign countries, which creates conditions for the development of production and so on. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of this agreement, we have completely different consequences. First of all, I'd like to look to my fellow Communists, my fellow socialists and my fellow agrarians. These are the political forces that declare the protection of the village's interests. In each single speech, the leader of the Communist Party claims that in Ukraine, sugar factories are being cut down. So the reason why sugar mills are cut is because of the import of donor sugar and the import of sugar, using free trade agreements. If before the ratification of this agreement, the government had the possibility of introducing special tariffs, duties or a mechanism of removal from the free trade agreement of individual commodity positions, such as sugar, such as liquoric products. And why did they do it? Because individual countries, I don't want to mention them right now, export more products to Ukraine than they can physically produce, that is, they are transit states, collecting 100, 120, 150 dollars in tons that should come into the Ukrainian budget and are a form of support to the national producer. I emphasize that now that this agreement is ratified, we will deprive the government of the possibility of protecting the national market and the national producer. So by fully supporting the need for this agreement, by fully supporting the need to develop relations, including the trade and economics with the Republic of Moldova, I am absolutely convinced that these points should be separately set out in the agreement with Moldova, because this has a direct impact on the manufacturer and, as a result, I want to remind you that hundreds of millions of dollars have been invested in the 2004 State budget for the sale of import quotas for sugar-sort. These quotas cannot be sold by the government and hundreds of millions of dollars will not reach the State budget, so according to the Budget Code, at least ratify it since 2005, if this position is the will of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u107	Let's move on to the discussion. Please state on board the names of the national MPs who have been enrolled for the debate. Let's take a minute 9. Well, let's define by vote. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare Solomon. Let's do 12, let's do 15, so that we can perform, you know. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'm pointing out to you that this agreement violates and violates the balance that has now taken place in the state and will be detrimental to our wine companies. I refer here to members of the majority who respond calmly to the veto by the President of Ukraine on the Law we passed on the protection of our Ukrainian winemakers. Eight times the price. This is the first blow after the total destruction of the vineyards and everything, and these are my voters, these are yours. We, as protectors of the country, couldn't miss this deal and we didn't have it ratified until the break and now I'm explaining to you why. Eight times to raise excises now, and the President vetoed it. And in addition, there's the Free Trade Agreement. Dear representatives of the ministries of economics, finance and so on, with the addition of "no" to the economy, not finance and disruption. I'm talking to you. What are you doing for the state? If we're in the SAT, there's a whole other rule going to go. Who today is blocking Ukraine’s entry into WTO? You write it yourself, who's blocking it? I quote you: The Ministry of Economics and European Integration. It is the Moldovan side that is delaying Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization by delaying the negotiation process and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe we shouldn't rush to a place where we're not exactly asked? I'm addressing all the national MPs right now. First. Such an agreement is premature. The other one. The interests of Transnistria must now be protected. That's where our Ukrainian interests are, where our Ukrainian population and Ukrainian citizens are. And I'm talking to people who didn't know. By 1960, more than 60 percent of schools in Moldova were in Ukrainian, and now this criminal government in charge of this President is doing what? Transnistria is protected and strangled because it is not the type of language that Moldova teaches. And the fact that there was no school and there was nothing in the English language to do that. I repeat, that's where the native ethnic Ukrainians live, that was our Ukrainian territory. I'm not in the territory right now, but I want to remind you. And I want to remind you that we can't strangle Transnistria either. This covenant will also crush Transnistria. And now, in the end, we're going to the Kotsubin rally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u109	Thank you. Time's up, Yuri Anatoliyovich, time's up, thank you. Please follow the Rules. Yuri Solomatin, get ready for Yavorowski. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. My colleagues in "Our Ukraine" have just convinced me that, as if little Moldova is a great economic danger to a great state, ten times the size of the state as much as Ukraine. What's the point of this statement? I thought of sugar. But remember that our candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, Communist Peter Simonenko, in every speech, mentions how the sugar industry of Ukraine was destroyed. And if some other sugar factories were preserved, they were preserved in certain industrial and financial groups. And I'm proposing a very simple question: are those who spoke to me from this rostrum, are they not the owners of these sugar companies, and they're confusing their own business interests with the interests of all of Ukraine. We should not confuse sin with the righteous. I mean, really, Moldova is already a member of the WTO. What's more, it's not bitter, maybe for us Ukrainians, it's moved to Europe much more than we do. I just want to say one thing about it. On the part of Moldova, despite certain objections affecting its national interests, we are always like the nations, like the people who were part of a large state with Moldova -- the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics -- we will find strong support for moving towards this World Trade Organization. By this time, my colleague had asked if it was in conflict with the agreement already in place on relations and free trade between Moldova and Ukraine. If this agreement is ratified, it will only take effect after Ukraine joins the World Trade Organization. And I am personally, and the faction that I belong to, the Communist Party of Ukraine, we not only hope, we believe that we will receive support from Moldova, its state and party leadership, from all the people of Moldova in this matter. So our faction considers it appropriate to ratify this agreement. And I urge everyone in this room to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u111	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I would like to address my predecessor, who was standing here in this rostrum and say the phrase of one great man, saying: "Don't exaggerate, you're not a microscope." Well, first of all, do you, Mr. Solomon, blame Yavorovsky and you for being behind me in sugar factories, factories, and so forth. I think it's the same behind me as it is behind you. Therefore, do not generalize, please in your mood. Second, our Ukraine is terrified of little Moldova and the great Ukraine is afraid of Moldova, no one is afraid of anyone. There is a sacred concept for every policy, for every government official, these are the national interests of our state. Peter Prashenko made it very clear that our country was in position, and all I have to do is complete it. I've really been to the Restroom this summer and I've been literally approached by people and rural people: do whatever it takes to avoid ratifying this document, because soon we'll have our peppers there, vegetables and so on under the pressure of the Moldovans, we'll just agree with the pig or throw them out, and the Moldovan will, as it were, dominate our market. What's wrong with that? Why do we have to hurry? Do we know how many mistakes have been made with these guilty materials? I have the impression that our president is now going to have his team, like sailors, taking everything under his wing, that it's still possible to break free from this not honest Ukraine, but that the president is vetoing, and the president is printing the veto. In the 57th article, listen to the same thing, you have to solve this problem with the teachers, and some of the teachers are coming from the east, they're going to Kiev. And I'm convinced that coming is the worst thing we can think of today against teaching. They're vetoing the 57th article, and the president is also vetoing the bill where we wanted to support ours. We have the South, we have the Herson, we have the Crimea, we have the Carpathians, we have our wine factories, we have the beautiful wines. Why do we allow this to be buried in our eyes? I was born, my homeland, literally under Moldova itself, about 40 miles [40 km] from Moldova. No one has anything against the molded today, but once again, there are national interests of our nation and so that these interests may be protected today from these marauders who are pointing at us from all sides. I am convinced that this bill does not require haste and that it cannot be voted for in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, a replica of Solomon. Out of the way. It was mentioned in a normal tone. Please. The replica. Then Matvienkov from the procedure. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u114	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. I want to respond very briefly to the comments made by the previous speaker, referring to my last name. Sir, your position has been repeatedly presented in your numerous speeches on the Ukrainian radio from this rostrum. And the price of your position in the Ukrainian people, sorry, five copies. The ones that spin on five channels. So the people of Ukraine, I hope so, no longer pay any attention to your pranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u115	Matvienkov, please, with a motive. Then. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u116	Matvienkov, 55th District. Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The economy of those States has remained unbalanced since the 1995 division of the Union. And we certainly need to understand that the free trade area is needed by each of these States. Well, there are, in fact, purely technical, economic issues. And next to sugar, I'd like to sharpen the issue of scrap metal. You and I have taken concrete steps, we have protected the domestic producer, we have closed the market from the unfettered expert and the lawlessness that has been created. Moldova to this day is a fortress, a transit through which tens of thousands of tons of scrap metal flow through the Rybnica. 800,900, one million, one and a half million, two! Besides, uncontrollable things. How much is Fisherman spending today? All these things that I am talking about must be agreed upon or written in a separate agreement, in a separate treaty. Clearly, a free trade area is needed, no one objects, but what needs to be a healthy sense, a healthy logic for protecting their own producer, let's say, let's drop the ratification today and come back here anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u117	Yes, with the motivations of School, Carmazin, Mining and Vaszczuk -- that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to go back to the name and content of this beautiful law, which offers us this agreement, which offers us to ratify the government. [[in quotes]] I'll remind you that this is a free trade agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. And now it's going to be free, this time without all the questions that the government can put in control of the passage of goods between the two states. I would like to stress that Moldova has, at the moment, indeed, been told here by the head of the budget committee, selling wine, fruits more than it can produce for 2-3 years. So what are we talking about, what free trade can we now sign a treaty with a country that is really blocking Ukraine's entry into WTO? That's two. Thirdly, here he signed this agreement on the part of Ukraine, Kirilenko, his last name, that things, there's never been specified, are just signatures. If Kirilenko were so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u119	Yes, Carmazin, then the miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u120	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I was concerned that I was just speaking to a representative of the Communist Party, and I am responsible for saying that I, Yuri Carmazin, and no one in the Party of Protectors of India have nor have nor had any sugar or wine mills. And absolutely right now was the people's deputy of Matvienkov that this is a quadratic to move everything forward. And whoever wants to know will see. And just to support this agreement, so the Party's leadership, I quote, as it said there, and, of course, which party in Moldova is in charge of all this process, that's why they're on the Ukrainian side, including the Transnistria, and they're trying to destroy it. So I would like to tell you that we have no moral right to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u121	Eugene Gorenik. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u122	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! With the light hand of the acting Prime Minister, the word "zone" has become very popular. And even though it's not the word in the agreement right now, we actually have the opportunity to turn our Ukrainian-Moldov territory into a smuggling zone. There were enough arguments about that. Anyway, Moldovan White Aist has the opportunity to kill all of our productions from Crimea, Clothing and Carpathians. Free transit provides opportunities for full smuggling. So we need to make sure that our territory in Ukraine does not really become a smuggling zone and in ratifying this document. That's why he can't be ratified. At the entry into the WTO, these positions will act automatically, and the main thing is that in the presidential elections, really, Ukraine will not become a zone. So the government can't be allowed to take power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u123	Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk, National Agrarian Party And then the Cloud. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, of course, should have a good deal with neighbors. But if our Ministry of Economics in its own time had listened to the opinion of the people's deputies, particularly our faction, and we wrote that we should be limited in the regime of free trade with Moldova. You have to clearly write out the goods of domestic production -- and little Moldova will not threaten exports to Ukraine. But when it's not specified in the treaty clearly that these are supposed to be goods originating only in Moldovan, just in the production of Moldova, with....that there's a huge flow of wine materials, sugar-cheese, sugar syrup and all that. This harms Ukrainian farmers. And second moment. At moments like this. What Matthews was talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u125	Yes, Stepan Cloud, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u126	The cloud, the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! I don't think it's necessary to explain the very meaning of this agreement. It's obvious. This is a diversion, a bold, open diversion of the mafia against Ukraine. This is a crime against the state. And I'm surprised that the smuggling that's been going on all the time, now the government wants to make it legal. I don't think it's for nothing a name coded who signed it, there's no position to sign for Ukraine, there's only karaoke, you know, autograph. That's it. I think it wasn't a bargain and Parliament was a normal parliament, and if we respect ourselves like that, we have to investigate whose commission and why such an agreement is signed. And I'm very surprised why the Foreign Policy Committee supported this diversion against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u127	Yes, dear colleagues, we have discussed the matter in detail. Positions defined. I am voting on the proposal of a committee of profile to approve the draft Ukrainian law ratifying the agreement on free trade between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. Registration number 0197. [[13:05:42]] For-146 The decision is not taken. In factions, please, Our Ukraine - 0, Ukraine -10, Communist faction - 56, SDPU - 23, Deminiciatives, People's Government - 6, Labour Ukraine - 29, National Agrarian Party - 0, SPI - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, Center - 2, Union - 15, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, Postfaction - 3. The draft Law on the Order of Appointment of Presidents of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company of Ukraine, and on the Cessation of Their Powers, has been announced for consideration. Reporter to the committee on freedom of speech and information. As far as the rules are concerned, let's agree on our positions. The committee proposes this rule: for the report, 3 minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter, 3 minutes, for the discussion and decision-making, 5 minutes, just 11 minutes. Is there no objection? They're offering a 9 for discussion. Is there no objection? None. So we're done. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! We're dealing with an ancient story where a dot has to be placed in the Ukrainian Parliament. We discussed this issue, the committee worked and took into account all the suggestions that came to the solution of this painful issue. And the author's team, composed of Mishura Valery Dmitrovitch of the Communist Party, Omelchenka Alexander Alexandrovitch of "Centre", Tomenka and Boyka of "Our Ukraine", offered the non-fractional, in our opinion, a compromise solution to this complex but very important problem. Today, the State Broadcasting Company, called First National, is outside the reach and control zone not only by Parliament but above all by society. I don't want to talk about who runs this radio company, how the decision is made there, and I've talked about it a lot. It seems to me that I was listening to Stephen Havrish today, who said that we should all unite around constitutional reform and that Parliament should have more authority. I fully support it in the part that we have to take this first step so that Parliament has the opportunity and the appointment and release the head of the National Broadcasting Company, listen to the annual reports on what has been done. I'll just give you one example. We're looking for the National Company's money with the National Chamber for a year, and we can't find it because the National Television Department says it made one amount out of the commercial, the Central Electoral Commission says another, and we're told the third amount. [[our budget money]] So if we can't figure this out, of course, Parliament has to listen to it and make the right decision. We have not violated the President's right under this Act. The president's running for office. We have proposed a compromise scheme that does not conflict with the current regime of Ukraine. At the initiative of the President, or at the initiative of the Supreme Council, there is an annual report and an appropriate decision is taken regarding the direction of the National Television Company. The point is, once again, if we don't intervene in this situation, we have the National Television today, it has two key programs: one -- a telemarket, a permanent telemarket, where bioaddicts sell other things, and so on; and the second part is news, which is 90 percent of all manipulations and lies, there's some other Ukraine where we obviously don't live. So I am absolutely convinced that Parliament is understanding that we should return to the Social Parliamentary Control of the National Television and allow it to take the first step so that it will be a social organization in the near future, and that there will be no situation where all the journalists have been writing service notes for the last three months, why when Yanukovich went into the captivity of the Olympic team and failed to show it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u129	Questions. Please sign up for three minutes on the question, we made a deal. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction socialist. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Here's a statement from the rostrum, please report to the board. Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u130	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" party group of the People's Movement of Ukraine. I have this question for you: could you explain the role of a television company, a national radio company? What's it like, the role of a national television company in shutting down the Continent radio, Freedom Radio?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u131	I think I think they have nothing to do with it and I think in them, I already said, enough is enough, enough of my work and I wanted this work and this activity to actually relate to providing objective information about what's going on in a country that's a real and specific situation in Ukraine, not to represent one political force, or let's say one or the other people's activities. And I'll tell you in July, and in August, I'll tell you that they're so excited about their work, that there's practically no Leonida Kuchma there, or that there's never been a parliament there. Since the president isn't there, the Ukrainian people have long since disappeared from national television.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u132	Yes, Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u133	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear reporter, you have objectively assessed the role of the State Broadcasting Company as negative in the information space and in the social processes of Ukraine. As you can see, you can also solve the human resources issue of district, regional, public television companies. Because they are grossly ignoring current legislation, they have become a tool for the service of the local authorities. And so it's obviously worth looking at in the complex. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u134	The situation looks like this. This law, of course, we are taking the first step because we already agree on the procedure at Parliament for the appointment of heads of the National Television Company and the corresponding formula for the creation of public councils that affect the editorial programme, the policy of the National Television Company. Today, as you know, district directors of television companies are in double-dealing with the appropriate division of the district administration and the State Department. And I think it's also a subject for us to discuss in context and administrative reform, including. It is quite clear that district television companies should be social - speaking television companies, where the local community would have to make decisions, not officials from Kiev, who would run the local district television company. This is not exactly the subject of this law in this case. But I am convinced that this must be decided so that local self-government and the city community in their own territory have the opportunity to influence the appointment of this person. Is this going to be a district council? We have to think about how to change that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u135	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u136	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I ask you to pass the word to Boki Ivan Sidorovich, a colleague of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u137	Thank you, Valentino Petrovno. I wanted to ask you this question, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, in support of all your suggestions. We know very well that today it is the National Television Company. And we know exactly what's going on there. Please tell us if you are convinced that this process of rebirth of people who have served the same system of things today is just as faithful as serving the new system — in principle careers and no more. Another possibility, for example, of creating a healthy climate on television after these restructurings, perhaps not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u138	I think we should be optimistic and we need to get out and, unfortunately, the National Television is here!Oh, my God! the shadow system of governance of the country, when the leader, I am not now defending the leadership of the National Telecommuny, when he, you are absolutely right, here!!!! They say one thing and they do the exact same thing. So if we're here in the session room once a year, we're going to listen to the report, and we're not just going to make the President's recommendations, we're going to make the right decisions. I think this rebirth of the evolutionary will give you the opportunity to either assign people to speak here on the rostrum the same way and do the same thing. But while they're reporting to us on the rostrum, and they're subordinated to a different structure, I think there's no reason to believe that the First National will be national, there's no reason for national television.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u139	Yes, thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Time's up. So let's talk about how we agreed on nine minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party. to prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I'll take your point together, I'll make a second statement. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region All - Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft law sets out the order of appointment and release of directors of the Ukrainian national television company. The faction today has determined that we will support the bill, so there is no reason to agitate or not to agitate. We've decided what we're going to support. I'd like to stop, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know that you're doing a lot of things about this, I'd like to stop by the law on the status of the Ukrainian National MP on television and radio. Let's take, if we're open, let's talk, the direct air is coming, the MP is speaking, there's a lot of questions. Does he arrive in 20 minutes and come out, and we'll say, yes, his MP activity, what will he do over a period of time, and answer questions? In the 2-3 years that I'm going to talk to, I've been on TV, I've been on 1-2, well, 3 TV questions. Not enough 20 minutes. Perhaps you will consider increasing the time of the debate on television for the performance of your parliamentary powers. The following question, we are warned constantly, we have to apply in ten days. Does every deputy know what's going to happen in 10 days? Maybe Parliament will decide that work in the constituencies will replace this work here in the session room. And we apply, we don't go to the region, so our performance is broken. I would like to stop at the problem that exists in the rural radio network today. The number of changes in leadership on top doesn't add anything, there's nothing, we'll talk, there's nothing to change the situation on the spot. Today, nearly 60 percent, and about 80 percent, the rural radio network has been reduced. And who took responsibility for that. In general, when you talk to peasants, you hear the following comments at the parliament’s address: Please tell us that we are unable to watch television because we are unable to buy TV, and the old one is no longer working, and the radio in the village is not working at all. And if we go to managers in places, they say, "We don't have the money to do it." Thank God that there are funds for those who are building palaces and for those who are building and others, we will be speaking in vain today for the people of Ukraine. But the hands do not reach the rural radio network. For that matter, I would like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u141	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u142	There's Karmazin -- I answer for those who doubt -- and there will be. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". It's me for the "employees," I'm telling you, I always am and I will be. So, honourable national MPs, I'm addressing you. Despite the fact that Tomenko is my faction friend, Artemenko is also a faction, and the law is very right, very right, despite that, I want to emphasize that we need complexity and systems in our approach to legislation. We don't need butterfly laws. The Law on Television and Radio was to be amended. God is with him, not yet. Let's talk about this law for now. Who today gave the President of Ukraine the right to appoint the head of the Ukrainian National Television Company? Where is it, this right, written down? There is no such right in the Constitution. So it's about usurping powers. We have to get out of this situation somehow. And it's for us to get out of this situation, and it's for this law. But think about what the drafters had to do. I support them in this, but to what: I should not be tried for committing a deliberate crime, or this trial has been extinguished, or removed in accordance with the established law. So we're talking about what a moral person should be, and the Prime Minister can be, and the President can be. Do you understand? So I think that the proposal that the leaders of this company are appointed by the Supreme Council for the submission of the President of Ukraine. At this stage, we can agree. How can we agree that at least 100 national deputies have the right to initiate a report by the head of the company? Once again, given that this is a butterfly law, which is a framework law, I would ask that it be supported, but then it needs to be put in place a television and radio bill. And speaking to you, I want to say that yesterday the National Television, broadcasting the President's speech, actually called for the collapse of the existing system in the state. What's going on in the internal forces, the IMF's weekly personal composition training system, the pressure on the manifesto runs only says one thing. I address you to all Ukrainian citizens, to the deputies. Let's make the IMF stop doing that. But first, we need to influence the President. And I'm talking to journalists. Do not broadcast such painful speeches by the President, including on this occasion as it was yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u143	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u144	Vladimir Yavorowski. Honourable Lawmakers of Ukraine! Do we need this bill today? I'm absolutely convinced that it wasn't just our committee on freedom of speech, it was life itself. In fact, you can repeatedly repeat the beautiful phrase of Ukrainian humorist Felix Krivin, who said, "Remember. or honor the freedom of speech in Ukraine with a moment of silence." I don't think it's just a minute of silence, but a year of silence would be possible, because even in comparison to the early 1990s, Ukraine today made such a terrible, terrible turnout in the past in freedom of speech, which is just hard to imagine. In fact, we have a single channel today, the first, the second and the third, which flows all kinds of lies, fakes and political hypocrisy. I keep thinking about, let's say, what's stolen from the Chrystal where they want to transfer from Sevastopol to Donuzlaw. All of this can then be corrected after the election. But the fact that an entire generation today is brought up in an atmosphere of lies, I say again, and fakes, is quite obvious. I don't want to blame the president of the radio company or the television company today, they're vulnerable. It all depends simply on how much they give themselves freedom. These are people who are completely dependent. I keep thinking, let's say, what's the role? I watched, are we papayas with you or who when our Prime Minister goes into a column with athletes? All the prime ministers sit on the rostrum, wave their hand, and so forth. And ours, what, represents the sport of correctional colonies? I take it that Ukraine was represented by this sport at the Olympics, that the whole world is amazed at it? That's why I'm saying again, or today the President's Administration is calling and committing to giving 20 minutes to the radio instead of Vladimir Yavorovsky's one lady, of whom the classic of Ukrainian literature, I, by the way, am grateful to Lithuania that he quoted Zagreb yesterday, and I quote Dimarov, who said, at the meeting, by the way, I said, quote, "I don't want to be dragged into court because of this lady's crying shirt." That's how they're pushing from the Administration to give her 20 minutes. I am convinced that this bill will allow Parliament to influence the election of the president and the radio. And the last thing I want to say. First. I'm arguing with our legal department. He says this is not provided for by the Constitution. But this is not for the President's authority, but not for the Supreme Council. That is, our hands are untied. And I'm convinced that we can put this bill into this empty niche. I very much ask them to vote on both the majority and the minority. This bill simply needs every Ukrainian viewer whose soul wants to hear the truth a little bit in this country. Thank you and I believe you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the draft Law on the Order of Appointment of Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers, registration number 5459. [[13:27:03]] For 209 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? By factions, well, let's do factions. "Our Ukraine" - 91, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 54, SDPU - 0, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 1, "The Hard Ukraine" - 0, "The People's Farm - 9, SPO - 18, Block Timoshenko - 16, "Centre" - 12, "The Union" - 0, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 3, non-fractional - 5. Consider the following questions. Let the committee say I can't scream. The committee proposes, then we vote. Tomenko, please, microphone. Tomenka's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u146	We suggest rereading the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u147	The committee proposes to re-read it. I am voting, in accordance with the Rules, on this proposal to re-read the draft Law on the Order of Appointment of Heads, Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine, and on the Cessation of Their Powers, registration number 5459. [[13:28:48]] For 243 Decision taken. So let's go over the draft laws with the reduced procedure. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values concerning the powers of law enforcement authorities. Registration number 4527. The rapporteur is Minister of Culture and Art Bogicki Igor Petrovich. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Les Tanjuk. Please, Igor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing to you a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values regarding the powers of law enforcement authorities. The proposed bill is designed to take into account the current practice of criminal art. Interpol reports that more than 40 organized crime groups are operating in Western Europe alone, consisting of former citizens of the USSR, SND, and specialized in the organization of the theft of art for smuggling outside Ukraine and further trafficking. According to experts, Ukrainian criminality has already made its way into the international criminal antiquities business. So today, the problem of effectively resisting the illegal exchange of art works, improving the legal and regulatory framework of the process, and ensuring its implementation. As you can see, the distinguished national MPs, the search for the cultural values of the Antiquarians, have their own characteristics. That's right. National rarity is usually used to sell abroad, where prices are several times higher, or dozens of times higher, and in these cases foreign citizens are often involved, at times known from the press, in conflict with diplomats. Today, these crimes expose the authorities of the public prosecutor’s office, internal affairs, customs officers, the BSS, and, to some extent, the border guards. These offices have an urgent need for legitimate communication, data banks, and so on. That is why article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values is supplemented by a separate paragraph in the following edition, coordination of work on the search in Ukraine of illegally imported and outside Ukraine of illegally exported cultural values is carried out by the Ukrainian Security Service, with the participation of the State Service to control the movement of cultural values through the Ukrainian state border, the Ukrainian State Customs Service, and other law enforcement agencies. The bill introduced by the Government was drafted in several Committees of the Supreme Council. In particular, since it refers not to cultural values as such but to the authorization of law enforcement agencies in the Committee on Law Enforcement. He suggested that the Supreme Council accept this project in the first reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. The Committees on Culture and Spirituality, National Security and Defence recommend that the project be adopted in the first reading. Please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u149	Thank you, Igor Petrovich, please sit down. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Lesia Stepanovich Tanjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this law came to us as early as December last year and we returned it to Kabmin from the Committee's decision to recall it, because it was actually formulated very abstractly. In the sense that the prerogative of our courts has been removed, that the court cannot influence such a decision, and finally the BSS has assumed the function of correcting all services abroad after the return of values. We don't know exactly what our S.B.I. can coordinate abroad. Well, at last, the problem was not taken into account that the return is based not only on the legislation of Ukraine but also on the legislation of the country from which these values are returned. So today we sent this letter to the Tobacco, essentially it's not much worked out. I'd like us to accept this in the first reading today, but not entirely to have the opportunity to refine these moments, to give our Ukrainian court the opportunity to resolve these issues if they are not resolved in such a service order and to appeal to the international acts and legislation of those States from which these values are returned. There are some possibilities here, not proliferation. So please support this in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u151	Thank you, Oleg Stepanovich. Yeah, we've got a simplified procedure of two, two against. Please, Mironenko, prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u152	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, I will state my personal position, I will vote naturally as the faction has decided. But I would like to stress, however, that all of us must be honest with ourselves if we see something not quite so, we must say, if, let's say, a Government that we do not support, which is capitalist and in general is pursuing a policy not for the benefit of the people, but for the sake of the great capitalists, a bill that is in the interests of the State, the people, in my view, must be supported. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the objection of the committee headed by the speaker is primarily about the following. In addition, the bill states: "The coordination of work on the search for illegally exported and imported cultural values to the Ukrainian Security Service contravenes the international conventions and articles 9 of this Act, which state that the work of the ministries and other central executive bodies is coordinated with regard to the administration and control of export, import and return of cultural values, is created by the inter-ministerial council on export, import and return of cultural values." Unfortunately, the committee is here, I think, or not quite understood, a little or a little tricky. This law can only be feared, mostly, I think, by a man who is dishonest, a thief, because in this case it is the coordination of the search, which is not in the law and in article 9. Article 9, referred to by the Committee, referred to the coordination of work on return, export, return, including stolen values. But there's no search. Who's gonna do the search? We have valuable coins, a huge amount of every antique that Ukraine can proud of and generate, are being exported abroad. Who's gonna look abroad? There is no other body other than the BSC. The Interdepartmental Council will not do so, and the Embassy does not have such functions. So my personal position, I think the law itself is useful. The other question is that maybe he'll be cleaned up somewhere. But that's the rule of looking for a BSP, that's useful. And so does any State that protects the interests of its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk, a faction of socialists, prepare for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u154	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! According to the Ukrainian Security Service project and other law enforcement agencies. With the participation of the State Agency for the Control of the Movement of Cultural Values through the State Border, the Ukrainian authorities will coordinate the work related to the search for illegally exported and illegally imported cultural values into Ukraine. I'd like to point out that this is where they've already been marked by what they're doing. According to what I have, more than 50 of these groups work in Ukraine, and these criminal groups export cultural values. Actually, we need to look at something like that. We already have the results of privatization, the consequences of the work in Ukraine of the trusts that were introduced by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers in due time, their work was agreed upon. People's savings have been robbed and so on. What do we have left with today’s national cultural values? Maybe Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it's time to do an inventory of national cultural values: what we have left. We have to sell out the land from January 1st, 2005. I've already talked about privatization, trusts, savings. Is there any other value in Ukraine? Because we can see how everything is being boldly done by today’s authorities, what they are doing and how they are operating in Ukraine, perhaps already from those cultural values that our Ukraine has been proud of for the last tens or hundreds of years, perhaps there is nothing left. So we're going to talk about strengthening our actions at the border, our security forces in Ukraine, other law enforcement agencies. And Ukraine may no longer have the precious things that our people of Ukraine were proud of. In this regard, I would like to see you given or agreed with other law enforcement agencies, the authorities. Let's see, what's left of us in Ukraine is still valuable, if we've reached the ground, that we'll be selling it to foreigners soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Dry. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u156	Jaroslav Suhiy, Zaporozhye city, the deputy faction of the "Trudova Ukraine" political party. Dear National Deputies! We're not in this room for the first time. At the legislative level, we try to address an extremely important problem not only for the spiritual development of our people, but for the establishment of a legal state in our society -- the issue of export, import and return of cultural values. Why am I doing this? I would like to remind all of us, especially the people's deputies of Ukraine, of the previous call. Here in this sessional room, in 1999, a bill was passed, an identical law that can now be considered fundamental, which has to some extent regulated legal relations in this area. At that time, we felt that the 1999 Bill had solved all aspects and resolved them. Turns out, no. And there remained the unresolved problem that the distinguished minister spoke of. It's a problem of increasing state influence, government regulation in the area of exporting and importing cultural values. Bill number 4527, which I am sure will be supported by a session hall, provides not only for compensation for expenses related to the return of cultural values, but also for this. This has been emphasized by fellow national deputies, determined by the authorities of the State, who do not have the responsibility to carry out this difficult task of searching or searching for the cultural values of our people that have been exported or stolen. In this regard, it is quite clear that such an approach that meets the universal standards of law throughout the world will necessarily be supported in this room. There's a problem, and the minister was talking about it. This is a problem in the notes of our administration. It will need to be addressed in the drafting of this bill, and this problem is the uncertainty of the customs import regime. definition of the customs regime for import into the customs territory of Ukraine of cultural values. The parliamentary faction of the Labour Ukraine political party is calling for the support of this bill because it will benefit our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u158	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials! Dear people of Ukraine! I'm two-in-a-two against the adoption of this bill and I'll tell you why. First. I want you to remember what our President was admitted to in Germany recently. In order to sit with the strong of this world, a collection of the Bah Foundation had to be collected. To go to Holland, there was a Dutch collection, a Dutch collection. Who gave the right to do so? It's a national crime. Did the Ukrainians get us anything back? We have been returned to the Ukrainians by what is now being stored in the foundations and reserves of the Russian museums, our national shrines, cuneiforms, including Bogdan Hmielnickýk? Not returned. Seven, ten encounters with ties and no ties of Yanks, Kuchma, and Bears led to nothing. Nobody gave us anything back. What's more, second-class people didn't even ask the question, no questions and no public was talking about it. Next. What is proposed in this law? What is the serious return of cultural values smuggled into Ukraine? And article 31 is deleted, which was a progressive situation, and it was written, "All expenses associated with the return of cultural values are borne by the party that requires their return," and now it is deleted, now the cost will be borne by that party, and it has been written that they are exempt from duty, without paying the corresponding customs fees and assemblies provided for in Ukraine's legislation. So, honourable national MPs, I am firmly opposed to this approach. What the Security Service is doing, I don't mind, you can look at it and you need it. But would you please tell General Kravchenko whether that was the question or not? That was not the question of General Kravchenko. And although there are some positive points here, I would like this bill to be further elaborated. He's been reinstated, worked out. Let it be further developed and amended not only by the 31st article but also by the entire text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u159	Thank you. The discussion is over, please identify yourself. I'm voting on adoption on the basis of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values on the Powers of Law Enforcement, registration number 4527. Please vote. [[13:45:54]] For 237 Decision taken. There was an offer to accept him as the Law. Is there a denial? No problem. Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies "On the size of the statutory fund", the registration number of Law 4064, is being considered. Reports the Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Yuri Anatoliyovich. Prepare Slobodan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations as regards the size of the statutory foundation of society. This bill is drafted in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Minimum Wages for 2003. As part of the amendments to Ukraine’s laws, the minimum wage is applied to the calculation. At present, the minimum size of the statutory association fund with limited liability is defined by article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Society and is set at the multiple size of the minimum wage, based on the rate in force at the time of the creation of the economic society. This order of determination of the minimum size of the statutory fund was introduced by Ukraine’s law on December 16, 1993, to counter the decline in the size of the statutory fund of cooperatives in connection with inflationary processes in Ukraine. The inflation rate over the last two years is 104.1 percent. In addition, the minimum wage of five years has increased by 3.2 times, and since August 1, 2004, it has been $237. So there's a steady increase in the minimum wage over a short period of time. This, in turn, puts the subject of entrepreneurship at a disadvantage. The minimum size of the statutory fund for limited liability societies is set by article 52 of the above-mentioned law. It is consistent with which limited liability company creates a statutory fund whose size should be no less than the amount equivalent to one hundred minimum wages in effect at the time of creation of a limited liability society. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Economic Societies on the size of the statutory fund of the Society provides for the introduction of a limited liability for companies with a fixed minimum statutory fund equal to 20,000 dollars. We believe that this will contribute to the creation of a level playing field for business operators in setting up a business-based company with limited liability and at the same time prevent the introduction of illegal activities by some founders, as they are set to the extent of their contribution to the statutory fund. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council supports the possibility of making changes to the law as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u161	Thank you, Alexander Yakovitch. Dear colleagues, perhaps everything is clear, perhaps we will be determined? Oh, no? Well, then, please, a co-reporter from the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, Alexander Viacheslavovich Slobodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u162	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable National Deputies, Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy Management, Property and Investment at the meeting on 9 December 2003, reviewed the draft law amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Society, registration number 4064 of 28.08.2003, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in view of the insufficient justification for the need to establish a fixed size of the statutory fund of society with a limited liability of 20,000 dollars, instead of the current 100 minimum wages in force at the time of the creation of a limited liability association, the Committee considers it inappropriate to adopt a draft law amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations and recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u163	Thank you, thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, the question is clear. And please let the committee finish its position, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u164	So the position of the committee is that for business, for the economy as a whole, we are introducing stable rules of the game today. The Cabinet of Ministers has proposed minor changes: the fixing of 20,000 dollars to the statutory fund. Make it happen. Society with limited responsibility to make changes to statutory funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u165	Yes. Okay. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Yeah, 2 on, 2 on. Please, Melniczuk, follow him, Karmazin. Melniczuk microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u166	Microphone! Microphone! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The project proposes to determine the minimum size of a limited liability statutory association fund, not equivalent to 100 minimum wages, as provided for in the current edition of article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Society, but equivalent to 20,000 dollars. Of course, the difference is 23,000 and 20,000. But these are concessions, concessions, we're going to talk to those who create these societies. And these societies today and the small businesses and the medium-sized enterprises, we're going to say, this is the driving force that Ukraine needs today. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support this bill, even though the committee did not understand why I rejected it. After all, these are concessions to those people who want to organize something, to do it in Ukraine. Yes, it is, of course, the jobs that are absolutely necessary when we have this percentage of unemployment in Ukraine. So I think that's why Alexander Alexander Moroz has repeatedly expressed himself in support of medium-sized business, entrepreneurs and societies who today want to work in the country, but who are not yet allowed to work in Ukraine with numerical checks, numerical obstacles, and so on. But all of this will be until October 31st, after October 31st, everyone will be free to work in our independent Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Karmazin, prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u168	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Governmental Officials, and Honorable People of Ukraine! Why are these changes being proposed, that this will give the economy of the state what it will give to who? What is the 100 minimum wage today? By September 1st, it was 20500, after September 1st, it's 23700, which is even larger than it's going to be now -- 20,000. That's the first one. Second, it'll only give you one thing, what these entrepreneurs are going to call out and say, "You don't have a registered statute, let's go over here, let's reregister." So what do we want to do? The electoral days and so to those who live and survive, not because of the state, but in conflict with the state, are we still creating problems? Victor Yushchenka's and the Party of Protectors are strongly opposed to such approaches and the adoption of laws that give nothing. Who will sign this bill? The signature is "Victor Janukovic." Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! They want to keep you locked up all the time. Understand that. And I want to tell you, nothing that this law will do is as good as the previous one, which is now voted by the majority, glory to God, only in the first reading, will give nothing. And I'm asking you not to support this bill, it's better not to encourage our citizens, they're already poor and they're miserable. And God grant them to swim and sail when they win the election, indeed, the national president Victor Yushchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u169	Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction, behind him Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u170	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the positions are set out, the essence of the bill is understood. I just want to emphasize that this bill is a government bill introduced by the government of capitalist ministers. And when he's attacking some of the foundations of this bourgeois capitalist society, it's here in time to ask, who's going to benefit from it, who's going to benefit from it, and who's going to win. That's why we, the Communist faction, see this situation as follows. This is, above all, an attack on the interests of small businesses: the Chechens, former Soviet engineers, teachers, medics, who, under the circumstances of the capitalist restoration, were forced to change their place, their education and education and to go to these markets to make a living there. Is it appropriate to attack the existence of this type of population? I personally don't think they're responsible for this. And these coins are looking at the change in statutory funds on account of these types of population, and in my view and the view of the faction that I represent is not appropriate. This money should be found in other wallets. And to that. I'm not such a great specialist in making such final conclusions on the issue under consideration, but I have a few questions for the authors of this bill. You didn't announce it, Your Honor, and how this is being resolved in general in countries with which we are bordering on post-Radians space and with which we are making an agreement on a single economic space, what are the features of the solution there. At the same time, we are moving on to the European Union. In those countries with which we are bordering and which we have already entered the European Union and the European Community. How does this matter work out there? Finally, why do we attach ourselves to a minimum wage that is constantly changing rather than becoming attached to the cost of one ton of diesel? Or one ton of bread, prices of bread? Or 20-30 ounces of gold? So for now, this is our conclusion. This bill is not well founded. We agree with the committee's conclusion, and our faction does not consider it appropriate to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u171	Thank you. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u172	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'll tell you that whether we vote for this bill or not, there will be no special change. Why? The point is that the statutory fund is proposed for limited liability societies. In the meantime, increase the statutory fund itself. And the question here was, to some extent, that the situation of those who would contribute money to this statute fund is getting worse. Therefore, we need to be clear about whether this law will have reverse force. In my opinion, this law of retroactive force should not have, it should only work for the future, because it is a material law and, according to the rules of jurisprudence, it only works for future relations. That's one side. On the other hand, what about other associations? In addition to limited liability associations, there are full - time associations, other types of associations. So I support the committee's position that we have to solve this problem in a complex way. Even if we were to resolve the issue now by making changes to this law, the problem remains in general. The explanatory note says that this problem has to be solved in the Act on Shareholders, there are 30 to 60 percent fixed rates. But as far as I know, this law was repealed as early as 09.07.2003 and 27.05. In 03 C.E., there was still a decree that his Constitution was not in conformity. So actually, the problem remains. I think the best way to get out of this situation would be to finalize this bill and make the necessary changes to the Law on Economic Societies and the Act on Shareholder Societies if there is a need for other legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u173	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, we will be determined. The only thing I would like to point out is that, in fact, the law has lasted a year, and accordingly, there have been changes in the minimum wage, and that's why what's proposed in the law doesn't actually correspond to what this law predicted. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the Amendment Act to Article 52 of the Ukrainian Act on Economic Societies on the size of the statutory fund, registration number 4064. I'd like to make a statement. [[2:02:21]] For-153 The law is rejected. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0, Ukraine - 49, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 33, Deminiciatives, People's Government - 13, Labour Ukraine - 26, National Agrarian Party - 13, SPO - 1, Block Timoshenko - 0, Center - 0, Union - 13, NDP, OP - 4, Postfaction - 1. There is a bill to amend some laws of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Just two minutes ago, I announced that I was continuing our meeting for 15 minutes. You have to be careful. There is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. As reported by Auxentieus Yuri Anatoliyovich, head of the Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Prepare Yehanur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The adoption of the Ukrainian Act “to amend certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity” is the final act of building a regulatory balance for the implementation of the State Regulatory Policy. The main points of this arrangement are: firstly, to consolidate the National Programme for the Development of Small Enterprises as one of the main tasks of this programme; secondly, to consolidate in the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens, Controlling Entities, Their Associations, Scientific Institutions and Consultative Bodies in the implementation of the National Regulatory Policy, Principles, Factors for the Implementation of One of the Principles of National Regulatory Policy on the Balance of Interests of Citizens and States; thirdly, to implement the principle of public regulatory policy on openness for natural and legal persons, their integration of regulatory bodies at all stages of activities; and thirdly, to implement the principle of public regulatory policy on the openness of natural and legal persons. Thus, despite the technicality of the bill, this project essentially completes the building of legislative norms for the programming of the tools for the implementation of State regulatory policy. Please approve this bill, which will ensure the full implementation of the rules of state regulatory policy in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill that we are considering is prepared by the government to comply with paragraph 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Principles for State Regulatory Activities in the Field of Economic Activity. This bill aims to bring the legislation of Ukraine to the requirements of the law. He was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee supported the need for the adoption of such a law. But it was pointed out that the government had made a superficial approach to resolving the issue by proposing changes to only three laws and by making changes to a vast number of laws. There was no time. So some of these laws are listed in the conclusions of our Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. These are the conclusions given to you. The bill has been reviewed and supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information, on State Building and on Local Self-Government. Therefore, the members of our committee propose to return the proposed draft to the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to work on it, taking into account the comments and suggestions made and to re-read it. A draft decision of the Supreme Council is given to you. I'm asking you to back me up. Once again, colleagues, instead of the changes to be made, there are several minor changes there. So why do this? Rereading the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u177	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. I think it's clear to you, dear fellows. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities. Registration number 5312. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:07:22]] For-95 The decision is not taken. There was a proposal for a profile committee to send this bill for re-reading. Please vote. Take down the vote, please. Carmazine with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u178	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished government officials! The 19 laws still needed to be amended and proposed, which could be a rereading of the first reading? How could we say that today in the speeches, we would say that the bill is not even raw, it is just not there, there is the signature of the doctor of economic sciences Viktor Yanukovich, so this is such a proposal for a return to work was an offer, and for a re-first reading it cannot be supported because the law as such does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u179	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliyovich, but I think you don't see the difference between, for example, I don't see the difference between the machination term and the re-reading of the first reading, because once it's done, it's definitely going to go to the first reading. After we accept the re-first reading he goes back to the first reading, so I put the vote on sending the bill to the re-reading of the re-reading track. Please vote. [[14:09:13]] For 168 The bill is rejected. There is a bill to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on the implementation of the National Small Business Promotion Programme, Bill 5506 reports by the Head of State Committee of Avcentiev Yuri Anatoliyovich. Prepare Yehanur.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u180	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the implementation of a national programme to promote small business development in Ukraine, is fragmented into execution of the Cabinet of Ministers. The project is designed to amend Ukraine's laws in part by increasing the term of the national programme to 3 years. Today, national programs are being developed for one year. The preparation of the next year's action project starts at the beginning of the current year, which makes it impossible to take into account the results of these actions in the current year. Ukraine's adoption of a law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the implementation of the national programme has settled all the issues mentioned above. I will also add that the project was reviewed and approved at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. We agree with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please adopt Bill 5506 in the first reading and in its entirety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u181	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Yuri Ivanovich is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u182	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting, reviewed and supported a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on the implementation of the National Programme for the Promotion of Small Business Development in Ukraine. We believe that these changes will allow the development, execution, tracking and implementation of the measures envisaged by the national program. The main scientific expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supported the project, but it made a point with which we, members of the committee, and the government agreed. Taking into account the above. Attention! Adam Ivanovich, attention! The committee proposes to add to the bill after the words "for the next three years" the words "for the next three years." And with this right to adopt the bill as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u183	Yes. Now, now. Dear colleagues, I think let's be determined by the motive of the vote. Mironenko and Karmazin, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u184	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The faction of the Communist Party and including the candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents, Petar Nikolaevich Simonenko, believe that the programme will not work, because serious assistance to entrepreneurs, including small entrepreneurs who are now taking part in the protest, requires serious public support for small businesses and the economy as a whole. It's not there, and it's not there. Further, planning needs to be restored, economic regulation does not exist, privatization must be stopped, as regulation can be, and planning can be, only if there is public and collective property, not the domination of private property. And only by doing so, the President of Ukraine, I am convinced that this should be Simonenko Petar Nikolajevic, who will ensure the recovery of the economy, an increase in the standard of living of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u185	Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u186	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. I'm not going to end up President Viktor Yushchenko, that's understandable to everyone. I just want to say right now about the content of the law and the proposals. Dear Adam Ivanovich, please open a comparative table and you will see that the bill introduced violates the law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The previous text states that the programme is approved annually by the Cabinet of Ministers, and their budgetary funding is approved annually by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Law on the State Budget for the Year. It's just being thrown out. I firmly oppose the attack on the rights of the deputies of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council. You can write "up to three years," but you have to write "according to the Supreme Council's statement in the laws of Ukraine on the State Budget for the next year, broken down over the years, as Yehanurov suggests, but do it now in the first reading to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u187	Please, Puzakov, and we will vote. Please, dear fellows, suffer another minute. Puzakova microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u188	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, and long ago, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko had been given and suggested that it was not simply necessary to amend existing laws, but it was necessary to create qualitatively new legal acts taking into account the world's experience for the development of the Ukrainian enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-08-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of the National Programme for the Promotion of Small Business Development, registration number 5506. In the first reading. Please vote. Take off the vote, please. Dear colleagues, the first to vote is the draft law in the first reading: the committee introduces it, not the committee -- don't confuse yourself. Because even if the committee's asking questions about rejection, we don't put a vote on rejection -- we're asking about acceptance. If 226 votes were not needed, the bill was rejected. The proposal for a deviation shall not be voted on. And so please don't ever beat yourself up. The proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading is always put to the vote. If we get to the vote in the second reading, then we're going to make a proposal to the committee. For the time being, the draft Law on amending certain laws of Ukraine on implementing the National Small Business Promotion Programme, Bill No. 5506, first reading. Please vote. [[14:16:56]] For-154 Not accepted. Let us then vote in the first reading with the committee's proposal. In the first. That's enough. In the first reading of the committee’s proposal, which was made by Yuri Ivanovich, to break not for three years but each year separately. Please vote. With additions to the committee head for the time being. [[14:17:39]] For 168 That's how. But it's the same thing. So the project is rejected. Dear colleagues, thank you for your work. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. We work on committees and factions. Tomorrow morning the session started at 10 a.m. Good luck.
