ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can get started. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:44]] Registered -415 I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform Ukraine's National Deputies of the withdrawal of the National Deputies, Mr. Bauer Michael Josefovich and Mr. Drachev's Viktor Vasilovich, from the political party's deputy faction "Trudova Ukraine". I'm asking the leadership and the faction's asset to determine the further fate of the faction within two weeks. Because I understand that fewer than 14 MPs are joining the Hard Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We were about to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2004 on the financing of the President's election by re-voting on 26 December 2004. Let us postpone until the committee appears, apparently the meeting is still there. Is there no objection? None. Then let's move on to the simplified procedure. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by the draft Law on certain measures for the social protection of persons with disabilities as a result of the general illness resulting from the exemption from military service. The committee will report to Suškevich Vladimir Mihajlovich and to the authors of the Mironenko Viktor Andriyovich bill. Viktor Andriyovich, you have three minutes to prepare Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u2	5th Electoral District of Mironenko, Crimea, Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, distinguished members of the people, we have adopted a law with you concerning persons with disabilities who, in times of war, were involved in war and became disabled after the war ended, comparing them to persons with disabilities of war and that is fair. Why? Because these people have been at war under such terrible conditions and are now in such a difficult situation that they really need help. By analogy with the previous law, we have drafted a bill designed to give persons with disabilities the right to a general disease after separation from military service to free sanatorium treatment and monetary compensation instead of travel, as well as a 50 per cent reduction in railway, water and road transport between 1 October and 15 May. The distinguished people's deputies, there is a certain conclusion of scientific and expert management, I have learned this conclusion and I believe that, indeed, what is said in these conclusions not only requires attention, but I am also prepared to take those two comments into account after the adoption of the bill in the first reading, their only two comments from the Scientific and Expert Office take fully into account and submit to the second reading the bill in the form that they want to see, both the Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee being relevant. And I have already adopted my comments when the bill was being considered in a committee of profile. I agreed to these comments and ask for them on first reading. The proposal that it proposes to adopt will not allow for the adoption of the bill in the near future to be re-readed. Indeed, these people are now in difficult circumstances. Many of them have already reached the age of 70 and even more for some people. And they are in urgent need of our help. I ask all the factions that say that they express the interests of the people, to show now, in practice, really care for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u3	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević, Secretary of the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Suškević. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes that first and second group disabled persons be granted the right to free sanatorium treatment or financial compensation instead of travel. a percentage of the seasonal reduction for rail water transport between October 1st and May 15th. First of all, I would like to thank Viktor Andriyovich, the drafter of the bill, for his desire to increase the level of social protection of disabled people — former military personnel with health problems. This is necessary and necessary because people with disabilities really need help. But respectable colleagues and respectable Victor Andryovich, the question is that this bill separates a group of people and an environment of people with disabilities in general. At the same time, this general illness is not associated with military service. That is to say, there is no need for clarification in the bill about the conditions of disability. The number of people with disabilities in general is very high. Individuals who today are offered benefits are separated from the fact that this disability is related to military service. If, for example, disability could, for example, be associated with an illness, such as an unhealthy life - style or household injury, and today it is philosophically related to military service, that is, not essentially related, but the disability receives all these benefits. What, for example, can we say to women with disabilities who do not have these benefits as a result of their general illness? Today, we are simply systematically separating a group of people with disabilities from all persons with general illness simply because they were formerly nonmilitary, and their illness, their disability, is not related to this military service. At the same time, what I'm saying is that the standard that affects the provision of wheelchairs is already in the law. So it exists today, and it's almost repeating it, in the bill it just looks like a repetition of what it already is. What I'm saying is that today, of course, this bill is budgeted for a certain amount of money. And these costs must be properly aligned with what is involved in military service. In view of the fact that this correspondence with military service depends on the military service of the disabled is not included in the bill, our Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, the Committee on National Security and Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u5	Give your co - reporter an opportunity to complete his opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice, Minfin they are proposing today that the bill be finalized and then brought to us so that we can actually adopt a system-wide bill that solves the problems of people with disabilities who need to be resolved today. The committee proposes once again that the bill be reexamined in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u7	Yes, thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Four for, four against. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Oh, two for, two for. I'm sorry. On the board is the name of the national MPs, please show that they have been enrolled for the debate. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u8	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Human health is certainly the acquisition of a state. And as the state refers to human health, it is an indicator that is a state. It's an indicator and a democracy, it's an indicator and a humanity, if you want to know it, it's also a real face and a state, and a government, and a deputy. So I would like to separate this bill, which is certainly very small, but I would like to thank my colleague Mironka for paying attention to this aspect. I'm not sure that he should be accepted as a separate bill. Maybe it should have been installed in existing legislation, and, most likely, it is, but it went the other way -- it proposed a law of two articles. One was predicted by three aid options, one by an article, and the other by the law becoming effective on January 1, 2005. I'll start at the end. Can it take effect from January 1st? Obviously not. Obviously, this formula has to be written -- from the moment of publication, as we always write. Now, with regard to granting certain benefits to the disabled, the first and second groups who were disabled as a result of their general illness received relief from military service. So this is about the defenders of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to clarify three parameters that need to be worked out. I will stand by to adopt this law in the first reading and say that we need to work on it. What Suskevitch now said was right in fact, but he didn't say what it took to record the causal link between the passing of a military service person and the disease she then received. This causal link has to be established, written in the law is the main one. This is the first parameter. And the related parameter is the circle of people who can use these benefits. And the third parameter is the time when you can ask for the benefit so that you can at least calculate it, and we have to calculate it in the Budget Code and we have to calculate it to the government. These three moments, I would like them to be taken into account. I, of course, reject the approach that our government has taken, and the Honourable Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco, I would like to know this from former Prime Minister Janukovic. I'd like him to know: for this bill, the conclusion is: The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the bill is not supported and there is no proposal at all. Well, that's unconscionable, reverend. The disease does not develop in one year if it is serious. It doesn't develop in one year. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u9	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, please. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u10	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, dear voters! I think I have every reason today to express my gratitude to my colleague Victor Mironenko for raising such an important problem and preparing this bill. Justice should be noted that this category of people who have fulfilled their duty to the State and, for some reason or other, have been disabled as a result of a general illness since their release from military service remains unwarranted. I am deeply convinced that adopting such a bill will enhance the social protection of those with disabilities in the first and second groups. And let's face it: we don't create any special conditions for this category. The state simply repays their debts to them because they lost their health in the public service, fulfilling their constitutional duty to protect Ukraine’s interests. That is why they have earned the minimum benefits that the project provides. I understand that these benefits are meager. But I think people will appreciate them correctly. Because when we define them, we come out of our poverty, not our wealth. At the same time, I would like to agree with the colleagues who spoke to me about the need for clarification on some issues. First of all, the author would need to give a clearer definition of the circle of persons to which the act of law would be distributed. The proposed provisions would be able to benefit from the benefit, suggesting that all those who lose their jobs and in the past have served in the military. I think the author would need to write out more clearly those positions that determine the exact causal link between the military service and the receipt after it has completed the disability of the general disease. Because these are very important moments. And the splendor, the immensity of these situations can bring more misery to society than good. I fully agree with the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office that if the bill is adopted, there will be an increase in expenditure on different levels of budgets. Therefore, the deadline for this bill to take effect on January 1, 2005, as stated here, is unrealistic. Taking into account the comments made today, provided that the law will be adopted by 15 August 2005, its actual effect could be introduced from 1 January 2006. In view of this, I believe that today the project could be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u11	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region All - Ukrainian association of land and property owners. The Socialist Party faction will support the adoption of the bill. And I would like to thank my colleague, Myronek, for preparing this bill, we believe that it has been submitted on time and will protect the rights of military personnel and all those who need attention and who are subject to this bill or who will adopt this law. Of course, those benefits from sanatorium treatment, and 50 percent of the discount for rail, water and car transportation, and everything else, are very good. But every bill in every national MP has an example, and I have one for what we parliamentarians and national MPs would like to do, and we work and we work in that direction. What does the local authorities do after all this? I'd like to give you an example of the region of Ivano-Franco. I spoke three times from this rostrum to protect myself from being a closed garrison hospital for military personnel, for veterans, for participants in the Great War, and they were treated there. Three times he asked the former Minister of Defense of Marchuk, the answer is negative. And Mr. Vishevanyuk told me that the hospital was closing in on the opening of the Picture Gallery. And at the same time, he forgot that the disabled of the first group, the second group, the military, the veterans, the participants in the Great Homeland War. After that, his steps and actions were to go to Lvivsk, Montenegro, and be treated. So, I'd like to ask you the following question. However, while returning to the question that the Temporary Commissions Investigating Commissions, the law on them must be adopted so that we, with the right to control, the MPs of the people would give away to local leaders who were not for the Gallery of Picture, for something else, would close this hospital. But it must be, I'm sure, after December 26th. This hospital is going to work on the profile that he worked for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u13	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u14	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Legislators! It is unlikely that there will be a person in this room and outside this hall who, for example, would consider that the very title of a soldier, the mission of a soldier should be protected and raised on all sides of the country. Unfortunately, we don't have it in Ukraine today, and the military is abandoned, perhaps even at the very bottom of both the social and the psychological, and which you want. As a result, I warmly welcome the movement of my colleague Mironka, who came to this bill. And yet he will at least raise a little bit and, at least, the social status of those people who, not today, have once, but have served in the military service. This must be done. I think we're going to vote for this bill. However, it seems to me that we are now very honest, objectively approachable, discussing the draft of Peter Oliynik, and although he is of our faction, we all unanimously said that the law is sloppy, it is written so, you know, obsessively, and admitted it. I would also like to express some of my doubts about this bill, let's say. That is, in this sad social situation where our society, the removal or rise of one category, we should remember that this causes a major detonation in society, because there are indeed other disabilities, and I have to think and remember what their response will be. And it's also obvious that we need to think about and work out this law as far as it deals with other bills that we already have today, it's about the social protection of military personnel, and it's about the disabled. Because of that, let's say my recommendation would be, I don't know if you'd support it, like that. The bill needs this very much, I say again, its political essence and social essence is very high, to support, but to propose to the author to clean it up anyway, to give me my word, to lick it legally, to make it absolutely irreprehensible, and then you can vote for it. And I'm sure that'll add a little bit of confidence to our Ukrainian soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! The draft bill on certain measures for the social protection of persons with disabilities as a result of the general illness was completed after the discharge from the military service, now one minute, the head of the Committee of Cibenka Petr Stepanovich and the position of the Government on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we have two draft decisions, there's a draft decision that the draft bill makes and there's a draft decision that's being made by a professional committee. Respecting the opinion of the committee I lead in this case. I would, after all, like to ask my colleagues to support this project in the first reading, realizing that we're on the way back to re-reading. And the point is that people who have been released from military service who have given military service a long part of their lives very often, even after military service, they are disabled in general, their disability is linked to the duration of military service, so I would like to ask my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u17	Yes. Thank you, please, for the microphone. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Honourable National MPs, Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, supported by the legislative proposal of National MP Mironenko Viktor Andriyovich, aimed at strengthening the social protection of persons with disabilities as a result of the general illness resulting from the release from military service. I just don't agree with the proposed bill. By the way, this is in line with the decision of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, as well as the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. In doing so, we think it would be appropriate to make appropriate changes to Ukraine's law on the status of veterans of the military service and veterans of internal affairs and their social protection, since this is precisely the category of citizens. And by the way, there would be a way to learn how to develop everything that relates to this category and not just the health - related issues, not just the passage. And other issues that really need to be solved for this category of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The draft Law on certain measures for the social protection of persons with disabilities as a result of the general illness resulting from the exemption from military service, registration number 4610, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:27:04]] For 236 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 4 of the Business Act of Ukraine is being introduced. [[on drilling for amber]] Reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine, Shershoun Mikola Haritonovich, to prepare for the committee of the People’s Deputy, Majko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u19	Honorable national MPs, your honor's head. The adoption of this law is prompted by the need to resolve problematic issues regarding amber mining, such as the non-admission of illicit production and smuggling outside Ukraine. Large areas of expression distribution, closure of the area, forests, landings, distances from populated areas, easy access to handmade and hydromechanized development in a manner that leads to massive unauthorized drilling by private individuals, caregivers, and other entrepreneurial structures. The amber produced in this way is purchased by unregistered intermediate structures, and smuggling is exported outside Ukraine. At the same time, the government loses nearly 10 million dollars a year of valuable raw materials. The illegal development of amber, and easier theft, has long been no secret. The local authorities of executive power and self - rule cannot cope with this scourge. Therefore, it is suggested that entrepreneurship be legalized by drilling, previously creating a system of state - owned purchases of this mineral. Part two of article 4 of the Ukrainian Business Act defines a list of activities that can only be carried out by state enterprises and organizations. According to this standard, only state enterprises and organizations can produce amber. This bill is proposed in part two of the fourth article of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship to exclude the words "grass mining" and thus to regulate the issue of amber mining by subjects of all forms of ownership. And I want to draw the attention of the MPs to the fact that today what's being done on the Plains in this regard, we need to stop it. People get amber illegally. Appropriately, in government structures, they can't put this amber into purchasing structures. Then when we adopt this law, they have a license to sell at the same prices as intermediaries, and even at higher prices, they can sell to government purchasing entities. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. The adoption of this law will not have negative socio-economic consequences, as it is aimed at efficient use of the nadr and environmental protection, it will prevent illegal drilling and smuggling from being obtained from Ukraine. Allows you to create new jobs, increases your budget. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert body is mainly in favour of this bill. I propose to adopt draft Ukrainian law, registration number 5284, as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u20	Thank you, Mikolo Haritonovich. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Miko Vitaly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u21	Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, faction of the People's Democratic Party and Industry and Entrepreneurs. The committee supports this law. Moreover, I have worked in this area for many years, and I know that Ukraine’s vast wealth is being destroyed. There were days when the careers began to reveal these layers, which had amber in them, and hundreds of thousands of workers from all businesses and districts, and the areas there coincided with this spot of discovery and began to choose this amber. Some choose up to tens of kilograms an hour. I've seen this amber, I've seen this wealth, and I've always wondered how this state can't use and store this amber in the population. At the same time, when the purchase is being made at no cost to all who are not lazy. I think this law puts an end not only to the embalming of amber, but it seems to me that it has not yet been said that the nature of forests is being destroyed, because they are digging up everything that they can, just to get this amber without restoring these natural wealth of the country. So our committee looked at, supported, and asked for the support of this law as necessary for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u22	Thank you. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion? Yes, please, Karmazin, behind him Solomonine and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u23	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian Citizens! In accordance with article 13 of the Constitution, the earth. its nadra, located within Ukraine’s territory, the natural resources of its continental shelf, and so on, are subjects of the property rights of the Ukrainian people. I have never heard of such things, nor have I thought that legalization and the creation of conditions for those who steal today would be the best way to fight them. Knowing the situation over the years that took place on the Burstin special site, and there's a special police department. Maybe the reporter doesn't know, and I want him to know. The Special Police Department, which was even a front for the Special Prosecutor's Office, was called the Special Prosecutor's Office, which was responsible for the supervision of defence objects. And one of the first requirements laid down by some of the directors of enterprises that now have separate concessions was that President Kuchma be eliminated from this special prosecutorial office so that the state property could be disposed of faster than it was on defence. They almost did it. So I think we need to step up the fight differently. By the way, the prosecutor’s office was executed, and former prosecutor Kamarczuk Vasil Pavlovich, the general, was released. For three years he has sought justice in court. There is already a ruling by the Supreme Court, which has come into force legally, but as you can see, it is not enforced by any Attorney General, nor is it enforced by the President. Leonid Danilovich, you made a decision on Piscoin in one day. Why don't you take Camarchuk in one day, Leonid Danilovich? The question is rhetorical, but it has something to do with amber. So, honourable national MPs, I believe that the semi-precious stone that is amber is the acquisition of all the Ukrainian people, and the prevention of smuggling must also be fought through customs. And we have customs officers who have convictions, we don't just have prime ministers, our customs officers have convictions in the past. And I think that now, without taking all the measures to protect this property, by using it, it's just premature to pass such a law. So I think he's in conflict with the Constitution, and I'm not going to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u24	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u25	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I want to add a few words to the speaker who's already given, in general, a proper assessment of this bill. I want to add a few words and as a mining engineer of geophysics, as a person who has a professional understanding of exploration and mining. Today, indeed, this is a state matter of drilling for amber. But along with this, the inability of these state institutions to do so, and the poverty of the people who live in the Plainland, Volin region, who are trying outside the law to do so, but if outside the law, the construction goes along smuggled paths abroad. That's how the state tries to control it, and there are special forces in the prosecutor's office, in the police department, and so on. But this does not solve the problem. Because it's proposed in this bill to legalize such activities, to license amber. However, the Law on the Extraction of Certain Species does not provide for licensing of certain activities. And if this law is passed, it can't be put into effect and it's also proposed that all of this is controlled by the district government, along with the environmental management of natural resources. So this sandstone is to be thrown into the enamel of the district government. She's the one who's going to be controlling the production, and she's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to And those who are at the head of such an administration and the head of that administration who is to oversee it. That's what this bill is about. Without denying that this issue should be settled, I just want to say one thing that on the path that is proposed, it will not work. Stealing one another, small and smuggling was through one another. Now they're going to steal others on a larger scale and under the cover of this law. Therefore, this law is neither necessary nor possible, and I would like to remind you that there is a bill No. 5160 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the types of economic activity carried out exclusively by state enterprises, institutions and organizations. Without a joint consideration of this bill, such a bill, which is proposed, can no longer be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u26	Thank you. Those who wanted to participate took the floor. Let's be clear. Well, Melniczuk, give me a moment to vote. Melniczuk's microphone and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u27	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I don't have a minute. I've got three minutes on the Rules. I would like to support this because, Adam Ivanovich, what the Rules provide for a reduced procedure of 2 a.m., 2 a.m. Since the two deputies have spoken against it, I'd like to support my colleague, Sherschun. Indeed, this bill should be adopted on a basis and then further elaborated. And you have to say thank you to Colleague Shershun for taking this step to settle, at least to some extent, this question. The bill proposes to include a list of activities that can only be carried out by state enterprises. And we have to support it, you see, we don't just have to deal with it!Oh, my God!What happens to oil, gas, and others in the state? An example or witness when the members of the Czernovetsk District Council were indignant at the fact that they had the Lapushnian oil fields in the Cherniv region. Actually, there's not enough illegal activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u28	Let me finish. Let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u29	That oil production is illegal, but they don't pay taxes. This year alone, 40,000 tons of oil. The heart's been ripped out, isn't it? Ah, paying taxes in the Cherniewsky region doesn't want a piece of business because they're in Kiev. And as long as we're not in the state in this direction, there will be no explanation. So I think, based on the factions of the Socialist Party, the National Deputy of Shershun will support it. I appeal to everyone to support this bill. And in terms of reprocessing, for second reading, every national MP will have the opportunity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u30	Thank you. But, Mikhail Vasilovich, national deputy of Shershun, he is a strong man and will stand on his own feet, we need to support the bill that he is the author of. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 4 of the Business Act, registration number 5284. [[on drilling for amber]] Please vote. [[16:42:08]] For 184 Maybe for the first read again? I'm voting on re-reading the bill. Please vote. [[16:42:37]] For 215 Let the State deal with this important matter. Project rejected. There's a bill amending the Code of Pro Nadra, registration number 3520. [[about the charge for using the nagrass]] Author of the initiative Rudzikowski Mikolaajovich. I don't see him. From the committee who? Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u31	Yuri Solomatin. Dear colleagues! The bill, which is suggested for your opinion, refers to the class of those who process it and submit it to the expert, with professionals who know all the holes and dead in the kind of activity that they know. Let's mention with you how Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko in her time of oligarches from the energy complex dragged and rolled around all the corners, because she herself knows the matter very well and put them to some extent on the ground. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster reviewed and supported the bill in July last year and submitted relevant documents for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee supports this bill, it provides clarity and completeness in the interpretation of the Ukrainian Code of Nadra as part of the mandate to pay for the use of nagrass. It is proposed that the rule be laid down in law that the provision of the mentioned benefits is made solely on the basis of the laws of Ukraine. This is shown in the comparative table. In the opinion of the Committee, the adoption of the bill will promote orderliness and subordination in the decision on the granting of benefits. To some extent, the adoption of this bill should also contribute to the filling of the state budget, and thus to the increased financing of the geological exploration sector. The Ukrainian Supreme Council, the Committee on Fuel and Energy and the Cabinet of Ministers supported the bill. Therefore, a draft Ukrainian law amending the Nadra Code, registration number 3526, is proposed, taking into account that this bill relates to amendments to an article that can be accepted in general as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u32	Yes, please, is there a need to discuss? None. Let's just give another Committee on Budget Affairs an opportunity to make a statement and then we'll be defined. Please, the powder mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u33	Highly esteemed Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, is the fact that the charge for the use of the drama is a major source of filling the income part of the budget. So we certainly have the right to introduce this bill in the event of a successful vote only on 1 January 2006 in accordance with the 27th article of the Code of Budget. I would ask you not to accept this bill in any way right now as a whole, so that we can work out in case of a successful vote, because the price of beneficial mines, which are national assets, varies very much even within a year. Therefore, not only the Nadra Act but also other legislative acts, including taxation, can set charges for the use of nadra. Therefore, the bill needs substantial work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u34	Thank you. Then let's go from place to place for a minute. Carmazin, please, then Melniczuk. Two words, determined by law. And we want to talk for an hour. Please speak, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u35	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear national deputies, while we were with you on vacation in the summer, Krudprom privatized the silencer. Prices are up by a third. You know that. Which has led to a further increase in prices. This has all fallen on our Ukrainian citizens. Article 30 of the Code states that the standards of payment for use and the order of execution are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Now Rudzkowski is written: exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. That's very right. And that's why we have to adopt this law. And the fact that the benefits here were set up by the government is also something to be changed. I don't know if he'll be looking at the budget committee for long. I wish he'd look faster. Because I feel that this law will help me to make a substantial full state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u36	Please, Melniczuk, follow him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u37	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. I took the floor to support the bill and the deputies who supported it. The Socialist Party faction will support this bill because it will really have a significant impact on the income part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u38	Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u39	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, we've just been looking at a bill that, unfortunately, didn't go through about amber. And just past the will, I thought that the amber industry in Latvia and Lithuania was a colossal article somewhere in the second or third place. We've got it all rolling under our feet. It's exactly the same thing with mineral water and all the other underground stuff. I just wanted to point out that there's actually about two weeks left of this occupying power that actually put pockets on all of these. The minister’s office decided on the question of who to give the benefits to, who not to give the benefits. It's feudalism, forgive me. Here Solomonine is absolutely right in defining these categories there bourgeois and so forth. As a result, this bill must be voted on and introduced, and these benefits should be brought to the level of our normal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u40	Yes. Solomonine was mentioned quite positively. You're looking forward to it. And on the grounds of the vote, please, Matvienkov, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u41	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, this bill really requires implementation today, and it deserves attention. Because what the owners of the GOC are doing today has been privatized after these processes have been privatized, so to speak. You'll see "The Dry Balcony" today, the people's wealth that they have sells 50 bracelets to the middleman, and the middlemen realize 120, 130 bracelets. So the question is, where is this difference, and whose wealth, the wealth of the whole country, or the wealth of that immediate mediator? It is therefore necessary to review the price of naphtha today. And the Antimonopoly Committee had a long time to get into this situation and deal with it, which constituted a mechanism for pricing in those structures that worked on top and that used them for their useful purposes. In addition, I ask Adam Ivanovich to write down a protocol mandate for this bill so that the Antimonopoly Committee enters this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u42	Don't let him in. Yes, all right, put your hands down. The question has been discussed, and the question has been discussed. I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Code of Nadra. [[about the charge for using the nagrass]] Registration number 3520. Please vote. [[16:51:55]] For-182 The factions, please. Yes, "Our Ukraine" - 12, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 17, Communists - 56, Social Democrats - 0, National Agrarian Party - 12, Socialists - 20, "The One Ukraine" - 7, Tymoshenko - 15, "The Union" - 14, NDP, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs - 5, "The Centre" - 10, "Trude Ukraine", "Democratic Initiatives" - three, non-fractional - 8. Yes, please, Rudzkowski minute, he's the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u43	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! I'm turning to the faction "Our Ukraine." Please support this project. It fills the budget. You see, some companies use millions of delicacies of water without paying anything into the budget. We buy Coke more fuel-oil materials, they don't use natural water to pay for the budget. We have some enterprises that exploit natural resources with high profits and do not pay any excise duties. This bill will have an impact on the increase in income in any case. And the government will be working on it. I ask at least to support him for a second first reading so that we don't lose. This is supported by the Ministry of Finance, which has been discussed in the Budget Committee since the formation of the previous budget for 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! National MP Solomonine, please sit down and you're not a reporter. The reporter said his word. You acted as a co-reporter, and do not mislead the session hall and the people. Dear colleagues, note what this law refers to: the aid is now distributed to the government, distributed as it wishes to do so. The author of the bill suggests that this should be done, not by the government, but by the law. And the laws are passed by only one authority in the state -- the Supreme Council. And I'm convinced that if these benefits go through the session room, they'll go through fairly and quite narrowly, and, of course, then the budget will be filled into tens if not hundreds of times better than when the Cabinet of Ministers decides quickly in a single person, either as a prime minister or as a vice-premier or as a prime minister. So I don't see why we're opposed to the Supreme Council regulating this by law, not issuing it once again as a ransom to the officials who are going to, you know, you understand how to do it. That's why I'm betting on a vote. There is a proposal to vote on this bill. Who's for coming back and voting on this bill, please support. Vote. [[16:55:32]] For the 250. Thank you. I'm voting on the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Nadra, registration number 3520. [[about the charge for using the nagrass]] Please vote. [[16:56:03]] For 262 Thank you. No, there is a denial. There is no denying that in general as a law. Yes. Dear colleagues, some people already want to give these licenses, you see. But I think the Supreme Council will do that. The question is: a bill amending the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. [[on the exemption from taxation]] Registration numbers 3010, 3759. The Turkish and Bandurk national deputies report. Is there a Turkov? It's a busy revolution. Then, please, Bandurka Alexander Mironovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u45	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In our annual budgeting, we decided to exempt ourselves from the land tax, those territories occupied by military forces, by foreign troops, and by internal troops. When we accepted the 2004 budget, we identified only parts of the Ministry of Defence, territories occupied by the Defense Department. But the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Border Service were out. Then, by means of a separate law, we freed the State’s Foreign Service from paying the land tax. Now the deputies of Bandurka, Moysik and Bartkov are proposing to write in the third part of the first part of article 12 "except the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the internal forces, the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine," and beyond the text, "The Border Guards." It's about paying 0.2 prices per hectare, the average price per area, which is 18 million dollars per country. There's no such amount in the Department of Internal Affairs' fund. If we release that, then they will execute the budget. If they don't, they're going to tell us what we're going to do to give them this money, and we're going to have to put it in the budget. Because it's not supposed to. In general, these units are funded by only 63 percent. By the way, we have a committee on law enforcement. There's a bill on reforming internal forces, turning them into law enforcement. I also wanted to tell you that the Committee on Defence and Security, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, have no comments, and the bill is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u46	Thank you. Yes, please, from the profile committee and the agrarian policy and land relations of Odainnik Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u47	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Winnitzkin. Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Good day to you! Good health to you all! Happiness in Family Happiness! Today we are back to very pressing issues -- this is, again today, we are considering a few bills to amend the Ukraine Land Act. About the land pay. One of these bills is 3010, unfortunately there was no reporter today, the author of this bill. He proposes to amend article 12 of the Land Pay Act. Article 12 establishes a list of entities exempt from land taxes. Thus, in this article, Law 3010 proposes to clarify that religious organizations are exempt from the payment of land taxes and from the land areas they have obtained for the construction of religious buildings, including during the construction of works and construction, the construction of projects and the construction of religious and religious purposes. According to paragraph 5, article 12 of this Law establishes that religious or charitable organizations are exempt from paying land taxes in two cases where they are registered and are not engaged in business activities. Moreover, if we look at and read the bill ourselves, we will see that Bill 3010 is contrary to article 2 of the same law, namely the Land Pay Act. So the committee has reviewed and considered all of these motivations, and proposes to reject this bill as a violation of the very foundation of the Land Pay Act. Another bill is 3759, which the author has just reported. He suggests that the interior forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs be freed from payment for land as well. More specifically, this bill would like to compare the internal forces with the foreign troops and the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who have already received the benefits. Based on what has been said, and taking into account the fact that Ukraine's State Budget Laws annually exempt the listed units from tax pay, the Committee recommends the adoption of Bill 3759 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u48	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u49	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! There are several aspects of these problems, we've never encountered so much internal troops, as we have now seen during the so-called, orange revolution. I could never imagine that one of the most expensive cars in Volkswagen Taurech was ever used to move troops and special forces. But when he saw them riding in the dozens, he was very impressed. Why? It's one of the most expensive cars in which, having this characteristic of a parquet jeep. And of course, Alexander Markovich is right that internal forces need to be reformed, and we need to do everything we can to keep less land occupied today. The law on land payments has been established that land outside the population is paid, not for the purpose of taxing such land, but for the full amount of land. We accepted it here, didn't we, and then I'd like to ask, how are we going to fill the local budgets if we're letting everyone go now? How are we going to encourage them to reduce the number of polygons, the number of bases that are then rented? How will we reduce? No way. Let's think about the local budgets, and we don't want to think about it. Instead, where the question is that a religious organization that has built a temple there, we can't reduce their wages and introduce them, so let's say that it also has a strong impact on the income part of the budget. In those cases, if the military, including the internal absolutely loving foreign, internal, armed forces, use the land for a purpose, they do not pay taxes. If they are not used for purpose, they should not be used for these benefits. So I'm not going to support a bill like 3759, and instead I'm going to support Bill 3010, given that today, faith in a god will help reduce the number of law enforcement units because there will be charity in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u50	And thank you for such a wise response. Please, Solomon. Nobody insists anymore? Melniczuk still wants, okay, and Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, our faction has thoroughly considered both bills and has clearly defined their relationship to these bills. We will not support Bill No. 3010 or Bill No. 3759 for the following reasons. Bill 3010 provides for exemption from taxation on land by religious organizations. Religious organizations are social organizations. And whether it touches or does not touch this proposal, for example, organizations of disabled people, veterans, other social organizations, finally the public organization, but there are also political parties that do not have the right to entrepreneurship. Why don't we get rid of the tax pay, the land if the political party built something small, like one of my colleagues was talking about a small church in a small area. That is why it proposes such an exception, which may also serve as a basis for a chain reaction to further proposals regarding the granting of such a right to all without exclusion from public organizations. And as for the 3759 bill, almost everything is already said under those underwater stones that exist in it. And I'm going to remind you, and I'm only going to talk about one more of these underwater stones. These units, which they are talking about, are doing a will or a slave to a certain economic activity, even have quarries on which people who are deprived of their freedom work receive some money. Why, in such a case, when this land, on this earth, is engaged in farming activities or seems to be leased, why such units should then be further exempt from land tax payments. So we need to look more closely at the proposals made by the authors of the 3759 bill on all sides, which will allow us to see and see whether their ownership of this amount of land is appropriate if they complain that they can't pay the tax for it. I therefore propose not to support such bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u52	Please, Melniczuk. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u53	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear friends, if we are to consider this question on the basis of whether we should give benefits or not, we need to find out one thing for ourselves: how, in this case, parliament can replace local self-government by adopting these two bills. We understand that there are acts of the Ukrainian Land Rent Act today, and that is why we need to adapt to this law. If this is some military part of the internal army or something else located in the territory concerned, the appropriate council would have to make a decision on this matter. Either a payment for the land, or a free payment for the land at all. What about religious organizations and churches, and so on, is that I was definitely in the Chernigiv region at a meeting in one village, and I was approached by my father and really turned to them for building a church, but the village council made such a tax on that land that they couldn't collect to pay the tax, not to build a church. For this reason, it is certain that these two bills could somehow strengthen and influence the solution to land payments. And I don't think that 1,400 hectares of land that are going to be freed from payment in internal troops today will, we'll say, have a significant impact on budget yield. This is true of religious people. So the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is always against getting someone released, but in this case we've decided to support both bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u54	Yes, please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u55	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkla, Viktor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". So today we are looking at two seemingly opposite objects to which we want to pay the benefits. On the one hand -- the soul, the church, the faith, on the other hand -- the brute, the gift, the military force. I want to speak to my fellow national MPs right away, and I think we have to come to him, if not today, in the very near future. I tried the Internet once to get what amount of benefits there is in Germany and for the people and for the participants in the business, the state structures and so on. It turns out that in Germans rich in Germans who are already counting on World War II today with Europe and not just Europe, they have three and a half percent of the benefits. We have about forty percent. And we are the benefits, the benefits, the benefits, the benefits, and the benefits. I am convinced that the budget needs to be budgeted for both the army and the internal forces, and that they must be budgeted, and that they will pay everyone equal. Then let the commander of the military, the minister of the interior, think of keeping them a huge range or stadium, or placing the military in a small area and paying less taxes. Well, that's exactly what life will require. That's why I can't support this draft military bill. As far as religion is concerned. It's probably going to take into account a certain guilt of the state that for so many decades we've been priests, well, a system of priests, so to speak, and persecuted, that's kind of like a little penance. But with such an opportunity, I would like, on the other hand, to turn not so much to the shepherd as to the priests: but don't you go, at last, into this policy! Do not leave the dirty traces that are there. That's what I'm saying, I've been showing on television a Donnie icon, where I've been painted among the saints by a well-known candidate of the people's deputies. I'm holding a scary one, I can't believe it's been released. Yeah, well, Yanukovich, I mean him. The Presidents, yes. Look at what the clergy say: "The President's Justice is the strength of the Uniats and the Popes, the destruction of our traditions, rituals and the people's soul. If he comes to power, the Orthodox Church will face a severe test." Is that what crazy people write? However, Yushchenko built a temple in his village on a huge hill, a temple for the Moscow Patriarchate, if that was the case. What do you write, priests, where are you drawn to? And the law must be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u56	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Land Tax Exemption, registration number 3010. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:14:47]] For-149 The bill was rejected. But you can see. Well, let's show it to Karmazin. Please, by the factions. “Our Ukraine” - 75, “Ukraine” - 3, Communist faction - 0, SDPU - 18, National Agrarian Party - 14, SPU - 19, “One Ukraine” - 2, “Timoshenko - 4, “Soyuz” - 0, NDP and PPTU - 4, “Centre” - 5, “Truling Ukraine” - 0, “Deminicatives” - 0, “Fiffection - 5. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Land Tax Exemption, registration number 3759, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:15:48]] Z-70. The bill was rejected. Yeah, we've got some more land to figure out. There is now a question about the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Land Paying and Cancelling. Registration numbers 2490, 2490-1, 3073, 4253, 4499. We're going to vote now. Please, Demyohin, please. Prepare Artemenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! This bill has been drafted to fulfil the responsibilities of my constituents in the Herson region and in Herson. The thing is, you probably all know that Herson is the Dneper Delta. And this delta has a large number of islands, a large number of bays, a cove. And there's a lot of food in these islands. These plots were still distributed at the dawn of Soviet power. And it's clear that today, when our fleet is in a very bad condition, people are getting on boats. They're little fun, motorboats. But there is a violation of the rights of the owners of these boats. I'll give you an example. For example, the motor vehicle has much more benefits than the landowners of a boat park. And the proposals in this law, add to the "personal means of transport of citizens", add: "communities of owners of small boats for the storage of personal boats of citizens". So we're talking about small crafts, we're not talking about yachts, we're not talking about boats, we're talking about elite class. There is a comment by the Scientific and Expert Office, which relates to the date of the introduction of the Act since 1 January 2003. I would very much like to adopt the law as a basis, and, of course, we will be proposing on second reading - 1 January 2006, in the new, next budget process already. The draft alternative draft number will be reported. In general, the authors have no dispute in uniting these two laws. I think my colleague will talk about it now. The second reading should be further developed in the light of comments. And it's a very important moment. We keep talking about how local councils will be filled. Yeah, there's a little something here, so to speak. But think about it, if we went to a meeting of vehicles for cars, why can't we take the same step towards owners of small craft. Even so, if we streamline this activity, believe me, the benefits will not fall, we will not fall from the mountain into the local council, we will simply get enough traffic out of the shadows, so to speak. I urge you, my dear colleagues, to support it on first reading and we will finalize it at the next session, taking into account the comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyovich. Bill 2490-1 reports Yuri Anatoliovich Artemenko. Get ready, Pehoti.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u59	Thank you. I would like to continue what colleague Vladimir Demehin said. What is it? Our bills, they are almost the same and the Legal Office even proposes to unite them, because they also make a single project. What is it? Once again, what Vladimir Demehin said. If we said "A" and gave benefits to garage cooperatives, given to cooperatives, there is no distinction between granting this little benefit to people who have parking spaces for small boats. Again, it is not about yachts, because these yachts stand on the roofs there or somewhere near their own houses, but primarily about the protection of pensioners and low-income citizens, i.e. people whose wages for storing boats are considerable. I would not like to talk here about the following bills, which will be considered immediately by 5 all together, because there is already another logic. I mean, we're out of this structure, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, we're out of it, And it seems to me that it has been inappropriate to introduce, say, the subject of release or concessions to the ground, to bring in swans and cancer and rattling. Therefore, the proposal is as follows: to vote first on the Demjohina Bill, if he does not vote, my bill, we do not claim to be author here and, firstly, with one minor clarification that we, as authors, agree that the introduction of these laws will be effective 1 January 2006, when the budget committee may elaborate the necessary details. Please support Bill 2490-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u60	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Infantry. I can't see. Hara. Frenchman Anatoly Romanovich. I can't see. From the committee, please, then. Mikola Mikolaiovich, please, on all drafts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u61	Mikola Odynik. I introduced myself to you again. You know, I've already said that there are several bills today to amend the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. And I think these questions will continue over and over again. Why? Because there's some kind of bill coming through, and there's other people picking on it. Just now, the authors said there's no benefits to the parking lot, there's no benefits to the boat. My proposal in general, I think we will gather and cancel all the benefits to make such discrimination, the attitude towards the land that is today, to our sanctuary, not to be at all. As far as these bills are concerned. Here are five bills, and the two bills tell what they represent. I'll briefly say what the other three bills represent. The Law 3073 proposes that the land of enterprises carrying out drinking water supplies, plumbing, water funds, and pipelines be freed from payment. As in the first case, the committee believes that the adoption of this bill will cause considerable damage to local self - government. That's why both the previous two and this bill are being rejected by the committee. Bill 4353. What does he propose? What is proposed in this bill? The bill proposes to exempt businesses from land payments that distribute national and national television and radio programs. The committee believes that if you really freed up, it would get that the principle of equality would be violated and even I would say that I would rebuild some tax discrimination. On the basis of this, the Committee proposes that the Supreme Council reject the bill. As for the 5th Bill 4499, which proposes to exempt those specialized sanatoriums, institutions of culture, science, education, health care, social security, physical culture and sports that are financed by the state budget, I think that if they are financed by the state budget, they will be granted grants, not my opinion, but the Committee's opinion, but they should all be on equal terms and pay for land in full. All these five bills the Committee proposes to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u62	Thank you, Mikolayovich, all clear, do we vote? Yuri Anatolyevich, back us up. You can't, so let's hear it again. Carmazine, please. All speakers give an opportunity to speak for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u63	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, you understand five bills, and they all make sense, so, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I understand you want to look at it more quickly, but let's look at how we look at it. So Bill 2490, you've heard that is reported now, and Bill 2490-1 can only be accepted with the observation made by the Scientific and Experimental Department. Why? The science-expert department is obviously from what the Party of Protectors of the Motherland comes out of, protecting people. We come from the fact that boats and boats are big differences. We have boats and boats that have not one million worth. And they're both standing in Odessa and in Herson and in Kiev. And what are we going to spread on them? So let's not spread these standards on them. So they're going to write it this way: by the company of the owners of the small craft. [[rowboats, motorboats]] It is clear that these are poor people, those who really need to get to the cottage and so forth. When it comes to oligarchs, let them pay for the full program. I'm sorry. They have money and can share more with the people, including for such objects of luxury. With regard to the exemption from land taxes on companies that make drinking water, I absolutely agree with the committee that this has to be rejected, because there is absolutely no calculation as to how this will reduce the tariffs on water services. Moreover, the example of Odessa when these things were privatized and the completely profitable sector was privatized. Now it is just a state - owned enterprise, at a time when there is an unstated form of property. This is a clear violation of article two of the Ukrainian Property Act, which declares the equality of enterprises of all forms of property. Also regarding Bill 4499. I'm also in favour of rejecting it because it won't cost the local budgets again. Thus, the bill 2490 and 2490-1, submitted by the National MP Artemenko and submitted by the People's Deputy Demjochin, are practically uniform. Both can be accepted by unifying them, by voting either in turn or together. Other bills should be rejected as violating other laws and principles, the basic principles of self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pay is put to the vote. Yes, come on, Chernewsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u65	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetski. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that criminal cases against me have come to an abrupt end, that five of them have stopped immediately with the arrival of a new, well, with the victory of the people's power in Ukraine, right? First of all, it's cool! I think people like me are going to get a lot less pressure. So businessmen, don't worry, support Yushchenko in the elections, it's very important. And secondly, I want to say that, in principle, under the bill that Mr. Artemenko has passed on to me, I cannot, because I respect him, say nothing wrong, but I have such thoughts on this. We've got a lot of yachts that aren't even abroad by 10 million and 20 million. I'll give you a dollar and whatever it takes. I believe that in this law we must cheat more of those who have such expensive yachts and not pay the pensioners. It's the only thing that can be clarified in this law. Perhaps, on the basis of support, and in the rest of the decision, pensioners, war participants, persons with disabilities, should all lose their wages for an unhappy boat of two and all others to pay in full. And second of all, I want to remind myself. With the victory of the people, I look forward to the good election of President Ukraine that the main problem that the Supreme Council will have to solve immediately after the victory of Yushchenko in the elections will be to deprive the Cabinet of Ministers and all the rest of the country's ministries and organizations that buy daily at the expense of the Mercedes people, airplanes and all kinds of tobacco, and so on. By the way, Mr. Gurenko's committee has never received an answer to my bill. Well, there's something the Communists don't support me to give the people the money they want. I can't even figure it out. It's very important. Yeah? By the way, about that. And the boats buy these evil things. I'm asking everyone who listens to us, these are the very ones. electors, ask Communist Gurenko to actively support my bill on the committee so that it can pass through the Supreme Council more quickly and we will return to the people the billions of dollars we have seized, which we can return to our savings books.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u66	Yes, thank you, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Let's put to the vote a bill amending the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. [[on the granting and cancellation of benefits]] Report, registration number 2490. Please vote. [[17:32:37]] For-81 Maybe one more time? I'll bet you one more time. Who's in favour of putting this bill back on the table first, please vote. [[17:33:04]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Project rejected. It's a vote, registration number for bill 2490-1. [[17:33:31]] For-84 Overruled. Again? Well, I'll put it to a vote. Who's in charge of re-voting 2490-1? I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:33:57]] For 115 The bill was rejected. Bill 3073 is on the vote, please identify yourself. [[17:34:23]] For the five of us. Bill number 4353 is on the vote, please identify yourself. [[17:34:51]] For two. It's the draft registration number 4499, please identify yourself. Yes, take down the vote. Please, Suškevitch, with motives, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u67	My dear colleagues, I note that this bill eliminates benefits for the specialized sanatoriums of Ukraine, for the rehabilitation of the sick. It's not about boats anymore, it's about these. So I'm very much asking you not to support this bill. Don't support it, don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u68	A bill with registration number 4499 is put to the vote, please identify yourself. [[17:35:58]] For-0 In this way all the laws are rejected, and thank God. Dear colleagues, be careful. Do you have any powder? Please take a peek, Dusty, 'cause. technical issues. You will recall that when we made decisions related to the re-voting on December 26th, we gave a protocol commission to the Budget Committee to prepare, in accordance with the Government, for the preparation of changes and to introduce a draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 on the financing of Ukraine's presidential elections in the re-vote on December 26, 2004. The Ministry, specifically the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Profiles have carried out our mission, so we are now listening to this question. Please, Deputy Finance Minister Jaremenko Alexander Stepanovich, please, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 has been prepared to implement paragraph 3 of the Ukrainian Final Provisions Act of 8 December this year on the specificities of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. To this end, the cost of the election of the President of Ukraine is proposed to increase by 27 million dollars. In addition, taking into account the Government’s decision to increase public officials’ salaries, it is also proposed to increase the cost of work with the Central Electoral Commission’s employees by $350,000. Taking into account the redistribution of expenditure on the Central Electoral Commission as a whole, the expenditure provided for it in the State Budget is increasing by 15.7 million dollars. This increase in expenditure is proposed to ensure that individual public budget costs are reduced, which will not be met by the end of the current year, including payments for payments for decisions taken by foreign jurisdictions resulting from the handling of cases against Ukraine and the granting of credit for the production of forms in maritime, river and identification documents. It is also proposed to reduce the individual costs of the Central Electoral Commission, such as capital repairs, unused expenses for the election of Ukrainian national deputies and the creation of a single national register of voters and the sole electronic information system "Elections". The adoption of the bill will ensure that the elections of the President of Ukraine are held at the proper level. All these proposals are in agreement with the Committee on Budget Affairs. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u70	Yes, thank you. Thank you, Alexander Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to speak to the head of the profile committee, Prašenko Petr Aleksiyovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting today, the Budget Committee considered the bill and unanimously supported it. We will not say that the first budget request of the Central Electoral Commission amounted to 100 million dollars for the re-vote on December 26. The government has carefully processed the proposals of the Central Electoral Commission, identified only the necessary ones that will be directed directly to the organization of the vote. The vast majority pay for the work of the district and district election committees. Expenditures directed directly to the organization, voting, printing of ballot papers, printing of hard-core certificates, and organization of elections. Therefore, the Committee on Budgets decided to apply to the session room, to all members of the national parliaments, asking them to support the bill. We are confident that if it is signed, this money will help to maintain quality, without falsifying the President's election on December 26. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u72	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! You've figured out what the cost is. These costs go to those people who will be involved in electoral, regional, territorial, well, and correspondingly the Central Electoral Commission, but also pay the wage. So let's vote. A storm, please, a minute of motive. And Zibenko and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u73	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Adam Ivanovich! I only ask one request. Not long ago, a large number of people in the National Assembly called on people who had come under the flags of the Orange Revolution to be transparent and honest. I believe that if today is a matter of voting for the allocation of funds for activities, this process of voting should be transparent and honest, and everyone should vote. Whoever opposes is entitled to this position, who is in favor, too. But I ask you very much, Adam Ivanovich, that you send Mr. Yvchenka for your cards. Because it is a higher form of cynicism to vote not only in its faction but also in another faction. If that's the norm, I don't know where we're going at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u74	I'm asking the national deputy Yvchenka to comply with Shurmi's request. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u75	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. I wanted to speak to Deputy Minister Jaremenko Alexander Stepanovich with such a question. Obviously, the faction’s vote will also depend on the answer. This is about the fact that the recently acting prime minister of Ukraine stated that more than 100 million dollars are on the electoral commission's accounts. Are they done, or does the situation include the sums? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u76	Please, Alexander Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u77	Dear Peter Stepanovich! Dear National Deputies! In fact, there's some money left over, the ones you're talking about, but a lot of them are already distributed and actually today the cost savings are 37.6 million dollars, plus what I'm talking about, the internal reserves of the Central Electoral Commission, we've taken this into account, and so for the Central Election Commission elections in the current year it takes 64.6 million and 42.4 million in the next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u78	Yes, dear fellows, we are now voting for a small sum, it's clear that the Central Electoral Commission calls the numbers 150 and below 200 million and so on and so forth. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the funds that Peter Stepanovich reminded them that they had actually stayed and allocated such an amount rather than the huge appetite, apologize for the non-parliamentary word that he had invited on another occasion, was invited by the Central Election Commission. Not Kiwalov. Kiwalov is gone, Yuri Anatolyevich, but you're a little behind this. You don't live together, you do. I am voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 on the financing of the presidential election of Ukraine in the re-vote on 26 December 2004, registration number 6403, please vote. [[17:45:15]] For 312 The decision is taken, the law is passed. You can go to the factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 96, "Regions of Ukraine" - 15, Communists - 55, Social Democrats - 0, Agrarian Party - 21, Socialists - 20, "One Ukraine" - 19 Timoshenko Block - 18, Union - 7, NDP industry and entrepreneurs - 14, Center - 11, "Trudova Ukraine" - 10, Democratic Initiatives - 5, non-fractional - 21 So we did everything we had to do. Now it's about the voters. There's a draft Act on Supplementing the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Agricultural Development 2001-2004 on Agricultural Technology. Registration number 5451. Shevchenko reports Alexander Alexandrovich. I don't see Chewchenk. From the Calinchuk Committee, please. Yes, Tomic. We're not carrying anything. We carry it in such a way that no one else will ever see it. From the committee, who's ready to report? Then at the next session, we will listen if this is the case with the bill. The draft Law on the Supplementation of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Authorisation of State Environmental Protection Institutions is being complied with. Registration number 5137. Reported by National Deputy Dove Alexander Volodymyrovich. Prepare Malinowski from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences has significantly limited the activities of State inspectors of Minecology, State authorities of fisheries and fisheries, public inspectors in the field of nature conservation. But it also conflicts with a number of other laws. Thus, Ukraine’s Forest Code lays down the State’s control over the conservation of forests on Minecology, article 26. However, according to the Administrative Code, State inspectors of Minecology have no right to draw up protocols on any of the 16 types of administrative offences in the area of forest protection provided for in this Administrative Code. In fact, the protection of the forests of Ukraine remains out of state control. The Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting, article 39, also conflicts with article 255 of the Ukrainian Administrative Code, which does not give civil hunting inspectors and public environmental inspectors the right to file protocols for violations of the hunting rules. This is article 85 of the Codex. The civil environmental inspector under article 255 of the Ukrainian Administrative Code has the right to draw up protocols on the destruction or damage to the green plantations of populated areas, on the cruel treatment of animals, on the violation of the rules on waste storage, but imagine that the State Inspector of Minecology does not have the right to do so. The officials of enterprises, institutions, organizations that carry out protection, use, reproduction of the animal world, are jegers, heads of hunting farms, and others mentioned in Article 255, paragraph 8, are generally deprived of the right to draft protocols for administrative violations in nature conservation. It is not clear why public inspectors of the Ukrainian Society for the Conservation of Nature have been deprived of the right to draft such protocols if they have previously had such rights. Such restrictions greatly impede the State’s conservation services and the protection of the nation’s natural resources against looters and poachers. What calls for the adoption of the bill? So it's about making changes to article 255 of the Codex of Ukraine. I could, as the author of the bill, agree with the findings of the scientific research office. In this regard, I think that they, these remarks that were made in the second reading, could be taken into account today to adopt this law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u80	Yes, thank you. Please, from the Committee on Legislative Protection of Malinovsky Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, you can agree with the drafter's statement on many issues. But the thing is, this bill, it doesn't even have a correlation table. He may need to determine what to supplement, what to change in this bill. Therefore, the committee, after a careful consideration of the bill, decided to recommend that it be sent for further re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u82	That's what they're doing on the committee. Yeah, maybe we will. Carmazine's here too. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u83	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, if it were as simple as the committee said today to send for work, it would be very simple. We've spent a lot of time with you to have the bill distributed, registered, distributed, discussed. This time is no longer to be spent. This is the first time. And second of all, I like the idea that's in the bill. What it's done isn't on the right level yet, well, that's another question. Learn, Mr. Dove, I thank you so much for raising that question, because it's very important. The public forest inspector has the right to file protocols on the destruction of wildlife, the Carpathians have already been destroyed, the Crimean Mountains destroyed, and all the forestism on them. That's why we need to protect the country, including in this way. The civil inspector of the conservation authorities is empowered by the bill to draw up protocols on violations of the rules on the use of animal products, the manufacture and sale of prohibited tools for the acquisition of animal or plant objects. Now it's a shocker, and so on. Is that supposed to be taken or not? We have to accept it, and the technical legal argument -- let's work out this bill, we can work it out, believe me as a lawyer. But the political one has to be accepted. So I was surprised that the committee was simply rejecting it. Yeah, sure, trouble here. There's no chart, there's no other table, there's a lot to find. But does the Code of Laws on Hunting and Hunting provide? He'll see to it. The Forest Codex. 26th, is this possible -- government control and control that's being carried out, including by public departments? He'll see to it. So let's take everything better without wasting that time, Adam Ivanovich. That's the first one. The other one. I'm paying attention to both our government and our so-called scientific and research institutions, including the Supreme Council: how many amendments can we make to the Ukrainian Code of Law on Administrative Offences? This year, it's probably a hundred changes, we're making. Well, unless it's a rational use of our time as national MPs, we can't systematically approach this bill, make all the proposals and completely review it. It's a long time ago, since 1984, it's time to shake this code. So, honourable people's deputies, I'm addressing the committee of Moysik Volodymira Romanović: Vladimir Romanovich, let's rework this code completely and not make any small projects. And this project needs to be supported, even though it may be presented by a representative of the ideology that someone is representing from another committee. Let's take the best in projects and see that people want to protect nature, fish, animal world, and ultimately our environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u84	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But please don't use your professional expressions like "shuffle" in Parliament. Dear colleagues, please give me a minute, Solomon. Melniczuk later.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u85	Yuri Solomatin, secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Dear colleagues, our committee has been accompanying this bill. But this bill and the problem that it raises to the level of national importance, it exists. And our committee is very positive that such a problem has been brought to the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee supports this bill. And not only does he support, but he also thanks the Ukrainian national deputy, Blue Alexander Volodymyrovich, and those young conservationists who gathered around him and helped him create these bills. I very much ask our committee to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u86	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk's microphone, one minute. And Yavorowski is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u87	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear friends, dear Adam Ivanovich! We need to support the Dove People's Deputy. Indeed, the bill may need to be redrafted. But please tell me, how many bills do we adopt and then work on? The very ideology of the bill is perfectly explained. Because what's going on, really, as Comrade Carmazin said, we have in the Carpathians, and what's happening repeatedly, and I've been out of this rostrum, and what's still happening here today, both in the Carpathians, and where only in our country. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to protect that nature and that wealth that is now the acquisition of our Ukrainian people. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, Yavorowski. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! No matter what the indecisiveness of this piece of legislation is, I'm just going to support it and vote for it. I think my voters are going to tell me, they're just going to thank me very much, because what's going on in my district is the Yavorov district. The colossal, most precious species are cut off, today, trees are cut to shreds and sold to Poland for a penny, and in two, three months they are returning in the form of colossal expensive furniture and so forth. Because of this, I am absolutely convinced that we should have made this rule worse long ago both in this hunting field and in the conservation field. Absolutely at the right time, because I'm in the district, you can imagine, I also have military forestry, which is completely out of control. They are cut off as if they were building something or military training, and they are exported by whole groups abroad with the highest value.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u90	Thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, but if I'm not mistaken, the Javorovsky district is still in Lviv. Yavorowski! Oh, your name is Yavorowski. I understand what you'd like, I understand. Please, on the grounds of the vote of Kirilczuk and Hinzburg. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u91	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Kirilchuk. Alexander Ivanovich, really, the idea is a good one, the faction will also support it in the first one, because this is where we have to put the majority of the votes, because we have to put order here. What is the need for this order? Today, the local authorities have given much to rent, and the woods, and ponds, and lakes, and there are practically poor people who are not allowed — either public or private. Because of this, the idea is good, but the law needs to be seriously worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u92	Please, Hinzburg, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u93	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm so jealous of some MPs who are still hoping that the law that they're going to adopt or we're going to adopt will work in the interests of protecting our native forests and the year. And I don't believe that, because there are a lot of laws today that just don't work. Beresh, for example, is fishing for the same fish. She's smothered in the water, destroyed. The inspector comes in with this protocol and says, "I have a protocol." And he gets a gun or whatever he's got and says, "Let's get out of this, because I got your protocol, you know how?" I'm analyzing. As an MP, I have been approached by inspectors in both the forest and the water. And there must be some way in society that we need to protect the rivers and the lakes and the forests, because that's all we have, the state. And we've already led to the fact that we don't know what we have, whether we have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u94	Thank you. Let's be clear, dear colleagues, but I'd like to make one point. Speaking from the committee, the national deputy Malinowski said that the committee was proposing to send him back for his first reading. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 11 / 06 In 2004, maybe it's a little long ago, so Malinowski forgot, says quite another thing -- to accept as a basis. So, honourable colleagues, when you speak on behalf of the committees, you have to argue with the committee, and then you have the right to say that the committee feels that way, but I'm making my own personal statement. Please say exactly what the committee accepts. That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Supplements to the Code of Administrative Offences in the first reading. [[Registration number 5137]] Please vote. [[18:00:55]] For-179 Dear colleagues, there are some who have not been informed, let us vote. 179. One more time, who's in favour, one more time, we're voting, then we're going to show the factions. [[18:01:21]] For 216 The bill was rejected. In factions, please, yes, first of all I'm announcing an extension of 15 minutes, we need to adopt another bill. I'm going to read it now and I'm going to address the faction of Ukraine, please, the author of the bill of the next representative of your faction, take it easy. "Our Ukraine" - 65, "Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 58, Social Democrats - 10, People's Agrarian Party - 12, SPI - 19, "One Ukraine" - 13, Timoshenko - 11, Block Timoshenko is meant, Union - 5, NDP industrialists and entrepreneurs - 8, Center - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 6, Democratic Initiatives -0, Non-fractional - 9. It's on the table. Who's to return to the vote again, please make up your mind. [[18:02:42]] For 197 The bill was rejected. A bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of morals and the establishment of humanistic values in society, Bill No. 5115, here is the author of the bill of the national deputy Zubanov Vladimir Aleksandrovich, who has gone away, then, please, from the Committee of the Head of the Committee on Freedom and Information, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, the bill proposed by the people's deputies from the Zubanov and Safiulin factions aims to protect morals in the information space and to establish the humanities of Ukrainian society. But there are a few things I wanted to report to the committee for you to make the final decision. The point is that we have twice considered this bill on the committee, once invited the Zubanov and Safiulina deputies to replace the bill. A new bill has been prepared to replace it. What is the difficulty of this bill? It's the right idea, it's valuable. And we support it in the committee, in the information space, we've established morality and we've protected ourselves from what our citizens don't see. But at the same time, by interfering with such a delicate and special area of morality, the authors suggested that the entire blocks of legislation such as the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences of Ukraine should be effectively rewritten. And there are some serious problems here, because you know, these codes clearly define problems, what crime is, what crime is. And by introducing new terms as criminal responsibility for propaganda, manufacturing, marketing, distribution of sex-erotic products or, let's say, pornographic. There are many questions that obviously need legal improvement, as our administration says. There are a number of problems that involve additional licenses, which also raises some concerns. What is the position of our committee? As an idea that really needs to be discussed and supported by society, the committee proposes to support it, but from the point of view of the written law, of course, it needs to be seriously and radically improved. So we decided on the committee that the Supreme Council should make a decision on this issue. And finally, as we proceed with the committee's decision, we will continue to work on the committee. The only thing I'd like to say is that we need to think for sure about what law, after establishing political morality, we need to adopt the same. Because I read in the government courier today, and it turns out that our fellow government officials have received state science and technology awards, and they're obviously working as scientists. We found out that Mikola Azarov and Feder Jaroshenko already had laureates. Apparently, they worked in parallel on the prizes. Victor Mikhailovich Pinchuk and his father won the State Prize and so on. So I support the idea of morality, let's support the idea of establishing political morality, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? We'll vote. Then I put to the vote the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of morals and the establishment of humanistic values in society. Registration number 5115. Please be friendly. [[18:06:57]] For 206 Come on. Dear colleagues, the bill really deserves your attention. Let's get him back to the first reading. Please vote. Rereading the first reading. Take down the vote. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u97	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow MPs. You can see that the bill is very serious. They refer to the changes to a dozen legislative acts. And we're basically for them. I mean, no one's objecting, no one's objecting today. So up to 12 laws we're proposing changes. So you can see that today we don't have enough votes to vote on. Let's just carry on the vote. Because it's an incomplete vote. Adam Ivanovich, look at the clock, people are starting to break out of the hall. Some cards are left. Let's just postpone the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-14-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, please show me the faction vote. And you prepare for the vote. Please. “Our Ukraine” - 33, “Ukraine” - 25, Communist faction - 50, SDPU - 1, National Agrarian Party - 21, Socialist - 20, “Ukrainian One” - 15, “Timoshenko - 11, “Soyuz” - 6, NDP, industrialists, entrepreneurs - 5, “Centre” - 8, “Trubic Ukraine”, “Dem. Initiatives” - zeros, non-fractional - 11. Dear colleagues, let us vote in the first reading. Vote. [[18:08:50]] For 270. Thank you so much for your kind support for the very important bill. Maybe we'll put three more projects in order, right? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have left, listen, to include two bills in the agenda of the day session only, to vote and all. We're not going to look at them, we're going to do them in full today, all the more, we've got five minutes. Let's give it a try. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukraine Act of Supplement to the 2004 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, registration number 6249. Please vote. [[18:09:51]] For-58 Dear colleagues, I understand that you are doing the right thing to the Chief. So let the evening session of the session be closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10:00.
