ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:14]] A 251 national MP was registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary session on 20 October. Seven issues of the agenda, just eight bills, were considered. For a long time, we discussed the draft State Budget for 2005. You know, the decision that we've made to work it out with all the suggestions that we have and to make for the third of November. Two laws were passed in general. Five bills were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a list of issues to discuss today. Let's get to it. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, microphone. Please, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, we agreed, and it was the task of the Standing Committee, as well as of the Committee on Legal Policy, to consider a statement that was made on behalf of a group of factions that were charged with the illegality of the Supreme Council and the decisions it made. It was appropriate for the Regulatory Committee to consider and, in accordance with the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, in accordance with the Constitution, as well as the Rules of the Supreme Council to conclude on this matter. In this regard, the chairman of the Rules of Procedure has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, to carry out the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the meeting of the Committee on 20 October, a statement was considered by Ukrainian national deputy Gavrís Stepan Bogdanović, announcing at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 19 of this year. The national deputy of Ukraine, Gavrish, made a statement on behalf of the leaders of the MP factions and groups: Bogatirov, Kravczuk (the faction of the Social-Democratic Party (the United Party), Sharov (the faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine"), Pestovýtenka, Anischuk (the faction of the People's Democratic Party and the party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine), Hapochki (the MP group "The Union"), Hubski (the faction of the Party "The One Ukraine" and the deputate group "Democratic Initiatives"). [[faction of the "Regions of Ukraine"]] Regarding the issues raised in the application referred to in the subject matter of our committee's study, the following has been established: particularly with regard to these "After the start of the presidential race, the normal regulatory legislative process has been reliably blocked." The work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support such a conclusion. In line with the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the fourth call, approved by the Supreme Council Order on 17 June this year, followed by the number 1799, I emphasize that all the plenary meetings scheduled by the calendar were closed on a permanent basis in connection with the blocking of the work of the Supreme Council. On October 20, in the sixth session, the draft laws of 154 were discussed. Of these, 34 were accepted, 39 in the first or second reading. Targeted for further development 22, rejected and removed from consideration 59. During this period, 57 draft regulations were adopted, except for procedural ones. During the exercise of parliamentary powers, Ukrainian MPs actively used the Ukrainian Constitution and the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" right to request a parliamentary request. During the sixth session, 654 parliamentary questions were sent, accounting for more than half of the parliamentary requests sent in the past in 2003, during the fourth session.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u3	Microphone, please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u4	The statement states: "The legal analysis testifies to a grave violation of article 79 of the Constitution, articles 1 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies", paragraph 3.8. 1 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine The committee notes what the article says. I ask you to listen carefully. According to article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it is a matter of taking an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Ukrainian National Deputies before taking office. The article of the first Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, which states that there are general legal rules that regulate the question of who may be the national deputy of Ukraine, that the national deputy exercises its authority on a permanent basis, that the exercise of powers is governed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the State guarantees of the exercise of parliamentary powers and that the name of the national deputy of Ukraine is preserved forever. Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, referred to by the applicants, sets standards for parliamentary ethics. For more information, see article 3.8. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules on discipline and ethics at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the steps taken by the chairman of speakers when they break the rules of this article. The statement states that in the chaos of the Supreme Council, its plenary activity has been turned into nonsense, and decisions taken contrary to legislation cannot be legitimate. Parliament does not carry out its constitutional duties; the Supreme Council cannot work properly in the session hall, a truly unconstitutional number of national deputies for the adoption of laws. During the sixth session of the Fourth Congress, the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, according to part of the first article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council worked in session and began its work as part of the first article of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that is, on the first Tuesday of September of this year. During plenary meetings, according to part two of article 84 of the Constitution, decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were taken exclusively at its plenary sessions by voting. Pursuant to the decision of the Constitutional Court of October 17, 2002, the Supreme Council has the power to enact laws and to implement other constitutionally defined powers under the conditions of presence at its plenary meetings at the time of the vote of at least the number of Ukrainian national deputies required under the Constitution of Ukraine for the adoption of the relevant decision. What happened during the plenary sessions? Regarding the statement of position. We, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, on behalf of our MPs, claim that we cannot, have no moral right to continue to participate in this political show. The Committee notes that the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the possibility of a non-participation of the Ukrainian national deputy in the vote. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of July 7, 1998, stated that the performance of its duties for the benefit of all compatriots by the People’s Deputies of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is derived from the contents of the oath made by the Ukrainian National Deputy. [[Part 1 of Article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The text of the oaths sets out, inter alia, the obligation of the Ukrainian National Deputy to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. This position is specified in article 1, paragraph 4, article 24 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", according to which the personal participation in the vote on issues under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the responsibility of every Ukrainian national deputy. In the event that the proposed decision was voted on by the Constitution of Ukraine most, it is accepted regardless of how many Ukrainian national deputies did not vote. The failure of a number of Ukrainian national deputies to vote is not part of the decision - making process of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The statement also states that we also call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to move plenary meetings from this week to December 7 to 10, and this week to set up committees, parliamentary factions and groups for work. The Committee notes that, according to the rules of the Rules, changes to the calendar plan for the holding of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are only effected by the introduction and adoption of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, from the foregoing, the committee concluded that the main, thesis stated in the statement that, after the election of the President of Ukraine, the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had been blocked did not correspond to reality. The committee decided at its meeting yesterday, October 20, to inform the Supreme Council of the issues raised in the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Gavrish concerning the subject of the Committee's knowledge of the Rules, the MP's ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I beg of you, dear fellows. You can write it down for three minutes, please. Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. I think we should publish this information in the Voice of Ukraine and broadcast it to the media. Please sign up for three minutes. Dear colleagues! I was approached by a group of national deputies, and a group of Chernobylites gathered near the Supreme Council to include a broadcast on the street. Is there no objection? Please turn on the broadcast to the street. Who signed up? Red, please, "Our Ukraine." Then Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u6	Victor Yushchenka's Block, Ukrainian People's Party. With Gavrish’s statement and the so - called majority’s, it is understandable that I do not even want to take the time to find out. I'd like to tell you something else, Your Honor, Vladimir Mikhailovich. On October 18th, the Conciliation Council decided to include the agenda for the October 21st session of the Ukraine Supreme Council Decision on the Day of Government of Ukraine in November of this year. Project of the People's Deputy Ivan Bokoko. [[Registration number 6205]] Our Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting, with the participation of the author, reviewed the draft and recommended that the Supreme Council take this decision. But for unknown reasons, the 6205 Order is excluded from the agenda of the Supreme Council. Adam Ivanovich would therefore like to know the reasons for the deletion of the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u7	I'm asking the secretariat now to find out whether it's a technical error or whether it was a committee proposal and inform us, please. Michael Loboda, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u8	I'd like to give the floor to Droguncs' Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u9	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u10	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I support the statement just made by the chairman of the committee, Valentin Grigorovich, from the rostrum. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. And what I would like to say in this context is, first of all, before any election that they are and whoever we choose, the institutions of the State should function normally, no one has ever reversed Parliament's actions at the level of state or legislative assembly at the level of certain subjects. That's the first one. The other one. I think it's a decision of a number of factions not to participate in the work of the Supreme Council on their part to make a grave mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u11	Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Vitaliy Šibko gives the floor to Valentina Semenyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u12	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, we discussed the 2005 budget issue yesterday. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Cabinet of Ministers were present. This is about how they really care about those people they promise to raise pensions, wages and so forth, and they don't even come into the hall, they don't stand up for their positions that they even gave. But today, we cannot fail to listen to those who have approached us in the area that is today. That's what the Chernobyl community organization means. Today, they are asking questions about the protection and guarantees laid down in the Chernobyl status law. And I think on the second reading, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we still have to adopt that group, a delegation of people together with a budget committee to take account of their proposals, because those people were protecting the whole of Ukraine, the whole world from a terrible disaster. And I think we should listen to this question today. And I'm going to ask the head of the budget committee, and maybe Adam Ivanovich you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u13	Thank you. I will ask Adam Ivanovich to invite a budget committee to investigate the situation if a meeting is to be held during the break. Dear colleagues, the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "Stan and the problems of the legal and social status of modern Ukrainian labour migration" is under review. [[November 17, 2004]] Reporter: Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Šibko Vitali Jakovic. Please, Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you all understand that regulation of labour migration is a current state problem today. Because, on the one hand, labour migration is an objective process and on the other hand, it shows some socio-economic difficulties in our country. That is why the regulatory policy of the State regarding labour migration and its individual components should be mobile and flexible, combining the interests of the State and its citizens. It is not a secret that labour migration is complex and has a range of issues in the following areas: firstly, it is a democratic situation and a labour market, pension insurance, issues related to the education system, a criminogenic situation, consular relations, international cooperation on both a bilateral and a multilateral level. When the authors of the draft decrees of the people’s deputies came to the conclusion that parliamentary hearings were necessary, we came to the conclusion that it needed to be discussed at the parliamentary level today, and in particular to consider issues such as today’s migration trends. As you know, the current labour market is 29 million people of working age, 20 million of whom are engaged in economic activity. According to our data, three million people are learning to separate themselves from production, and two million are unemployed. These unemployed, as well as those who are dissatisfied with the working conditions offered by our country today, are inclined to migrate and work migration abroad. Up to three million of our citizens work abroad. This figure is an estimate and is based on data based on statistical and administrative information on the number and economic activity of the population by the data of Ukrainian consular institutions concerning Ukrainian citizens who are abroad and by the data of the economic activity entity involved in the employment of Ukrainian citizens abroad. And the important question is statistics, how much do our citizens really need to migrate today. And so this is a question of what kind of labor market we're going to have, and how can we today, if there's an objective situation like this, protect our citizens who are working abroad from the savannah they're facing, both in the middle of our country, about many middle-sized firms and the troubles that they might have when they're working abroad. An important issue that needs to be considered during these parliamentary hearings is the ability to calculate the incomes that come to Ukraine from citizens who earn abroad. You know, this is about 80 percent of what we're looking at is a deduction from that income that's made abroad to Ukraine. And today, it's important for us to know, to evaluate this figure so that we can have a full picture of how our GDP is made up today and what is the specific number of gross domestic product. And the last. Today, there are a number of legal acts in Ukraine, as well as interstate treaties that are directly or indirectly related to migration. However, there is no general regulatory mechanism that covers all aspects of labour migration. Parliamentary hearings should therefore be a comprehensive consideration for expressing the positions of public authorities, trade unions, and public associations. These public hearings are planned as a stage for the development of the State Migration Program. Many, many of the nations have these programs, especially such a program that already has a state like the Russian Federation. [[for messages from my colleagues]] Thank you for your attention. There's a draft decision in your attention. I think you're familiar with him. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "Stan and the problems of the legal and social status of modern Ukrainian labour migration" is put to the vote. Registration number 6257. Please vote. [[10:26:51]] For 229 Decision taken. A draft Decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" was announced for consideration in December 2004. [[on the effectiveness of State ownership management in statutory funds of privatised and state-owned farms]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u16	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Government's Day, I propose to consider on the Government's Government Day the measures taken by the government to improve the efficiency of government ownership in statutory funds of state-owned companies that are privatized and formed by state-owned societies. Why do we propose to raise this question? You know that, until now, there have been no laws governing it, despite the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers has given us orders and the Supreme Council's Order on the Effects and Perspectives of Privatization, respectively, were the orders of the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt bills that were rejected with us at the President's suggestion, particularly the veto on the Law on the Management of State Property Objects. Today, by using such imbalances in the portions of government property that are in the statutory funds of state-owned enterprises, there is in fact alienation of state property. So of the 30 state-owned holding companies that have been handed over property, today, in particular, Ukrapupyprom, Ukrressa, enterprises that relate to the polygraph industry are being alienated by the holding companies themselves. Dividends to the budget from enterprises that are part of government property are almost non-existent, and you've noticed in the draft budget that is under consideration, he's actually saying that the dividend policy in the budget is almost zero and he's even proposing to cut the budget and budget accounting, including dividends from a share of government property. Today, the issue has come to light, given that this is being privatized outside privatization laws by means of an additional issue, not even taking into account the fact that parts of government property are in those enterprises. Today, the precedent that happened to the "Crappyprom" that the holding companies themselves had privatized, the privatisation costs were not directed to the State Budget, but used themselves, that is, using the funds that were to go to the budget, were used by commercial structures. So I think we need to get out of the way of dealing with business issues that are being prepared for privatization today, especially with enterprises that have a strategic assignment. I think that the government will be new in December, we will be able to approach the issue of settlement of state ownership objectively, and we will eventually be able to put order in place. Moreover, the State Property Fund has already made a register of state property. I think that after the assignment that we've given to the district councils, registers of utility property are already being created, and we need to settle property issues as soon as possible so that we don't stretch assets illegally. I ask you to consider this question and.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u17	Yes, thank you, Valentino Petrovna. Committee position. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please. Will you be here from the rostrum? The position of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u18	Gurenko, head of the Property Committee, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The question raised today for the session of the Supreme Council is so relevant that it does not even need any further arguments. Consider, for example, yesterday’s debates on the screen conducted by Communist Party candidate Peter Simonenko and another party candidate. And we've all been able to see how strong the arguments are today, particularly by the representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine to protect state property. And that's really an urgent question. Our committee is largely mindful of the need to consider the matter. But I can't help but say that the matter in the committee wasn't discussed at the meeting. It was not considered for reasons that we did not have a reporter, the subject of a constitutional initiative. So we would consider the following to be appropriate. Given that the issue is relevant, let the committee representative, namely, the honourable Valentina Petrovney, speak at a committee meeting, justify their position. And then we'll make a decision. And today we're going to think that the question is being discussed, and the solution is being postponed to actually making a decision, as suggested by the Property Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u19	Thank you. Please write down three minutes of motive. With motives, with respect, it's not a discussion -- it's a motive. Please sign in. There's nothing to discuss. If I have not considered the committee, what should I discuss? Yavorovsky Vladimir, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think we're giving some kind of rivalry to discuss the government day. "Government Day" and our hearings are all about, as it were, the discovery of something important to Ukraine. What Valentina Seminyuk has told us today, let's say, as a deputy, as a citizen of this state, it seems very important and necessary. Because I deeply respect my colleague Guerrenk, but I think it will now be passed on to the committee. The committee will discuss it. The question is very important. What part, like that piece, is part of that property that's in the state. How it's used. Who's behind this? I think we need to discuss this issue, especially without putting it off. Thank you. I think that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u21	Yes, Victor Mironenko, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no serious training in this matter. In accordance with the Rules, there is a violation of the Rules in this case, but most importantly, Valentin Petrovna, you should seek as much support as possible to justify it, because in fact we are considering some issues and there is no result. As the robbery went on, so did the robbery. You speak many times, and you don't speak! I'd like you to come to the committee and convince the committee. And naturally, the Communist faction has always fought against "acceptance" and we will fight. Only by calling on the socialists to work together in this regard, organized, strong enough, and that will be the case. Unfortunately, we don't have it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u23	Valentina Seminouk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u24	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, if there were quorums at committee meetings, we would not be discussing this issue in the hall today. But if there is no committee meeting, we should accept it in the session room. In addition, I want to tell you that it took a long time to manage public property. By the way, Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko himself offers you an inventory, an investment commitment. Then I ask the Communists, "You're already against it, so you don't want to support today's real question, which will enable you to figure out in the end in December why the government doesn't. Today, the adoption of the Law on the Administration of State Property is being blocked. The adoption of the Law on Municipal Property is a matter of concern. Is it convenient for the water to continue its work as it is today to be further stretched? Are we going to end up putting our personal ambitions somewhere and voting this issue in the hall and listening to the government, or are we going to continue to pull it further?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u25	Thank you. The replica. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u26	Gurenko, the Communist faction. I think we need to approach this issue calmly. What's the matter? The thing is, Valentina Petrovna, I'm not comfortable talking, but the quorum was. You weren't on the committee. If you feel that the matter can be considered without your presence, then make a statement such that without your presence, we will consider it. That's the only thing. And to speculate, I'm sorry, on this, all the more to call on our committee, which is too political, but adheres to, I think, a reasonable line. And about the faction of Communists saying nothing, we've always supported and supported the line of government ownership. Come to the committee, take part in the work, we'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Allow me to make that offer. Now, so that we don't burn the question, speaking harshly, because we put it to a vote, the decision won't be taken. [[I'm asking you.]] Please. Stanislav Ivanovich, let's not tear that fragile one apart. I beg you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Let us vote on this question and make a decision accordingly. Let's do it this way. Is there no objection? We'll consider it, we'll vote, but we'll make a decision. I'm saying let's do it now, because we're going to burn the question, not vote for it. So let's take a look at the committee, we'll vote it out, because now it's him. There will be no decision, Valentina Petrovna! You realize there won't be a decision now. Let's move it and that's it. I suggest it's real. Let's do it this way: let's take a look at the committee. Please! And we vote it out, we reserve a place for that question, okay? Valentina Petrovna, there will be no result! There will be no result! And they'll blame you. Now they're looking for a violation of the rules that didn't address the matter on the committee. Now the others are without a committee, but they just brought it. There won't be a problem with that. Yes. A draft decree on the conduct of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the legislative provision for the development and improvement of the Buria Sugar Complex in Ukraine is being announced. [[in January 2005]] Dear colleagues! Valentina Petrovna, I'm going to explain once again that we're going to reserve a place for this issue and we're going to take it up, and we're going to look at it -- that's all. We're booking the place. For protocol. Please. Because it won't make any difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine The need for this decision is caused by the state of the Burretsucar complex that today took place in the state, and it will be open and unsatisfying. If, by 1991, the sugar industry had been a fairly developed industry in the state and provided 13 percent of the country’s budget revenue, we were the world’s leading producer and producer, I would remind you of the figure: over 5 million tonnes), and we were among the world’s first six sugar exporters, the situation had worsened considerably in recent years. Production volumes have dropped almost three times, you and I, the distinguished national MPs, every year we adopt regulations and laws on the importation of cane sugar, in fact we become dependent on imports of raw materials uncontrolledly shut down factories, dramatically reduce the sown areas of sugar beet trees, and this increases the number of unemployed in the field. Today, it is estimated to be nearly 400,000 people. In fact, out of 192 factories, 30 stopped completely, 40 in turn. Now it's working with 192 factories, now it's 110. In 2004, a total of 754,000 acres [754,000 ha] was planted this year. In fact, in 1985-1990, it was 14 million hectares. It cannot be said that the government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, did not pay any attention to this issue, some laws, government regulations were adopted. But unfortunately, there is no balanced government policy for developing market transformations and for reforming the beet-sugar sector, for protecting the internal market from imports and for controbanding sugar. According to a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, this situation can only be rectified in a comprehensive manner. And that means that at the level of the state, concrete measures will have to be taken to prepare for the industry, to introduce new technologies for the cultivation and harvesting of sugar beet trees, starting with the development of seed selections of this culture, ending with the creation of a material and technical base, to provide a complex of agricultural machinery for the cultivation of sugar raw materials and modern equipment for the technological upgrading of sugar plants. [[The frame is no longer available]] Clearly, all of this requires a thorough analysis and discussion of communication, proposals from national deputies, experts, and experts in the field, and manufacturers. In this regard, the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee is introducing a draft Decision on January.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u29	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u30	We propose parliamentary hearings on the legislative provision for the development and improvement of the turquoise complex in Ukraine. I ask on behalf of the committee and how the author, one of the authors, will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, on the small side it is that on January 12th, according to the calendar plan, we have a full-time job in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u32	We'll talk like that in January.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u33	Thus, in January after that, parliamentary vacations go on. So we went up here, we looked, or we had to do it on January 5. It is clear to you that the fifth of January is what day it is. Just a minute. Here we have a full day’s work schedule. Fifth, if you wish, please let us keep the fifth number. In February, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u34	In February. In February.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u35	Please, if there's a question, three minutes, please log in. We'd better vote. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u36	Yukhnovsky, People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's block. Honorable peasants are certainly to be done in February. On January 5th, it's Christmas, all people are getting ready for Christmas, and we're going to sit here and look at it. But I wanted to notice, having this time. The Analytical Advisory Council has studied the sugar industry of Ukraine in detail. And I want to say with confidence, as long as there's no sugar beet yield of 500 centimetres per hectare, the sugar farm of Ukraine will not be competitive with sugarcane. Another way out. As a result, we need to make an appropriate strategy. I'm in favour of having a proper consideration, but he was in February.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u37	Thank you. We've already agreed to your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u38	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vassil Antonovich, I just want to understand for myself. Do you really believe that if these hearings go through, we will make a difference. Well, someone who's guilty of not having beets, someone who's guilty of not working sugar factories. They're in the hall, they're guilty, they're sitting. They have to get up, say it because it's my fault. And we all know what to do about it. You just have to hang someone's responsibility that someone has to be responsible for it. And the hearings will be or will not be. If people are irresponsible and everything falls out of their hands, none of this will work. We just have to always take responsibility for our work, like, for example, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u40	Olga Petrovna, I think that really everyone should react responsibly, but hearings are being held in order for you to know that we in the Supreme Council have not conducted one single hearing, and yet hearings are being held in order to raise the problem and identify certain measures and to study in general the deeper situation that lies ahead and what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u41	Mikola Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Vasil Antonovich, you've raised an urgent problem. I've got some manufacturers in the county who grow 920 centimetres of beet from a hectare. This is, in particular, Vernigor. But I still have a big problem: the largest sugar factory, the Vochric factory, was in advance of the producers, especially in the neighboring district of Sumsk. Humans have grown crops, and today the head of the district administration forbids these producers from placing their products on the factory floor. People without a job. There's such an unwanted situation, a social explosion. I would like to draw your attention to both you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and the Prime Minister, and all of you, so that this situation will be rectified so that the Vochric Sugarcombinate will receive the product that has already been made available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u43	What can be said about this? We are the rule of law. If contracts are concluded or agreements are signed, they must be implemented. This needs to be controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u44	Yes, Leukyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u45	Lukyanenko. Please pass the word to Kirilchuku Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u46	Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u47	Thank you, Leveko Grigorovitch. I, like the whole faction, will support your proposal, it's urgent, because the government has even put cane sugar in the budget, and that will continue to destroy those factories that are ever working or even breathing. We must restore the industry because we are losing tens of billions of gross products and billions of wages, and we will save a huge population. This program must be developed with the new president, under the new government, and this will be a positive result. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on a draft decision to hold parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legislative provision for the development and improvement of the turquoise complex in Ukraine in February 2005. Please vote. [[10:49:20]] For 240 Decision taken. A draft amendment law is being announced for consideration. Yeah. What? And one minute, my esteemed colleagues, two factions, "Our Ukraine" and BUT, they called for a break in accordance with the Rules. It's all right. Well, one minute, not all at once. Come on, make a statement, and we'll keep working. I would like to take into account that today we still need to resolve the question of the appointment of judges and many social laws, so I would like to work actively.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The "Power of the People" coalition, which includes Victor Yushchenka's bloc and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, is forced to draw attention once again to the fact that in Ukraine today the authorities have declared vacations for criminals and started political terror against those who have their positions and are in political opposition. Today, the police are arresting students, activists, active citizens of Ukraine only for speaking out against the candidate of the power of Viktor Yanukovic and having another position. I'd like you to hear that only in the last few days in Kiev are you arrested and still in the police force as an activist of the Ukrainian People's Party Jaroslav Hour. In Kharkiv, Yuri Potikán, assistant to Vladimir Stretovic, was arrested, where he was allegedly found to have been bombarded. It seems like we've already started making these explosives at the factories. In sum, Andrew Ocerejko and Mikola are arrested for distributing official, legal products for Yushchenka. In Nicholas is Anatoly Zawinowski, Spokesman of the People's Deputy Yuri Shirka. In Chernigov, there's a group of students who took part in the student's class for Victor Yushchenk's support. Such examples are becoming more and more daily. If the police at the station before during the "Ukraine Without Kuchma" campaign were catching people in one sign: those who speak Ukrainian -- today the police are catching these people at another sign: if they say they're against Yanukovich, or if they say they're Yushchenka. I don't know what the police are planning to do with other millions of people who are against Yanukovich, where she's going to put them. But we demand once again the leadership of the National Security and Defence Council to hold an immediate meeting, with the invitation of the Governing Body, representatives of our factions, to discuss an impartial and objective situation in Ukraine. Because the information that comes to us: and the military movement, and the removal of bases under Kiev, shows that a party of hawks around the President is preparing powerful scenarios for the development of events. Parliament and our coalition will do everything they can to prevent this from happening. So once again, we demand an extraordinary meeting of the National Security and Defence Council. As far as the militia is concerned, once again I want to say that signals from honest, orderly militiamen show that if the militia's former leadership wanted only to drink three days after their candidate's victory, it is now using a complete hindrance. The Kyiv militia comes first, it's already exhausted the names of the animals in its special services there, it's already decided to do the Nancy Special Services, which will use chemical weapons against the civilian population. Maybe they're there, in Russia, in the North East, borrowing some methods to fight the peace population. That is why we demand the release of the Minister of the Interior. And once again, Parliament must stop and help stop this militia and the rule of law structures of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u51	The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! I would like to begin by thanking the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you honourable national deputies, for having adopted a unique law with you as early as March 2003. His uniqueness was that he was accepted in March, and since May 1, 2003, he began to work. I think it's very important. As for the changes that are taking place today. The ones that are being offered today. It's about three things. First of all, something to increase the size of these payments. Secondly, to make these payments outside the minimum of living. I think you can understand why, since the Cabinet of Ministers' recent regulations have levelled everyone to a level of retirement. And third, something to expand around those who have the right to this payment. This is primarily about participants in combat. In addition, by laying down the final elements of this law, we will open the way for payment of pensions on the basis of a special merit law before Ukraine. That is why the situation today is like this. The committee held three meetings of the working group. We've tried to take all the proposals made by the MPs as fully as possible. And today, that's the situation. Of the 9 amendments that were made, 6 included, 3 not counted, but not counted because they couldn't be taken into account, because we have made every effort to do so and therefore, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the disabled of the Great War of the country in this 60-year victory. I think you and I are going to do the sacred work of supporting our disabled before the 60th anniversary of the great victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! What warnings are there? Insomnia, please. Microphone. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u54	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." As we know, the government of Yanukovich has not increased any pensions but has established targeted relief by decree 1215 of September 18. And we're proposing, and I'm going to read out my amendment, "Set up the disabled and veterans of war, as well as other pensioners, on which the Act on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees Their Social Protection," the pension is not lower than the legal subsistence minimum for disabled persons." And the second. Persons who are covered by the Act on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, who are not pensioners, but for whom payment under this law is the main source of existence, to establish such payments at a level equal to that established by law as a minimum of living for disabled persons. This corresponds to the Constitution, which corresponds to the number 432 of the bracelet that we supported with you. Retirement is not charity, it's money that's earned, and we have to pay it off, not any.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u55	Boris Yakovich, thank you for your reply. I would like to confirm that, indeed, you have repeated the Constitution in your proposal, and this is very important. But I'd like to say something else. Dear colleagues! In particular, there are other proposals that are not included, which have suggested a slightly substantial increase in the size of these payments. I'll tell you what, we were willing to support a 1,000-dollar payout on the committee, and that would be the right thing to do with a war invalid. But we have to understand, dear colleagues, that we're just going to lead to a veto on this law. So I would very much like us to act within the limits of what we can and take a step towards our people with disabilities, because otherwise we're just going to bring this law to the President's veto, and in the end, no one gets anything. So I would ask you to support these changes to the Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities of War in the way in which it was submitted by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u56	I'll do it! Vote Amendment 6 of Boris Bespalogo, page 3. [[10:58:29]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I actually expressed the committee's position. I am absolutely convinced that the disabled deserve it. But, dear colleagues, if we even vote on this amendment now, we have to understand that we're just going to get the President's veto. And as a result, people with disabilities don't get what they can get. obtain as a result of the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u58	Let's take some small steps, the committee head says right, we'll move. Please, Bespaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I am truly grateful, like the disabled, I hope you are nearly 200 deputies, to those who have supported this position. I point out that it is not something that is unreasonable. It's about setting up this pension or other payments under this law just 432 bracelets, that's the minimum of living we've already voted with you, so we've already recognized that there's money for this increase. And I think if the President doesn't commit this rule to the rest of his presidency, because he's not going to make a living minimum, that is, it's not about some populist unbalanced proposal I'm proposing to bring this rule to a realistic minimum of living that we've already voted on, not just that it's declared in the Constitution. So I'm asking Vladimir Mikhailovich to come back to this issue and still the committee to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u60	Yes. Dear colleagues, no motive, wait! We only vote on the amendments. Calm down! I put the motion to a vote: Who is responsible for coming back to the consideration of this amendment and going back to the consideration of this amendment? Please vote. [[11:00:40]] For 235 I'm voting on Amendment 6 of Boris Bespalogo. [[11:01:01]] For 237 Correction accepted. All adjustments are included. I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities, registration number 6104. Please vote. [[11:01:37]] For 243 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects that Are Not Privatized is being announced for consideration. Philip Philipovich Budzigan, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization and the amendment of this law, registration number 2405-20, is being submitted to your consideration. The second reading of the bill received four amendments. In particular, Karmazin's amendment is rejected because it is settled in article 5 of the Privatization Act and the Cabinet Orders of 15.05. In 03 C.E. and Cabinet Order No. 1346. Matthew’s correction is included. Two amendments to the Gap: one is rejected, because the proposals have already been considered several times in this room in another law, and they haven't received support; and the Gap, Osika, Shufrich -- there are no substantial justifications, so they're rejected. There is a proposal to support the bill and accept it in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It is up to the vote to propose a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects Unprivatized. Registration number 2405-20. Please vote. [[11:03:39]] For 242 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct on Expertise is being announced for consideration. Mikola Onischuk, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Czernovetsk People's Deputy made proposals to amend the Law on Executive Conduct. These proposals were just two, and they were the next. First. It is to amend the Law on Executive Conduct in part that the property to which the bidding is made should be sold, not at a cost of balancing, but at an estimated cost. This proposal is taken into account by the committee. But in the way that we had previously amended the Law on Executive Conduct, we had already taken it into account. So here the author of the legislative initiative is already satisfied, and this proposal is properly reflected, taken into account. The second suggestion made by Leonid Mikhailovich was that if the property was put on the market in connection with the execution of the execution of the proper conduct, if it had not been sold for the first time, the next time it was put on the market, the price of the property, the object of the sale would have been reduced by 30 percent. The committee has considered this proposal and has suggested that it be decided on in particular. That's it. The committee proposes that this proposal be rejected and left behind today, I apologize for the 30 - percent discount on sales of the object’s price. The Czernowiecki National MP suggested that the level of this discount should be reduced to 10 percent of the value of the object. The committee therefore proposes that the first proposal for selling the price of an object be taken into account according to its expert evaluation. The second suggestion is that a valid norm should be rejected when re-securitisation in case it was not implemented to reduce by 10 percent against the existing 30 percent rate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Yes, there are no questions. We only vote for corrections. It's a second reading. Motives have the right, Chernewsky. Czernovecki microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Czernovetskie Leonid Mikhailovich. You know what this is about. Today, performers are common criminals who underestimate the value of public property or private property and sell it without informing others. I took this practice, and my bill, actually I had to report it, it's kind of dangerous to the Ministry of Justice. Please vote in full. Which we can talk about. They still take him down to the limit. And what kind of expert services do we have? They'll do any forensics for 10 bracelets. So we're losing government property, so we're losing all our property. And that's how everyone who isn't in the bush or some shit gets sued. I call on you, please, to vote on everything I have offered you in full. Otherwise, we will have problems with those who work honestly and with public enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u66	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It is up to the vote to propose a second reading adoption committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation. [[on expertise]] Registration number 3369. Please vote. [[11:08:12]] For 243 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the timely payment of wages is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, who will report from the committee? So I'm going to take this function. May I have your attention, Your Honor? A number of suggestions were made, all taken into account except: Boris Bespalogo's third proposal is not included. Are you insisting on her, Boris Jakovitch? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure timely payment of wages. Registration number 4241. Please vote. [[11:09:25]] For 155 Yes, with the motives of the cook, then the Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to explain the position of the faction "Our Ukraine" on this bill. Of course, it's fundamental for us to ask that all wages of any employee, regardless of their place of employment, should be paid on time at all. Instead, this bill actually sets standards that restore the file. It's actually the suppression of small and medium-sized businesses, and we can't agree with that. So our proposal is to send this bill back to read again to correct these standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u68	Stanislaw Gurenko, please, as the author, is one of the authors of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u69	Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, dear colleague Zvaric! Well, I'd like my colleagues to reconsider their view of this law. Of course, there are many flaws in it, as in many of our bills. But we are now taking a practical step to move away from the issue of non-payment of wages. Dear colleague cook, let's take it the way it is, and then we'll improve it, because, well, before the election, if that's the case, we've already screwed up with this bill. Let's take it, and then, if we have to, we'll perfect it, we'll do it together. Let's take this bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the arguments are made. May I have your attention, please? The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure timely payment of wages is put to the vote. [[By the way, all conclusions are, Scientific and Legal Administration]] Registration number 4241. Please vote. [[11:12:09]] For 230 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we should now consider a draft law on the return of Ukrainian citizens' money savings on the basis of the coming of funds from the privatization of state property. This law was considered by the committee and prepared for consideration in the session hall. However, the Chief Legal Authority and the Scientific and Experimental Authority entrusted with the task of processing have made a number of proposals to ensure that the law is well written. The Committee requests that its consideration be postponed for consideration of the proposals made by the Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Chief Legal Authority. Stanisław Ivanovich, please, Gurenko. I read a letter that was simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wanted to ask you to support the committee's proposal. It's not about deviation. Once again, not the rejection of the bill, but the transfer of its consideration. Let's support this decision and just agree to it today so that we can move our decision from this to a later date. later. Let's say it's about November. In order not to make a decision about what to reject or move to the second, a third reading. There are certain coalitions, they can be settled, and the issue is also important. I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal and move the matter to a later term, say November-December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain again. The law has been prepared, but the Chief Legal Authority has expressed a number of considerations. To make sure we're not. accepted, and then he was not dedicated to his final work. Because it has an important social sound. Let's support this proposal, postpone its consideration. Instead of rejecting, we postpone consideration, and we will consider it and make the right decision. No objections? Thank you. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] The reporter is Mikola Tomenko. Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, this is more about technology. You remember that we made a positive decision in the session room and approved it in our second reading. We had a colossal or, let's say, a certain contradiction between the two articles we previously adopted in the Radio Frequency Resource Act and, respectively, the two articles 14 and 15 concerning the powers of the National Council in this edition that we voted for. In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council, we have brought articles 14 and 15 into line with the relevant articles of the Radio Frequency Resource Act, which gives us reason to vote today for two clarified articles, and these two clarifications have led us to actually translate several ideas or sentences 24, 25 articles, but once again, it is not conceptual or meaningful things, but it is the clarification of two legislative acts among ourselves that have been adopted over the past six months. Therefore, the committee's proposal to accept these proposals and to approve them in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! You remember, we considered this law in the second reading and moved it to the third reading to technically harmonize with the provisions of the Radio Frequency Act. It's done. So we have every reason to consider it for final adoption today. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a committee on adoption in the third reading and as a whole, as a law, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on National Council for Television and Broadcasting, registration number 3283. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[11:16:37]] For 231 The law is passed. The draft Law on Sources of Financing for Social Expenses and Associated Administrative Expenses is announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Reporter Aloshin Valerius Borisovich. And, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, I'm sorry, I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! A few words about what's going on in the changes to this law. The point is that after the adoption of the National Pension Insurance and Pension Insurance Act, there is a need to clearly distinguish between the costs financed by the Pension Fund and the State Budget or other government programs. So that's exactly what this is about -- doing a technological function, clearly distinguishing what sources are covered by. Of the amendments that were made by the people’s deputies, there were fourteen, eleven fully counted, three partially accounted for, not just one amendment. And then this amendment refers to the deadline for the introduction of this law. The committee insists that the law be enacted after its publication, and the national deputies have been proposed. Two national deputies have proposed to introduce it since January 1, 2005. So the committee, after considering this proposal, considers it necessary to put it into effect after its adoption and publication. There are no other amendments. I ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u76	Yes. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, the draft Law on Sources of Financing for Social Expenses and Associated Administrative Expenses is put to the vote. Registration number 2329. Please vote. [[11:19:01]] For 227 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Approval Order of the National Information Programme for 2003-2005 is being announced for consideration. We discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council and decided unanimously to consider the problem and make a positive decision. Please, Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov, head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Science and Education considered at its meeting the noted address of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and based on article 6.2. 11 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: first, to support the government's proposal and to consider the draft Approval Order of the 2003-2005 National Information Programme, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, register. No. 4007 of 18.07.2003 for those who have lost their relevance and those who have been recalled. And the second. In view of the cancellation of the draft decision, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 2 March this year, No. 1564, according to which the task of the National Information Programme for 2003-2005 is to be adopted as a basis. The main reason is that we approve the program for years that have passed. Therefore, taking into account the commitment of the Cabinet of Ministers to the 2005 and 2007 program, there is a reason for us to work as hard as we say we do. Back up, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the proposal is obvious because it is ending in 2004. So I'm voting on the draft Ordinance to adopt it as the Approval Order for the National Information Programme for 2003-2005, registration number 4007-P. Please vote. [[11:21:57]] For 227 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -85; regions -0; communists -58; SDPU -0; National Agrarian -20; SPI -20; Block Timoshenko -18; Alliance -1; "Only Ukraine" -0; "Centre" -12; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -4; "Deminiciates" -0; non-fractional -9. Nice microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u79	Nikolainka, a faction of socialists, head of the Committee on Science and Education. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we did the right thing by removing this issue because the deadlines have passed. But I would ask you, let's make a protocol decision, call on the government to immediately introduce the 2005-2008 programme, as provided by law. Because today, we have 500 million dollars in the ministries, the information programs' offices are there, and in the country as a whole, it's not going to go, well, five or five million dollars, a penny. That's why we're suffering so much, and the state is suffering damage.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u80	Thank you. I ask you to prepare such an assignment, an appeal to the government. I mean the Secretariat. A draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by a terrorist act or a diversion is under consideration. Registration numbers 2402, 2402-1. Rapporteurs are National Deputy of Ukraine Hinzburg Olga Petrovna and National Deputy of Ukraine Skomarowski Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Prepare for the Committee of Simon Vladimir Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. As I report today’s law, I would like to focus on such matters. In recent times, terrorism has become increasingly dangerous. Terrorist acts are accompanied by numerous human sacrifices, destruction of material and spiritual values, instilling wars, enmity, mistrust, and hatred between social and national groups. At times, a good relationship cannot be restored even throughout a generation. Terrorism is therefore one of the most dangerous and difficult to predict in society. Yet, if in the past terrorists have been selected as victims of specific state or public figures, modern political terrorists are not repulsed by mass killings, human casualties have become one of the most effective means of modern terrorism. A terrorist is one of the most dangerous crimes, because he can destabilize the political situation in the country, exacerbate social, political, national, economic conflicts, especially when terrorist attacks occur in public election campaigns. The victim of such a terrorist act may be anyone, not even one who has the slightest bearing on the conflict that led to the terrorist act. It is in Ukraine that there have been cases of political terrorism in recent years, such as past presidential elections. Taking into account the above facts, as well as articles 3, 27, 46 and 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a draft law is proposed to provide citizens, victims of a terrorist act or diversion, with defined guarantees of social protection, and the social protection of their families. This law, which I propose to your attention, sets out the basic provisions for the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act or diversion to protect their lives and health and guarantees the social protection of persons who, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, are defined as victims of the crime, provided for in article 258, and article 113 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In view of the fact that man and his life, his health, honor and dignity, his integrity and security are determined by the highest social value in Ukraine, the Supreme Council, in carrying out this responsibility with the approval and safeguarding of human rights and freedoms, should adopt this law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the financing of the expenses associated with the implementation of this law is made from the costs of the Ukrainian Cabinet reserve fund by paying for, firstly, the burial of the dead as a result of a terrorist act, secondly, the payment of one - time assistance to persons, suffered from a terrorist act or diversion. And the third is the financing of the cost of recovery. All other costs come from the State Budget, the local budgets, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Security Service. Thank you for your attention. The meeting is chaired by MARTINJUK A.I.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Please have a seat, Olga Petrovna. Yes, we still have Bill 2402-1, National Deputy of Skomarovsky Volodymyrovich. Is it? Then, please, from the committee. And you wait, please. Now, now we're going to find out who co-authors of this bill are. There's Skomarowski, Poshenko. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen of the national party, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman! First of all, I would like to point out that there is a very strong wish that the bill put forward for your consideration should never be put into practice. Regrettably, the need for this law came in view of the sad events that took place last year in Winnitz, when terrorist acts in a taxi killed and seriously injured people. I personally had the opportunity to meet with those who suffered as a result of this terrible terrorist act, and, indeed, it was extremely difficult to observe how fate had broken the fate of the people who had committed this criminal terrorist act, separated mother and daughter, killed the lives of dozens of people who had simply been deprived of their ability to exist, and how the State remained in a situation where it had left these people, in fact, on its own with its own problems, and only if you wanted charitable, some, well, from the baroque shoulders of such acts of power that did not sustain the difficult, terrible moment of people who suffered, in fact, because of the lack of power. Article 21 of the Law states that persons who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act are provided with psychological, medical, professional rehabilitation, legal assistance, and employment. Part 3 of this article determines that the order of social rehabilitation of victims is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. At the time of the signing of the bill, no such order was approved by the government. The relevant decision was taken only on July 28, but this decree raises more questions than answers. It seems to have been written only for the branch, just to execute ours with you, your honourable colleagues, your decrees, the Supreme Council's decree. Instead, the drafters developed a project that took into account the specific suggestions of the people who had suffered this attack and who had in practice encountered the will and heartlessness of the officials. That is why the drafters of the bill, which foresees that individuals who have suffered from a terrorist attack receive one-time financial assistance, are asked to support it on the basis of social, psychological and other rehabilitation. This is the same position taken by the National Security and Defence Committee, and we were able to take into account our second reading experiences, the work that would be expressed by the National Deputies in preparing for the second reading, because the problem in this regard is, with actual terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, from the committee, on strike watch after the 75th anniversary of Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two bills have been introduced from this very acute problem. They were reported by the authors of the legislative initiative. Law projects have many similarities, and each one has its own characteristics. Science and expertise and the committee at the time of the consideration of these bills made a lot of comments. They're right. And the Science and Experimental Authority suggests that they be returned to the first reading. But given that the first bill was introduced in November 2002, the second in December 2003, the problem is very serious, it needs a legal settlement. The committee is able to prepare for the second reading on the basis of these two bills one draft law and adopt it in a second reading. So I would suggest that we adopt both bills in the first reading and assign a committee on their basis to prepare for the second reading one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u86	Georgi Korniyovich, please sit down. No questions asked, it's a shortcut procedure. Two for, two against. Those who signed up insist on the talk? Please, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u87	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots, the Communist faction agrees with the need to send bills for re-reading. We have considered the Ginsburg bill, which calls for support, and, of course, for both of these bills, and for reintroduction into the Supreme Council, because the topic is extremely relevant. We all know that there was no problem with socialism, it was not. There is now a need for strict law. And we need to consider, in addition to adopting this law, the root causes of terrorism, not only how we can help people after a terrorist act has been committed, but also how we can prevent terrorist acts. Basically, if we look at pre-revolution. Russia, in today's world, is the class social, national, religious and intervention of foreign States. Unfortunately, we have it all in Ukraine now. There is a very powerful class oppression of oligarchs, great capitalists, which, despite the fact that the Democrats seem to be in power, but they're not Democrats. We understand that democracy is the power of the people, and now the people are powerless. And when two groups, so-called democratic, are fighting again for the presidency, it is clear that in this case they are not trying to establish democracy, but retaining the capitalist power, and this is naturally a source of terrorism. It's scary. It is also frightening that some underestimate the relationship of national religious oppression. The intervention of foreign States. We know perfectly well that Ben Ladana gave birth to the United States of America. And now they're pretending to be running around the world, and they can't catch this "unsuspecting Joe" born to "Uncle Sam". We know well that before the intervention in Iraq and, unfortunately, the Ukrainian troops came to our shame, I personally said from this rostrum: "If anyone votes for the introduction of troops into Iraq, he will be responsible for the deaths of people!".. And unfortunately, our people are dying, and so-called Democrats are now blinking and talking about the need to withdraw troops from Iraq. There is now US intervention and there will be nothing good about Belarus and Ukraine. Terrorism is supported by the United States and we must make this clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u88	Yeah, I just didn't understand who "thank you" was. To those who support terrorism? Please, Yavorowski. After him, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski, Block Yushchenka, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky Districts, Ukraine Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We stand with you all and the entire Ukrainian nation, the entire Ukrainian people, before a completely new, unheard-of challenge. In fact, wars, like they've moved somewhere else, instead of today in a match of ideas, have come together with some kind of submerged weapon -- it's terrorism. We seemed to the Ukrainians somewhere, our house was the last house there, as Boris Oilynik once said, beautifully said, "Houses start from the land." This has happened to us. Of course, this bill is needed. And I think it's a little bit more problematic in detail than the law prepared by the Skomarovsky group. Although there are some interesting things in the Hinzburg bill. But I wanted to talk to you today about this. We're adopting this bill, like, tomorrow. But if you put your hand on your heart today, it can be said that in Ukraine, in fact, during this time, there were no external acts of terrorism brought about in 13 years. All that we had with you, all those acts were carried out by the authorities. So today we have a number one terrorist in the person of authority. Remember what was done, socialists, against Frost. This so-called terrorist act against Vitrenco. I don't have anything against Vitrenco like that, but what it did to take Frost out of the election, and it was achieved, that's a fact. Today we hear an organized terrorist attack on the Trinity market. You see how cruel things are when the authorities take over, in fact, the law enforcement authorities take over all of these shares. And now we see that they find it all the time, and they're going to find explosives in the MPs' portfolios soon. My dears, look at this. I mean, this bill has to be adopted. But I don't know, you just have to tell the people, fear the chief terrorist, that's the authority that's in place today, and that's ready to go for anything. But I am in favour of adopting these two bills in the first reading, working on them, and this bill needs to be adopted. Although, to be honest, if people are affected, such as disabled persons, do not bring them, lords, they are immediately subject to other legislation. That is why we need to think about this very carefully. But I came here to say, stop the main terrorist, stay with the Ukrainian people for another 10 days, survive from all of this, and then everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u90	Please, Bespali, follow him Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u91	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Unfortunately, the problem of terrorism is and suffers from specific and innocent people, suffering both from terrorist acts in Ukraine, and so are the Ukrainians who suffer from terrorist acts in other countries, for example, during the Nord-ost musical in Moscow, and, by the way, I note that so far it has not been found which specialized toxic substances have been used there. In the meantime, the issue for Ukraine today is relevant, especially against the background of the threat posed by the main Kiev militant, Alexander Milenin, who threatens to use substances of concern, should he not look for terrorists in the mirror? So the problem is, unfortunately, relevant. But there is another side to this problem. I am now taking the Hinsburg Bill, article 2, as a whole, a good bill, but it states that the grounds for recognizing the status of persons who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act or diversion are, inter alia, the decree of the institution that conducts the inquiry. In principle, the Department of Internal Affairs, or the Ukrainian Security Service, or the Office of the Attorney-General, conducts the investigation and investigation. The issue of terrorist acts or diversions is a subject of the SBA. So from here it turns out that before the trial and without the trial, the BSS will establish not only the status of the victims, it would be normal, but also whether or not it was a terrorist act. So she's getting the opportunity to fabricate so-called false terrorists. And that seems to be what the authorities are doing, the more faithful, the more accurate they are doing, and we now have a political prisoner, Jaroslav Godunka, whose liberation our faction requires, Yuri Potakana and so on. Therefore, it is very dangerous to assign the Security Service without trial and to bring to trial those or certain sad events already to declare themselves to be a terrorist act. There is no way to do this, especially with that kind of authority. As for people who have suffered, whether they have suffered from diversion, terrorist acts, or simply gang raids, they should be adequately protected both from a medical point of view and from a social point of view. And that's why the faction of Victor Yushchenk's Block "Our Ukraine" will support the proposal by the profile committee to adopt, on the basis of both bills, that when preparing for the second reading, take into account most of the norms they have and are, in fact, positive and designed to protect innocent people and to protect society from terrorists, both in exiles and without them. But not to take them all at once, because some of the positions that I've demonstrated are questionable and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Leonid Chernewicki, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Our Ukraine faction, Chernovetski, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. First of all, I want to tell you that the bill itself and the idea is very noble, but naive, like scientific communism, because. I'll tell you why. Because today terrorist acts are determined by authority, which you believe is criminal. I'm going to propose that we welcome this law, because Comrade Ginsburg gave it to his soul. Secondly, so that we can bring some important points that I'm going to talk about below. Terrorism is now taking place by the State in relation to ours. criminal authority against every citizen on a daily basis. Look at Yushchenka. Listen to Vladimir Mihajlovich's statement that his children are at risk of drugs and all other matters. It's terrorism. It's not terrorism when my guy gets his legs cut off, cut off, put on his chest. The criminal case has not yet been brought before the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'll show you the tape on which he tells my social workers how terrible he feels, how he asks the doctor, "Please give me the drug, I'm hurt." And they say to him, "Give him to Chernovetsk, everyone he's gonna put in our hospital." But now, thank God, they're a little afraid of the Supreme Council. All of them have the same share. And they put his feet on his chest. Your constituents, your communists, your noble people, are not being treated today, nor are the pensioners, nor are they being treated. Is that not terrorism? Pure terrorism. They're making money. And that's what the authorities do every day. Gets them out of their apartments. Bring it in. All that is happening today is terrorism. Because Usama Ben Laden, he looks at Ukraine and rejoices with all his heart. Such terrorism as exists today, and I do not associate it with specific personnel, I do not say that it is the responsibility of the President of Ukraine or the current Prime Minister. All power is criminal, insolent. All she does to people is not terrorism? Let them be responsible for this. But not enough for them to be responsible for this materially. Because today no one can receive the necessary medical education, nor is our living minimum with rising prices and permanent survival, with no payment for utilities, expelling like dogs retired from apartments, the courts are overwhelmed by cases. Is that not terrorism? You'll agree. Re-read it to the Committee. And.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u94	With the motive of Boris Ilchi Oljinik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I bow gratefully to the law-makers. And with Olga Hinzburg's face, Kruczkova, Dusty. Since the man of death had turned to such a state that the Council of Europe had already begun to consider him on an urgent basis. I'm sure that the developers will agree to understand the category of equipment and consider all its factors. But I'd like to get back to this painful problem. It's not a forced idea, it's not an emotional game, it's an unforgivable sin to play on the blood, it's just a hard experience for me to have direct contact with hot spots where the most elemental logic is replacing the knife, the bullet, the grenade, the mine. And the turnover of the death conveyor is increasing. And the launch mechanism is in Kosovo, and the maximum opening in Iraq. And what he's done is he's on a global scale and he's already threatening world peace, we all know. Even the extreme apologists of the superstate realized that unprovoked aggression had been committed against Iraq because the reasons for the occupation had proved false. The so - called coalition spreads under pressure of facts, direct falsifications in our eyes. And that's why Ukraine's in a particularly strange situation: for the first time in its history, it's "willful snolches" who have been called aggressors. I'm going to do it again in italics: it's not just a war, it's a clash with a civilization that's supposed to avenge the slightest insult under the laws of the ancestors. By guarding against even inadvertently calling for calamity, I simply urge all the MPs to call our sons home as soon as possible. By doing so, we will demonstrate the wisdom and courage of governmental men. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u96	For reasons, please write this down. Three minutes of motive. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali, Olga Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u97	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! In fact, the course of discussion shows that the Supreme Council is expressing a legitimate concern about a particular issue of terrorism and that the spread of terrorism in Ukraine, unfortunately, is facilitated by modern power. And I'm focusing on a cabinet of ministers that's just missing. Perhaps he has rightly concluded that he has nothing left to do, and he sees himself as retired. So I think we should no longer convince each other, but focus on the technology that we should work on these two relevant bills. So the position of the faction of Victor Yushchenk's bloc is as follows: we vote on the basis of both bills, we don't accept any of them as a whole, and we have been tasking the profiling committee to finalize these bills so that they can be put into effect since New 2005. Thank you for your attention, and I think this position will find understanding and support in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u98	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am very grateful to all the deputies who have understood this problem, who have responded understandingly to this problem and to my efforts to explain it somehow. And this gave hope to the people who are awaiting this law today, because you remember the Horn of Curves, there are many who have been hurt, there are some who have been torn off their feet, and there are others. And these people today are awaiting this law. Thank you again, and I'm ready to work with Dusty Po. to enforce this law and it was the only one for our Ukraine, for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u100	Stanislaw Nikolayenko gives John Sidorovich the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! I think the bill we are discussing deserves support, but I would like to make some warnings. We need to be aware that Ukraine is already involved in an international terror zone that is being brought into control. And the very participation of Ukraine in this war of civilizations that spread on the earth of ancient Babylon is what I mean in Iraq. And the second. Now one of the candidates for the Presidents, and now the acting Prime Minister, is particularly speculating on the subject of dual citizenship. So I want our voters to understand that it's also involving Ukraine in an area of international terror. Because, for example, if Ukrainian citizens become citizens of Russia, they will be obliged to serve in the Russian army and to comply with all the laws of Russia that apply. And this is also Ukraine's involvement in the Chechnya war, and this is also the area that brings Ukraine into the zone of international terror. And we need to understand what follows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u102	Bills are closed. There is a proposal for adoption on the basis of two draft laws with the commission of committees to refine them and make them read twice. No warning? Then I beg your pardon! I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt laws 2402, 2402-1 on the status and social protection of citizens who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act or diversion. [[We've already taken it for reasons.]] Please vote. [[11:52:05]] For-183 Now, one minute! We're going to vote right now, let's mobilize! Now Rudzkowski is telling you. Dear colleagues, what difference does it make to read again, first or first? Now we have to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u103	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that we are already, let's face it, we have a difficult situation, some factions don't vote, but let's stick to the Rules. You can't bet that two laws together we vote. Then let us take the 22 that we have in the message of the day, and we will vote together. Why can't we put each other together? If not, then take one as a base and join the other. Why do we make our Rules incomprehensible? I'm asking you, the law is necessary, it needs to be adopted, because we have terror at our doorstep. If we also get armed opposition during the election race, it will end up a disaster for the state. The Law must be adopted without delay, but according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u104	I mean, dear colleagues, we haven't broken the Rules yet. When the Supreme Council agreed, we accepted accordingly. I'd just like to ask you not to give the right comments and put them all together. Let's be tolerant, don't do the negative right now, we're going to do the function. School, please, on behalf of me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, mine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I wanted to emphasize here, but I want you to pay attention to our faction, because the words we asked us to actually suggest that we do the following. The laws in principle are, well, I don't think they've hurt anyone. Accordingly, the Supreme Council should rule out: If it does no harm, it is in principle possible to vote. But what I would like to do is that the limit is clearly set, which is just the first reading, because the laws need to be. Both bills need to be redrafted. Plus, we have, thank God, terrorism if there is, not the kind of plan that the nations of the world warn about, that is, we have first state terrorism, or power, as the chief general terrorist. So I think, in order to get out of the Colosseum, we can proceed as follows -- in turn, we can vote on the bill and not go back to that question. One in a row, one in a row. And support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u106	What further warnings in this regard? What suggestions? Nigger. I would like to say, honourable national deputies, there are two terms: terrorism and terror. These are different things. Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u107	Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction of Viktor Yushchenka. Dear colleagues, the subject is extremely topical. A problem that needs to be solved. And I think we need to adopt a law in the first reading. But since there are two bills, one of them needs to be voted on, taken as a basis, and then added to the second reading and from the second bill all the right suggestions. But I think this is a matter to be settled. Moreover, I would like to point out that, thank God, our country is bypassing terrorism. But we have terrorism on the part of government agencies, internal affairs agencies, the Security Service. And maybe we should think about how to protect our citizens from this terror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u108	Thank you. We're going to vote now, one minute. Your Honor, as much as you can say. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Those of you who talk about what really is meant for us to vote separately, and one of the bills that we've adopted as a basis, are absolutely right. But there is one thing. In our practice, there were times when we went to the point where we adopted two bills as a basis, What is more, you see, is the consent of the profiling committee to agree that both bills should be adopted on the first reading as a basis, and the committee commits itself to the second reading to pass an already harmonized bill. I'd like to ask, let's support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u110	Gavriluk. What's wrong? Three minutes, please. Well, you can't do that all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u111	At its meeting, the “Centre” Deputy Group decided to re-read. But given that Grigori Korneevich is 75 years old, we support the option of the one that has passed by the day of the birth of Grigori Korneevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u112	I'll take the vote, please. I'm going to put the bills in order. The first is to vote on the basis of the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by a terrorist act or diversion. [[Registration number 2402]] Please vote. Well, we won't make any decisions then. [[11:57:39]] For-140. What did you want, dear colleagues? I offered a normal offer. Yeah, now, one minute. I'm voting on the basis of the bill, registration number 2402-1. Please vote. [[11:58:09]] For the 110. What's the matter? May I have your attention now? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of two draft laws and commissioning the committee on second reading to prepare one coherent draft. Please vote. Vote please! [[11:58:42]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. By factions, please: “Our Ukraine” - 72, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 19, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 9, “Union” - 1, “One Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 12, “NDP” - 4, “Deminicatives” - 0, “O” - 9. I'm begging you! Re-reading is a postponement of the bill! If you need it, you insist! You just have to do it on the first reading so the committee can work. No, that's not necessary. Don't vote! Once again, I am voting on the basis of draft laws on the status and social protection of citizens who have suffered as a result of a terrorist act or diversion, registration number 2402, 2402-1. Vote please! Vote please! [[12:00:01]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the two draft laws, registration numbers 2402, 2402-1. [[12:00:28]] For 219 Bills are rejected. What do you want? We need to make it. You don't have to sleep. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. At 12: 30 p.m., we will consider the issue of the election of judges. Please be in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the question of the election of judges is under review. Judges are all present. Invite more national deputies to the session room. Vasil Vasilovich, please head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legal Policy considered the submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s Supreme Court’s election to the posts of judges, appeals courts of the areas listed in your materials, as well as the judges of the local courts. And they've considered every candidate from the judges. Where there were problems in some of the judges, given the situation that we did not fully recommend, we did not recommend them. Now you've been brought to your attention by judges who have no comment. And please support them. First of all, before the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region, it is recommended to select Lachenko Oksana Volodymyr and Osian Alexia Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Gorbljany Jaroslav Dmitrovic; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Netzko Marina Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd District of Head Anatoly Meletiyovich; the local Staromis District Court of Vinznice, Vengrin Oksana Omelyanovna; the local Krasnoggardsky District Court of Dnipropetrovsk Semipaedal Valerija Alexiyovich; the local Ordjonikidzew district court of Mariupol Donetsk district of Ponomarenko Georgi Ivanovich; to the local Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Krivosheev Dmitr Arnoldovich, Chernisov Jurija Viktorovich; To the local Melitopol District Court of Zaporez Region of Kolodin Love Volodymyrna; the local Kalu District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Gavrilenko Viktor Grigorovich; the local Lutugini District Court of the district of Lugansk, Zabotin Viktorovich; the local district court of the city of Mikolayeva, Pavlova Janna Petrovna; the local Rhine District Court of the Odessa District of Dudnik Viacheslav Ivanovich; the local Lenin district court of Poltava Andruszczenka Sergio Anatoliyovich; the local Borovsky District Court of the Gulyev district of Hanna Mikolayevna; the local Provincial District Court of Kharkiv Arkatow Catherine Vitaliyevna; the local Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna district of Hudik Mikol Pavlovich; the local Slavutsky District Court of the Hmelnick district of Roik Valentine Petrovna; the local Zolotani District Court of Cherkas, Savenka Valeri Grigorovitch; the local Chigirian District Court of the Cherkas region of Tkachenko Svetlana Eugene; the local right-wing district court of Kyiv Malchenko Oksana Valentinovna; and the local Obolonian District Court of Kiev, Bistrik Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the committee head? None. Then I beg you now. Invite more deputies to the session room. Yavorowski, please. And prepare for registration, honorary colleagues, for the vote, more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u116	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! Vladimir Yavorowski. You said we should vote in favour of the Kalusian Court today. Is that Caluga in Russia or what he meant?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u117	Kalussky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u118	Kalussky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u119	So say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u120	And you have it right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u121	Yes, dear colleagues, what other questions are there? Please prepare for registration, voting, your honors. Please prepare for the vote. Come on, let's go. Yes, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Supreme Council ruling on the election of judges, registration number 6275 as a ruling. Please vote. [[12:38:01]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's welcome. The factions? Let's see. Factions: “Our Ukraine” - 89, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPO - 15, Block Timoshenko - 19, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 13, NDP and PPU - 3, “Deminiciative” - 0, “Deminicative” - 13. Let us, dear fellows, greet the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis and wish them well. [[Applause]] . Self - sacrificing service. Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We agreed, dear colleagues, after the break. May I have your attention, please? That after the break we're voting on the two draft laws that we put in, 2402 and 2402-1 to correct them. To accept them as a basis and instruct the committees to work on one coherent project. We agreed to vote. I'm voting on this proposal: adoption on the basis of draft laws, registration numbers 2402, 2402-1 with the commission of committees to submit one coordinated draft to the second reading. Please vote. [[12:40:02]] For 221 I'm going to vote again. Don't make it. Let's make it. I'm voting once again on this proposal: the adoption of the draft laws of 2402, 2402-1, so that the only coordinated project can be put to second reading. Please vote. [[12:40:40]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill amending the Ukrainian Social Services Act. [[concerning market participants in the services market]] Who will report? Peter Mikolaiovich Cibenko, please. Dear colleagues, here are all the decisions. Now Peter Stepanovich Zibenko will brief you and we will vote. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u122	I think that those of you who have been to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons for some time may remember that we are grateful for every initiative aimed at strengthening the social protection of our disadvantaged people. Sadly, three quarters of the people today need such social support. That bill, submitted by Anatoly Matthewian, is not an exception. I am absolutely convinced that man wanted to do a good job for people. But part of this bill is part of things that need to be supported, there's part of things that he offers, but they're already regulated in other legislation, but there's also part of things that are completely unacceptable and cannot be supported at this stage. So, in view of that, the committee made this decision -- recommending that the author take into account the comments that were made during the discussion of the bill at the committee meeting and submit it for re-reading with the fact that the committee could then support it. Unfortunately, at this point in time, he cannot be supported by a committee. Thank you. So we're going to send this document back to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, can we really listen to the committee's proposal and re-read it? Please, let's exchange our thoughts. Mironenko. Then Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u124	5 constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! This bill is extremely important because it concerns an extremely suffering part of the population, which requires some protection and care. But there are a number of shortcomings in the bill that need to be excluded and that is why we, the Communist faction, support the need to finalize the bill. Among other things, it must be borne in mind that those who do charitable activities and are not connected with public and public services, but are either volunteers or employees of charities, enterprises and so on, must undergo certain medical examinations and so on, in order not to spread the disease, should also take into account that all these organizations must act within the framework of laws and that this will only benefit the cause. I would also like to draw attention to the draft bill's consideration of the dangerous focus, the inclusion of social funds in the State budget. What's the big deal? I think everyone understands that the various holes will be closed by the Government through this manipulation, and the work being done to help people who are single, underprivileged, underprivileged, unemployed, and so on will not be helped. And the problem, let's say, with unemployment and so on, is very acute. She'll get worse. The problem of street people without housing is acute. It will also get worse. Therefore, I would like to invite all factions in no way to support this direction if we are really thinking about the interests of our fellow countrymen. I would also like to draw attention to what we have to do to address these activities, but in a fundamental way to address issues such as unemployment. Indeed, job creation must be a reality. To that end, this capitalist focus must be halted, the economy should be developed in an orderly manner and jobs would be created and so on. This is what Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko insists on as a candidate for presidents, and we also need to think about housing, and really, free of charge, as was the case with socialism, with communists. Again, only Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko can do this. There is a need for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u125	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Out of place, please turn on the microphone. Get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u126	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! There's been an absolutely paradoxical situation where out of the 7 million of our employees who are abroad, more than half of them are providing social services to Italians, Spaniards, Portuguese, Poles, and they're getting pitiful bills. For example, in the same country, Ukrainians are paid for these services, and the same services provided by the Polish to the Germans are paid several times as much. Because of our actual service market today, as we call it very loud, it's completely empty. Because of this subject, the idea that is set in the amendment to this law and in the Social Services Market Act itself is very important for Ukraine. However, after examining those bills, one that is submitted by some MPs, other MPs, I'll tell you what's there, and of course there are some interesting things. For me personally, and I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, am addressing you, I think this is where this thought has already spoken, I would support it simply because it's very important these amendments, and I'm convinced that if these are two different bills, they're going to be hard to get votes for here, you could just transfer them back to the first reading. I know you don't like it, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, but from my point of view, there's just no other way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Isayovich, we're looking at one draft law, we're looking at 5254 now, it's one project. Please, Boris Bespali. After that, we made our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u128	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, in this bill, introduced by Anatoly Matthewian, there are things that we think are unworthy to put off. First of all, he proposes to regulate how social assistance is used not just for the costs of government or local budgets, that is, local funds, budget, donate, funds, and not allow them to be. I want them to rip themselves apart. From this point of view, I'd like to say that maybe I don't agree with the one thesis previously expressed in this rostrum that the funds of non-budgetary funds are better controlled. Let's take the reports of such a qualified institution in our Parliament as the Court of Auditors, and we'll see that it's the extra-budgetary that is being used more in an unearmarked way, all the more so that even in maintaining these extra-budgetary funds themselves, there's serious money and that's the money that's being deducted from the low-security segments of the population. So I think the tendency to reduce non-budgetary funds is a good trend, the budget needs to be implemented, controlled and prevented from being ripped apart. The second reason why I think this bill is very relevant. In fact, social assistance has been removed today. There are tens of thousands of public organizations in Ukraine, many of which have their statutory tasks and are really helping people. I can refer, for example, to the public organizations that work in the constituency that I have the privilege of representing, these are the charities of Turbot, the Jerells, who work with presses like disabled people, people who have slowed down mental development and work very usefully, and they have a hard time working today. Next. By this law, I wanted to draw attention to another needy part of society, namely, the social workers themselves. Do you know, dear friends, that today's average wage for social workers, I repeat, the average, not the minimum, is lower than the minimum wage that is today. It's a totally abnormal situation. In a week there will be a social worker's day, I think there will be flowers and gifts, but I would like to address this part of my speech as a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, requiring that social workers pay a minimum wage at least below the subsistence minimum, while preserving inter-employment ratios, so that those who work longer and qualified receive a higher salary. Because it's totally not normal when people who care about and care about socially vulnerable species are themselves or not the poorest and not the least protected. I hope the government will finally listen to this cry of needy people and meet them. Hopefully this project will be supported in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u129	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u130	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, radio listeners, those who see us. I want to say this. After my words, I believe that if there was a candidate I respected for Presidents Simonenko Petr Nikolaevich, he would vote in favour of this law on first reading. And that's why. First, social services in Ukraine are not working. If you don't support this bill, gentlemen of the Communists, it will be a problem. Because today there are people who can't leave the house who are completely outside of all social services. Without voting for this project, you're giving them a problem. Second. They should not be in the form of State ownership only. Half the cockroaches there, they don't like these people at all. Love your neighbor as yourself. And it's not defined by ideology, he's either a communist or a capitalist or a bourgeois or something else. It's decided only on one with God. And by the way, who's listening to our broadcast, call your loved ones and your loved ones, it's very important. I want you to escort the neighbors who can't leave the house. Now pray that we adopt this bill on first reading. It's very important. What is it? Today, for example, the Kiev State Administration, headed by Omelchenko, will do so if you do not vote in favour of the bill. Let's move on. He buys a $12 million plane and flies on it when people die of hunger in the districts. He's got pensions, he can't get a man out of the house. Look at these social workers who they've become. There's a lot of organizations, there's plenty of people with a conscience. Above all, these are church organizations that can and should walk with God and do what they do to care for them. Please support this bill, it's very important. Those who do not support him will vote that those people who cannot leave the house should remain in the same condition as they are today. I've been to some friends recently. I'm going out. My grandmother follows me and says, "Buy me a loaf of bread, son." She's starving, she can't go down and go to the store. These are social services that, during the elections, turn into a problem for Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, because they pay bribes to the poor, impoverished voters who then vote for whom they do not know. Please vote for him. Because otherwise you will vote against justice. The law is just. On first reading, it must be accepted. And you don't have to plow from place to place, take your word and speak. This is very important for the First Secretary. Vote! And be sure to carry out today, as we are discussing this law today, our neighbours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u131	I only ask one thing: If we want a decision to be made, we do not need to make an accusation against each other. Please. Please, the chairman of the Committee, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Please, calm down! Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u132	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, to those who do not know the Rules very well, I would like to remind them that I have reported the opinion of the committee of profile, not the opinion of the faction of Communists to which the previous speaker referred. This is the first time. It's different. To those who have so much pain for our disadvantaged citizens, I propose to come to the committee. Sadly, there are nine people working there today. So come, Reverend, and work. And we don't need to be taught how to work. Third thing I wanted to say. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to testify that the document, the committee's draft, the idea, is supported. But there are things that need to be improved significantly. So given the discussion I've been having, I'm taking down the previous position of the profiling committee, the thought that I've reported. And if the Supreme Council makes a positive decision, we'll be working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Proposing a profile committee, it's a little bit out of line with the position of scientific expertise. The committee's proposal is to adopt the bill as the basis. That's why I'm voting on this proposal -- the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Social Services Act. Registration number 5254. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:56:57]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. You don't have to. Thank you. Well, please. Well, thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion of draft laws into the agenda. draft law. draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. We talked at the Conciliation Council about what we would put in order of the day. Philip Philipovich, please. In short, we will then vote so that the committee can work and the appropriate committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! In the agenda of the day session, the following bills are proposed to amend the Law of Ukraine on the List of Property Rights Objects Not Privatized, including the Registration Number of Law 6130 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin to include in this Law VAT "Turboatom", registration number 6131 of the People's Deputies of Rudenko on the exclusion from the Law of VAT "Bilšvik", registration number 6132 of the People's Deputies of Kruk and Rudenka on the exclusion from this Law of the Kerchen Shipbuilding Plant and the Ishmael Ship Repair Plant, registration number 6133 of the People's Deputity of Seminuk, to include in the law the list of shares belonging to the State of Wat "Turboat". The explanatory note for the above-mentioned bills is given. Right behind you, people's deputies. Please put them to the vote for inclusion in the agenda, and I would like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, under each law separately. Each and every one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u135	May I have your attention, please? It is a matter of incorporating into the order of the laws of the day so that they can be prepared for consideration. I am voting on the inclusion of registration number 6130 in the agenda of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian law on the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, the author of the Karmazin National Deputy. It's about Turbot. Please vote. [[12:59:33]] For 227 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Not Privatized, registered number 6130-1, author of the National Deputy Hennadi Rudenko. It's the Bolshevik. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:00:13]] For the The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The vote is on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Not Privatized, registration number 6130-2, authors: People's Deputies Kruk and Rudenko. It is the Kerchen Ship Repair Plant and the Ishmael Ship Repair Plant. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:00:59]] For two. The decision is not taken. It is the vote: on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized", registration number 6130-3. It's about the Harkovturboat and the Odessa port factory. Please vote. [[13:01:40]] For 227 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian State Service Act is being announced for consideration. [[on first and second group disability]] Who will report from the committee? Boris Yakovitch, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian State Service Act. [[on persons with disabilities I and II]] The committee proposes that the bill be adopted, but not adopted in any way in general, because there are issues that need further development. The committee also obliged me to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not the Cabinet, as it says, the subject of the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Yanukovich. It's not a private institution. With this amendment, we propose to adopt this bill. Moreover, the other committees that lead do not deny the acceptance of this. [[Hara, Cibenko, Dusty and Tarasyuk]] against the adoption of this bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u137	What are some warnings? Is there a need to discuss the draft law? Is it? Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Two-for-two-again. Victor Mironenko has the right to speak. The Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u138	5th District, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! The Communist faction will support the bill. However, I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to continue to give you the opportunity to speak on the ground. In this case, you didn't give me a chance to read the bill, and you didn't give me a chance to speak for reasons. In the meantime, in this case, you have violated the Rules. Second. For the second time, draft laws relating to the privatization of ship repair plants have been tried for the second time in a short period. And I'm afraid they'll last. The majority will continue these bills, thereby causing enormous damage, further damage to the people living in these regions. In particular, in the town of Kerchi, almost all businesses are privatized, and only the ship repairs and individual ones are still working, but once privatized, they will naturally work the same way. That was destroyed and sold in the form of scrap metal abroad, these privatizers, the so-called Democrats, the supporters of capitalism. Kerchribprom, The search has been eliminated, and we are all watching and waiting and quietly continue to vote and vote. Kerchen Metalworks, Shipbuilding Plant. People don't get paid. How much can you do? I would like to refer to those deputies who have passed a bill for the second time on the privatization of ship repair plants. Remember, they say they believe in God. But fear Allah, if you believe. You're trying to wear crosses, but it's hypocrisy. Is it possible to destroy people and to say that you believe in God, that you deprive them of your jobs, that you deprive them of your livelihood? So, please, don't make this bill for the privatization of ship repair plants anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, please. He's out. Vladimir Yavorowski. Microphone, please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u140	I give the word to Chernowitz, he asks very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u141	Leonid Chernewicki, please. Nor is it. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Of course, it's a shame that there's no National Deputy Carmazin here, which is probably the first time there's not a bill discussion on this stand. But I would like to point out that today we can clearly say that the bill proposed today needs our support. I would like to stress that because we can talk a lot about the quality or inadequacy of the bills that are being proposed, we need our support in this situation. What can be said of the support of the Supreme Council? This is in the first reading to support and then allow the committee to further develop and propose to the Supreme Council, and later to the users of this law, the Ukrainian people, a quality full document. So I think that would be absolutely true right now plus what I'm going to emphasize: The Supreme Council is now working productively and objectively in every case, with every bill and all that talk about the fact that the Supreme Council is not currently in the process of lawmaking and lawmaking, it has crossed everything out of our productive, emphasising, activity. Now, literally a few minutes ago, I listened to the media and heard such information that the session of the Supreme Council was successfully blocked. Now, I'd like everyone who can hear us right now to understand that there's no blocking. Those people, those national MPs, they're not blocking a session of the Supreme Council, not the Ukrainian Parliament, they're blocking their electorate because they can't resist the powers that voters have given them in this situation. So now and today, I would urge everyone here to work in this mode, in which we started to work very well early this week, so that we can finish. So in the first reading, I would urge everyone here to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u143	Leonid Chernewicki, please. The last speaker. With motive, fine, I will. People's deputies please come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party, Leonid Chernovetski. First of all, I want to apologize if someone understands my irony sometimes in the speech, because I really respect Communists and that's what I'm different from many MPs who divide into communists, non-communists and others. It's important because you can turn to your conscience, you can solve the question, it's important. And I want this law to be supported and voted in general, because I tell you that, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we know very well, working in the same system in the past time, that before the government officials did not take bribes, they were in the Communist Party and served the people without bribes. Well, almost no bribes, that's the truth. Today, I would be the only one who would put on second reading that there are no pensions to be given today, because they do not recognize anything other than bribes. It's a very important topic, because it's enough for them to take away their pensions and drink the blood of the Ukrainian people. That's the only thing the whole government does today from place to place to top. It's really a criminal government. And I want to pay attention to that. Maybe there's some kind of correction in that sense. But in general, this law must be voted on because it concerns past officials, whom we can respect, regardless of party ownership, for nothing else. In general, I would like to say that these people who served for the State are waiting for us, and it was an honour to serve in the State institutions. We have very offended them, I know that in pension legislation, I cannot refer to articles, very many problems, and many of them receive fewer pensions than only disabled persons, we need to submit bills immediately, and I believe that this may belong to the left-wing legislator concerning civil servants of the past years. Many of them receive pensions below the palaces of today, which is a big problem, no matter what position he held and how good he did for the country. That's why this law has to be passed immediately, because there's nothing, and that's understandable. This refers to a very important part of society of people who have served our State honestly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. No, it's not. Thank you. Well, it's just us. Karnauh Mikola, please. And the last speaker, let's move on to the vote. May I have your attention, please? Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters. This bill was presented to us by the government, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but there is no man in the cabinet. This is disrespect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nevertheless, we are wise people, we will work. And in disrespect of us on the part of the government, let us express our mistrust to such a government. I propose to express my mistrust to Prime Minister Yanukovic and to resign him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 37 of the National Service Act on First and Second Group Persons with Disabilities. Registration number 5345. Please vote. [[13:13:05]] For 239. What's that? What? Dear colleagues, we can't. It's not a legal norm. Honorable colleagues when a program of government activity is approved. Let's not be, let's be solid, dear fellows. I beg you, let's show solidarity. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the exercise by disabled persons of the right to employment is being announced for consideration. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u148	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Zibenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I submit the request of Valery Mikhailovich Suškević, the author of the bill, he is now ill, that without his presence this document should not be considered, he has serious differences with the committee on this bill. So if no one objects, I'd like to take this document off because it's a little awkward because there's no author. He would like to participate personally in the discussion of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the committee to postpone consideration in connection with objective circumstances. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u150	Thank you. The cloud, please, the microphone. Stephen Cloudy's microphone. Yes, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u151	Yulia Tymoshenko's block, Fatherland's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill can be adopted today in the first reading and processed for second reading, correcting all the inadequacies that are there. Today, we need to be accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, perhaps let's say that since it's done, there are different points of view. Then, on the second reading, we will be able to give Valery Suskhewicz a reason for the importance of this bill. Now let's take it as a basis, let the committee prepare for the second reading. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u153	Then I put the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Law. Let's talk, please. I'm sorry. Take it off the vote. Yeah, let's get down to business. Vladimir Puzakov, please, the Communist faction. I'm sorry. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u154	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The changes and proposals made to the bill will contribute to improving the vitality of persons with disabilities, as well as to promoting State guarantees for the social establishment of young citizens with disabilities. The city’s district organization, UTOS, has 1,175 people with disabilities, I and II. This is 70 percent of the elderly, the disabled, the veterans of war and labor. In the area, there are two enterprises for blind people — Kirovograd and Alexandria. Under market conditions, these enterprises maintained special rehabilitation structures on their own. At present, as a result of the competitive struggle of UTOS companies, it is not possible for people with disabilities to benefit from income, customs, recreation, housing, and others. During Ukraine’s years of independence, civil society organizations and disabled companies in the UTOS have lost a number of positive gains that have been obtained through hard and hard work, namely, a significant decline in wages, an increase in competition in the unregulated market, a decline in the volume of production produced due to the decline in demand for it, the inability to develop new products, and the inability to keep the social sphere in proper condition. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents, repeatedly said that it was necessary to decide at the national level on the granting of disability benefits to the first and second groups of sight on payment for utilities and energy, and to release families where two or more persons with disabilities were in sight. To supplement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of September 12, 1991, by legalizing free travel for accompanying disabled persons from the perspective of the first group, to increase the amount of disability allowance in the first group's view and to provide for a 50 per cent discount by law on the payment of medicines to blind people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u155	Victor Mironenko, please prepare for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u156	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! In any State of the world, people with disabilities seek to approach persons with disabilities carefully, for each State has a choice: either to condemn persons with disabilities to their own survival is a terrible, wild, immoral position, and I think that Ukraine is not as good as other States; and the second option is to provide persons with disabilities with sufficient means to live more or less normally. The third is to provide work. Whether there is an opportunity for Ukraine to provide the means of disabled persons without considering working with persons with disabilities. Clearly, there is no such thing. Thank God, there's a good socialist tradition, and she's not going to die, and she's going to develop. And those who say that supposedly socialism, communism -- it's already gone, either misunderstood or specifically sought to preserve the capitalist orientation, the thief's, the privatist's so-called democratic focus in the name of its own enrichment or in the name of getting from the table or from the pocket of the oligarch -- whichever faction it refers to -- from the pocket of the oligarch or from some foreign fund for a great living. And I remind those who have just smiled to the point that communism is the best idea in the world, because it implies the right of everyone to social justice, the right of everyone to work, rest, housing, normal human life, free of charge, free health, and free health and education. And can we stand against this idea, against the social protection of the population that we had in socialism, with the communists? Another question is: We had shortcomings, but at the same time we remember that there were more dignity than shortcomings, and we had to get rid of those shortcomings and all the good things in the world to do. Regrettably, those who call themselves Democrats are actually supporters of capitalism, specifically eliminating socialism for their own profit. I would ask those who have made a mistake to admit their mistake. The Academy of Fears, the academics, the wisest, the noblest man, he acknowledged openly, twice on television, that it was necessary to go along the path of socialism, the Union of the Republic, to develop socialism and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u157	Alexander Novak, Communist faction. Get ready. Vladimir, I'm sorry, Novak. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u158	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. Dear colleagues, the bill that we are considering today is aimed at providing people with disabilities equal to other citizens with opportunities to participate in all spheres of society. It is customary to judge the level of society by how it cares about its incapacitated members. If this is the criterion for assessing the state’s level of concern about disabled people in Ukraine, this work cannot withstand any criticism. Let's face it, this same defenseless category of people is left alone with all their troubles. In this hard life, where there is a constant struggle for survival, where a fully healthy and hardworking person has to look for a job to earn a penny on existence, where prices are several times higher than pensions or wages, the disability depends on practically all the negative factors of social life. When I meet in my daily work in the district with representatives of this population category, I hear these statements all the time: "We don't need compassion and supplies, create conditions for us to work and earn ourselves." The author of the project is also trying to clarify the rules of current legislation on social protection of persons with disabilities, establish legislative frameworks to increase the effectiveness of existing legislation and introduce additional State guarantees for employment of persons with disabilities. The project provides employers with the responsibility to comply with the standards of employment of disabled persons, requiring them to ensure the employment of disabled persons through the creation of special jobs. This is a very important moment. Because even statutory quotas for the creation of workplaces for people with disabilities are not being implemented. Some employers try to avoid creating jobs for the disabled in all manner of ways, and they are not even responsible. In general, by supporting the draft law, I would like to make my remarks. This law would, in my opinion, need to establish a legislative basis for the professional training of disabled people. A lot of good feedback is being heard today about the work of the all-U.S. Center for Professional Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons, which has become a leading institution, but it's very difficult to get there alone, and it's not going to solve all the problems of disabled people on Ukraine's scale. A clear state system of vocational training for disabled people is needed, a system that enables them to take over their professions locally. But what can be said here is that if this power, our authority here, doesn't even want to take care of a healthy person. And where she can take care of a disabled person. I think this law is extremely necessary, and I will vote for it, and I urge my colleagues to vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u159	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorovski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u160	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, I am pleased that we are usually in solidarity with and in view of this bill. Well, that's what happened, maybe we're a unique state in the world, and hardly anyone can compete with us, because, in fact, our nation has turned into a factory for the reproduction of the disabled. How not bitter and sad to talk about it. But look at the latest tragedies, the latest events for about 15-20 years. That's how much he took out of our society and turned into disabled only one Chernobyl that he went through. Hundreds of thousands came, completely unprepared, and no one ever thought about them for one second. And we don't know where those guys today who, from the roof of the 4th reactor, rolled up the uranographic scraps of Uranographic Bars. Who are they? Where are they? Can they continue our Ukrainian race? Another part of people with disabilities are from price cuts, from undernutrition and malnutrition. You see, here today this thought has already spoken, I would just like to emphasize it once again that level. The humanistic level of society, the level of kindness in society, and understanding in society are primarily the treatment of people with disabilities. You look at other countries. From some basic things, such as whether it's a theater or a store, it's an opportunity to take a wheelchair. We don't have that until today. Because of this question today about at least making life easier for the disabled and today adopting this bill for those who can still work to be able to work, because for today's short-lives, we usually have people who are mindless and inhumane. I don't generalize it, but it really is, and today it's hard to take a disabled person to work, let's say, someone who already owns a business or something. Because I'm convinced that this bill today, we've adopted a lot of them today, they're all needed, and this one carries a special, as it were, humanistic aspect, and I'm going to vote for it, and I think "Our Ukraine" is going to vote in favour of this bill as well as representatives of other factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u161	Thank you. Mikoli Rudzkowski's microphone, please. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u162	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Until Ukraine has a socially oriented state and executive power that will be interested in resolving the issues of ordinary people who cannot care for themselves, the disabled will remain the last in the budget funding line. That is why we must adopt this law and protect any disabled person. But we have to think about the President's election. We're going to have fair authority, we're going to have concern for the disabled and the eyesight and the others. But the authorities are now struggling desperately for their preservation. Yes, in Chernigov 19 numbers attacked the trusted person Alexander Alexander Moroz Dmitry Ivanov, editor of the newspaper "Hart", Kocuba Ivan Ivanovich, deputy district police. Now they're in jail, students, there's a student strike tomorrow. I'm going out there with Stanislaw Nicholas. We need to get involved, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u164	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please! Of course, if the police are now concerned about the fact that teaching groups and students are not starting to learn but going out on the street, the Supreme Council should react in some way. Give appropriate assignments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u165	Okay. I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. A black man with a motive because he was written down. We're going to vote now. Volodymyr Kirilovich Cherniak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, of course, need to do everything in order to reduce the number of people with disabilities. We have many disabilities in production, environmental - related disabilities, diseases, and so forth. If there are better living conditions, the disabled will be fewer. If the authorities care for the common people, the disabled will be fewer. Sadly, though, the situation is that people with disabilities are very numerous. And our sacred duty and executive power and legislative authority is to create the right conditions for them to live, and above all for those who can and want to work to secure employment. And first of all, of course, we have an acute problem of employment, unemployment, but first of all, we need to solve the problems of employment of people with disabilities, provide them with jobs so that they can have a job and a decent life. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enjoyment by disabled persons of the right to employment has been completed. Let's move on to the vote. May I have your attention, please? The vote will take place. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the enjoyment by persons with disabilities of the right to employment, registration number 3668. Please vote. [[13:31:39]] For 228 Decision taken. It is announced for consideration, please note, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[on children with disabilities and adoption]] Registration numbers 2522, 4258, 4258-1, 5106, 5177. Please, Rudzkowski. Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u168	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that the government is not in the session room right now. And I'd like the bills to make their point. I think an element of influence on the government to start going to the Supreme Council might be the action that the Socialists are doing on Tuesday at 15 hours 26 a.m. across Ukraine, taking care of the district administrations and the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue of high prices and inaction of government and government officials. We invite all the national MPs and Ukrainian citizens in all the district centers, all the Chinese to go to Kabmin, the district administrations, to express their position on the government's inaction in this matter. 26, 3 p.m. Please come and express your sense of trust or mistrust to an active government. And then when the Ukrainians are under Kabmin and under the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, Alexander Belovil had reported that he was missing. But the document is, the decision is. Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich, get ready for Vasyunika.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u170	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished deputies. Act 4258 proposes to streamline articles 283 of the Family Code and article 24 of the Child Protection Act. The point is that these articles correspond. However, due to the adoption of the Family Code, the Child Protection Act should be amended accordingly. This law is supported by a professional committee. And there are comments from the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council. And, Vladimir Mihajlovich, if the deputies do not object to the comments of the Directorate-General, the law could be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u171	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vasjunik. None. But the conclusion is all. Then it's roadside. None. Michael Loboda, please, from the committee. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u172	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! These five laws that had been passed were considered by the committee. By the way, I want to say that the laws are similar. There is no alternative law. So the committee considered and suggested that they should be accepted as a basis and, in the second reading, that all five laws should be combined into one law and adopted after the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u173	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich, will you report yours? Fellow dignitaries, now 2525 — a bill authored by Alexander Volkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, you know, I rarely speak out of the rostrum, but this law is truly a matter of hearing. I very much ask you to uphold this law. You see the faction, the non-fractional faction voting today, supporting you. Less than 13, 14 we give. Keep this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u175	Thank you. Yeah, we'll talk about it, okay? None. Then, dear fellows, I will now put to the vote. The first is the bill amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act 2522, by Alexander Volkov, please vote. [[13:36:29]] For 235 Decision taken. It's about voting a bill amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, registration number 4258, author of the National Deputy Kosinov and other National MPs. [[13:37:00]] For a hundred and Why do we have such respectable colleagues? Well, let's move on. Then we'll come back. Let's move on. The bill amending the Ukrainian Children's Protection Act, registration number 4258-1, author of the National Deputy of Vasjunik is on the vote. [[concerning adoption of children]] Please vote. [[13:37:40]] For 223 Now let's vote, then let's see. The bill amending Ukraine's Law to article 21 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act prohibits the worst forms of child labour, registration number 5106, author of the National Deputy Kosinov. Please vote. We've already reported it, please vote. The vote is coming. [[13:38:17]] For 237 Copy that. The bill amending the Ukrainian Children's Protection Act, registration number 5177, author of the National Deputy of the Road. Please vote. [[13:38:46]] For the 180. The law is not adopted. May I have your attention now? Dear colleagues, the author. Well, I remember everything. We are now voting on these laws, which have gained almost the necessary number of votes. The draft Act No. 4258-1 amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, the author of which is the National Deputy Vasjunik. [[concerning adoption of children]] Please vote. [[13:39:28]] For 244 Decision taken. It's a draft law, registration number 4258: "To amend the Ukrainian Child Protection Act." Authors: National Deputy Kosinov, Artemenko, Bartkov Please vote. [[13:39:59]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in order to maintain regular cleanliness, I'm going to put Alexander the Road on the project because we've all voted. I'm voting on a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, registration number 5177. The author is Alexander the Road. Please vote. [[13:40:38]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, yes, maybe we should send, if there's an offer like that, to re-read Project 4258? For reasons, please Valentina Seminouk. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u176	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, all the bills that were passed, and those that were not even accepted in the first reading, there is a reference to us, to the MPs, and to the Science and Experimental Department. So I think if you go into second reading, all of those proposals will come in. And I think we'll have to count them. And now I want to talk to the public. Here Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudzkowski said correctly: the government is not going to protect people today, it just wants to do populism. I think if we go to the Cabinet of Ministers for 15 hours on October 26 and we really ask him if he's going to do the laws, whether he's going to continue populism, driving all over Ukraine and telling us what kind of wages he's already paid, which he's already given to everyone, it turns out, disabled people and cars have given everything to the world. I don't think anyone needs a lie like that today. But at this time, prices are rising for bread, for fuel-oil materials that peasants can't sow, they can't star, they can't do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u177	Thank you. Basil Gabrieluk, Kirilchuk and then Kosinov. And we'll keep working so we don't relax.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! I would, however, ask Vladimir Mihajlovich to return to Bill 4258, which refers to the important details given in line with the Family Code, where it is very clear who has the primary right to adopt children. The author of the bill is Kosinov, Artemenko and Bartkov Vassili Pavlović. I ask you, let's put it to the vote again, let's vote, it's necessary today. The journey is complete and you know how many violations there are today. Let us systematize it, this work, and it is up to us, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u179	Eugene Kirilchuk, please. We'd take it as a base and then we'd take it as a workpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u180	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Eugene Kirilchuk, the "Fatherland" Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee stated that there was no alternative law. They're all identical, so there's no problem. We've accepted three as a basis, and the rest of us can calmly do everything that's intelligently and solely in those bills, stick to one to the other, and there's no problem, there's no need to vote on more bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u181	Kosinov, please. Stanislaw Kosinov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please reinstate Act 4258. The fact is that the Socialist faction has slightly confused the law with the bill's number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u183	City hall, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u184	Attention! Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Sergey Ratushniak. First. As long as we are intimidated by the Georgian and Serbian versions, we already have a PPP. I'm turning to all Ukrainian citizens. Dear Mr. President! Return from Crimea to fulfill your duties as a guarantor of the Constitution. You have been isolated from your direct functions. For you, the decrees are signed by facsimile. The other one. I want to make an observation to the honourable deputies. For the 60 billion that you have calculated, the taxes, taxes and cars that the citizen, the Prime Minister, and the candidate in President Yanukovic never said he would do it from the budget and don't attack him, that he wants to rob the budget. I want to speak in his defense. He didn't say it would be from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! I just want to inform you, precise date. The president of Ukraine is in Kiev. I'll put it to a vote. The offer of socialists is already there. On the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. Please vote. [[13:45:40.]] For 172 The decision is not taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Transplantation of Organs and Anatomic Materials is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the removal of organs]] Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please turn on the microphone. Please, dear fellows, we have some work to do. Please be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The author of Bachtiev Tetjana Dmitrovna's law asks that this issue be removed today and transferred to the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! There is such an offer. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a proposal by the committee that came out on behalf of the committee's deputy head to postpone the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Organ Transplantation and Anatomy Material, registration number 3510. [[concerning the removal of organs]] I am voting on the grounds that there is no objection to such a proposal. Please vote. [[13:47:00]] For-31 The Supreme Council did not support it. I would like the committee head to report on the draft of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u188	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The amendment to the law on organ and tissue transplants provides for today’s law on organ and tissue transplantation, which provides that organs and tissues may be taken for transplantation into the deceased at the consent of the family. The amendment foresees that there is no need for such agreement once brain death is established or biological death is established, and the author suggests that organs and tissues can then be taken for transplantation without consent from relatives. If, on the other hand, a person who does not agree to the taking of tissues and organs, he should have in his possession evidence that he denies the taking of organs and tissues at his death. The committee supported the bill by a majority of votes, but they were. The bill was supported by the majority by one vote. That is, the committee brought to the attention of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council's decision on whether or not to accept an amendment to the law. I objected to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u189	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We've got five national deputies. Besides, we have. Just a minute. Besides, we have a bill. The draft Decision on Inadmissibility. Author Yuri Karmazin So I think we need to talk about the inadmissibility first. If the decision is not taken, then we will discuss the bill. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the voting project. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Ukrainian National Deputy Karmazin on the inadmissibility of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Anatomic Materials of Human Beings." [[concerning the removal of organs]] [[13:49:36]] For 225 Calm down. Who is in charge of going back to the draft decision on the issue of inadmissibility? [[13:50:03]] For 224 Let's talk about it and then put it to a vote. Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Get ready, Mironka. Dear colleagues, let's have a brief discussion and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u190	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, our constituencies. Indeed, we need to be very careful about this when we discuss this bill. We have previously adopted some very humane, very needed laws that should make our society more humane and kinder. That bill that was proposed to us today, I read it and believe me, the ants were walking on the body. Having a society today that has absolutely no law enforcement organs in fact, where we have a large part of corrupt and unprofessional medicine that listens to what they say from that cabinet, and this is also evident from the discussion of the situation that happened with our leader Victor Yushchenk about his poisoning. It is not possible to adopt such a bill today. Ukraine has become famous for its children’s trade. You see how many steps we've had: both the Harkow version, and the Lviv version, Michael Gladys knows perfectly well. I mean, we already have. in the world, we're being talked about as a nation that trades children. Now we still need to be told, with the adoption of this bill, that we are still trading bodies of dead or half-dead people. In the documents we've been given today, you can read these materials from Komsomol's Truth, the horrible material where the half-lived man, yes, he's a bum, he's half-drunk there, but the doctors have already cut him out there, it seems like a kidney to transplant some rich man there. And as doctors were taken by the police, by the Moscow militia, and they were defending themselves with all the forces that they were. These are terrible things. Imagine in us today, in our situation. Tomorrow, human organs will be exported across the border from Ukraine. As a result, I fully support what the head of the Polish Health Committee said. And I think that our conscience and our human conscience, I think only the people in this faction could prepare such a bill. I don't know, by the way, what's a faction that probably lacks brains, and they'd really like to transplant other people's brains to themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, let us treat all our colleagues with respect. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. He's refusing. Andrew School, please. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u192	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I also firmly want to state that the situation that is now in Ukraine with the law enforcement system, with the health system, is that here we are absolutely justified, absolutely reasonable, we can suspect the authors of this bill that they are lobbying ordinary killings for the purpose of human beings being later analyzed into organs. Let's take another picture. Quarters. How many pensioners were killed to own another residential area. How many of these cases have not been investigated, how many have disappeared without news, and they have disappeared into the forefront of the law - enforcement system. What is said when medical and law enforcement officials enter the spike? Therefore, we do not have the right to give them reasons for doing so even through laws. I hope that such laws will never become laws. Because to regulate the organ transplant system in Ukraine, of course, but not in that way. You can't compare it here to a country with a developed democracy, with an honest system of law enforcement. We have no right to be equal to them. We must first compare ourselves with the law-enforcement system so that our law-enforcement system meets the world standards of democracy, that our medicine meets the world standards of democracy, that doctors get a decent, decent salary so that they don't even have a reason to think about such criminal transplants. Well, you know, in a country where anything is possible, I don't know, if someone else has ants in their body, it's not really adapted to Ukrainian realities. Maybe it's all there. So I am deeply sorry that the decision not to accept has not been passed. It would be absolutely logical, absolutely consistent, and a clear position of the Supreme Council, because parliamentaryism is now the last bastion to defend democracy in Ukraine. And we could very clearly and unequivocally support the law on inadmissibility in order to remove all charges both against the Supreme Council as a whole and against the parliamentarians present here in particular. So once again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's vote in the usual way: who's in favour of going back to the law of inadmissibility, to dial, I think, the appropriate number of votes and to vote inadmissibility. So I think this is going to be clear and clear. I urge you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u193	Yes, Leonid Chernowitz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u194	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, radio listeners, everyone who listens to this terrible law today. "Our Ukraine", Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetski. I'm happy we didn't vote on the inadmissibility order because I want to say the following. I'm joining what Mr. Schkel said to me, that we can then turn to him. But first, I want people to hear what I think about this. First, the country's heroes remain alone because we obey the laws and we adopt them. And those who pass these terrible transplant laws, yes, they're not in the hall today. And I suggest that if we transplant, all the bad guys who have led the people to such horror and condition, yes, from the chiefs of the JEK and the chiefs of every administration, that's what I'm suggesting! There they are, transplanting all the organs without a warrant! Because if we do. I like it. Isn't that nice? Secondly, I would like to say with full responsibility that everything has been removed from Ukraine, from metal to minerals, everything else. Our children’s or people’s bodies have not been enough to drive. We've got a whole lot of street kids today, one third of us, and anyone. It is important that we make a decision on this matter, and those who have submitted have been removed from Parliament, and that is, of course, a major problem. That's where their organs are! And there will be a police report, and everything else, I assure you. And if we voted in favour of this law, we'd start with a transplant, Vladimir Mikhailovich, yours, because I'm going to tell you that you're a hero today because we're listening to these laws. Here! We will not allow laws that will allow the organs of our unhappy pensioners to be transplanted by those who die alone today with their misfortunes in their homes. Anyone and children who are, of course, abandoned to fate. It's a disgrace! Secondly, to return to condemn such a bill. As long as there is no moral authority in Ukraine that has a conscience, the people of Ukraine today have one to choose from. It's just not possible to continue the power because it's really going to transplant everything then, I guarantee it. We must assess that. There's no way, there's no way to transplant anything because it's a big problem. And secondly, it's a hell of a law, and I feel like I'm in a horror movie listening to these horrors. Better not listen to what I say further, but call your elderly parents and tell them that their organs will stay with them. And we will not allow it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u195	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. The last speaker of those who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, in a state of difficult reflection, I went up to this rostrum. The question is ambiguous, delicate, and plentiful. On the one hand, transplant doctors are able to perform organ transplants at the time of the clinical death without the consent of the parents. In 90 percent of cases, parents do not agree. And perhaps the person himself would have died would have been against it. There are certain barriers, including psychological ones, to such consent. So it's as if it would be appropriate at the time of clinical death, if it really corresponds to the moment of clinical death, to allow it. But on the other hand, we have a lot of fraudsters and criminals who can use this law and transplant organs at the time of a clinical death or speed up its origin. That's the danger. If we had an adequate security system and we could ensure the safety of those who could die, and there would be no acceleration, then we could press a button, if we had the appropriate organs to protect this, those organs would be healthy, we could go for it. If we had the power to ensure this security, if we had the standards of democracy and so on, if we had a normal country, normal conditions, we could go. But in these real, specific conditions that we are in right now, we are in no way in any way able to accept the adoption of this law. So I'm going to vote against acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u197	Stepan Cloud, please, with a motive. The discussion is over. Stepan Cloud. Next up, Nikolainka. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u198	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! It's a deeply immoral bill. It already refers to the violation of the universal moral standards that are in force throughout the civilized world. And honourable deputies, those who believe that if we had everything in order, we could have adopted such a law. No, it's not. And I'd like to go to Leonid Chernewick. I'm against even taking transplants from the minister of internal affairs of Bilocon, we have. He's right to be in prison, but we have the right to provide him with health care. And I think we're going to have this order as soon as we're elected president of Ukraine, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u199	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u200	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Nikolayenko, Hersonian. Our faction of socialists has very carefully discussed with experts today the draft law on child protection. I apologize for the transplantation of human organs and anatomical materials. And we are absolutely against the fact that the permission of family members is excluded from this law. The socialists believe that in general, we should act in a Christian way. We will vote against that. And the way we feel about what our government is doing and what laws they're drafting, we're going to express 26 numbers at 3 p.m. at the Cabinet of Ministers, where we call on all the people of Kiev and Ukraine to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-21-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation of Organs and Anatomic Materials. [[concerning the removal of organs]] Registration number 3510. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:03:46]] For-0 May I have your attention, please? Against 100, hold on to zero. Others did not vote. Thus, the law is rejected. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the bill has been rejected. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00 p.m. At 16 o'clock, please be everyone in the room, because the important social bills are still under consideration.
