ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:09]] Registered -404 404 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, we are the day before March 8th. Let us therefore, on behalf of the men of the Supreme Council, welcome the women of the Supreme Council, all the womanhood of Ukraine with this beautiful feast, and wish them happiness, love, love of the madman! [[Applause]] And I suggest on such a beautiful note that we continue our work. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. People's deputies are invited to sign up for statements, messages, and suggestions. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying response of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ukraine’s ministries to parliamentary requests and requests for social protection of citizens who suffered in the nuclear testing zone at the Semipalatinsk site. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the payment of allowances and the payment of allowances to military personnel in A-1232. GREGORY TO THE Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a government commission to verify the conditions of non-target use of state budget funds and the abuse of official positions of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and to take appropriate measures to address these violations. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of disabled persons, veterans of work, pensioners of Kirovgrad. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of a mountain settlement in the village of Kalina Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the breeding of land and the property of an agricultural enterprise called Ivanchenka, the village of Petrovci, in the region of Poltava. Anatoly of DOMANS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the recognition of funds not paid to teaching staff in the Zitomir region in the years 1997-2000, by government debt. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of knowingly failing and ignoring the radio organizations and certain civil servants of the current legislation and Constitution of Ukraine. Olga GINZBURG to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment of salaries to employees of the Open Shareholders Association “Conotapian Swine Factory Silout” of the Suma Region. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a sharp increase in the tariffs on heat supplies for the population in the cities and districts of Chernigiv region. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine of 7 February 2002 and the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine of 1 June 2002 “To honor the memory of the great Simirenka scientists”. [[QUIET, DRACH, BLACK]] Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of funding for the construction of the hospital in the Komsomol district of Herson. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to end abuses and monopolize the grain market in the Suma region, the failure of State programmes to support agricultural enterprises by attracting guilty persons to legal responsibility. Valeria Assadchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resolution of the issues raised in the complaint of the disabled and the group, a participant in the liquidation of the Chernobyl AES accident, a resident of Kiev. Mr Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the state-owned stockholder company Uklodavdav polygraphia. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the Institute of Postgraduate Education for Home Service Workers. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the rule of law in the reform of the agri-industrial complex of the Mirgrad Region of Poltava. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation that has arisen in the joint venture of the color metallurgy Interstop. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt owed to agricultural producers for a young man of great standing in the Kitzman constituency No. 203 of the Czernovite region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Health, Motherhood and Childhood on the use of measures to endanger Ukraine's national security as a result of violations of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of reducing the network of public and municipal health institutions, the destruction of Odessa District Health Administration of the district health centre, the illegal management of its assets, the reduction of the number of health workers with violations of constitutional rights to work, the elimination of violations of the law and the prosecution of those responsible. [[CARMASINE, A DELIVERY, A WITNESSES]] Anatolysa KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of cogeneration facilities based on gas-discharge engines in the management of Ukraine. Taras STECHKYVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for extra housing payments during the privatization of housing. SLABENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the negative consequences of the interruption of financing of geological exploration works carried out in the Lviv-Volin coal pool. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Andrija Klava, for a negative situation that resulted from a time-consuming shut-off of gas and an end to the heating season in the city of Zugres Donetsk. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the absence of a drug and respiratory apparatus in the Orikhov Central District Hospital of Zaporez Region. Eugene KYRILČUKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko for the purposeless use of State funds in 2003 to support the beekeeping of the Volin region. Mr Wichenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr Ivan Kirilenko, on the violation of current legislation by the management of the collective agricultural enterprise called the Black Sea Sub-Deep region of the Cherka region. Ms SLABENKA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr Ivan Kirilenko, on the shortcomings of the organisation of financial support for farms in the Volin region. Group of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the state of the fight against infectious diseases in Ukraine [[KENDZOR, KOSTINJUK, CUBAROV]] Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on abuse of office, violation of legislation by the former director of the “Sumski cable networks” company. GREGORY TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the situation of the purposeless use of state budget funds and the abuse of office by officials of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine and on the involvement of those responsible. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the ill-satisfaction of the claim for material damage to the head of the small enterprise “Prospektive” in the region of Colomia, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of residents of the village of Tereshchenka Kotelevska District of Poltava by Talant in the conduct of the gasification work. Jurya ARTEMENKA and Alexia BABURINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the biased treatment of the authorities of the Procurator's Office of the Zaporozhye Region to former directors of the Metallurgy Consortium. Mikhail POLANČIĆECH to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the theft of customers, legal and physical persons of the Kyiv branch of the “Premierbank” Stock Exchange. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the case, in the order of exclusive conduct, the grounds for the decision taken by the Montenegrin District Court in the Serbian case. Andrija ŠKILA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Director of the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, on failure to implement the decision of the Russian District Court of the Žitomir Region concerning the collection of the debt from the Society of the Rebirth of Delilah for the benefit of the workers of the village of Radenichi Lviv district. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the issue of the early termination of the authority of the Sudanese city chief of the Pervomay district of Herson. Kharkiv district. Mr Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine, for creating obstacles to the work of the Kiev Continent. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Privatization on the Legality of Transfer of Gas Pipelines, which are built on the basis of budgetary resources, to the statutory fund of the closed stockholder association Teodosia. [[GORBATOV, OYES, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Mr Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal association of the collective agricultural enterprise Ivanenko in the village of Petrovka in the Region of Mirgorod region of Poltava with the company “Debrovo horse factory No. 62”. Vladimir NOVAK to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the proper investigation of the Hmělnick city’s law enforcement authorities into the death of Viktor Brilka. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the enforcement of valid legislation by the Vinnick district law enforcement and public authorities, and on the application of measures to oversee the breach of the tax treaty and the failure of the self-returned proceeds by the limited-liability “Agrofirma “Anbuco”. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of measures of prosecutorial response in connection with the systematic violation of the constitutional rights of Hajibei Lyman fishermen to work and the use of natural resources by the Hajibei Lyman Fisheries Association through the creation of a monopoly on the fishing industry, the involvement of those responsible and the improper conduct of parliamentary appeals on these issues. Stephen HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations on the Investigation of the Criminal Case of Trafficking in Human Bodies and Children in Kharkiv, and the use of security measures for the head of the All - Ukrainian Association of Multi-Children in connection with the release by Valery Kravchenk of information on this matter. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Act in the Zakartat region. [[CARMASINE, BURNIK, AND OTHERS Total 4 deputies]] Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Judge-Rapporteur Celivon and Head of the Secretariat of the Dubrovski KSU to make the issue of clarifying the imperfect and superficial decision of 3 July 2003. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, on tax evasion, artificial debt by officials of the Rvodna Automud. [[THE RED ALEXIUM, WIDE]] Vladimir PETREN to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the consideration of a cassation complaint against the decision of the Kovpak District Court for the solicitation of a citizen of Suma. VICTOR OF THE AUDITOR OF THE U.S. Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the provision of computer technology for professional fire and rescue services located in the territory of the 69th district of the Vitomir region. Mary MARKUS to the Ukrainian Minister of Agriculture’s temporary permission for the Foreign Government’s plant quarantine inspection in the Zakarpatsky area to provide expedition and counselling services. Gennady RUDENKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the provision of medical equipment for district hospitals in the Poltav region. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine for the gasification of the villages of the region of Rognettiv in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. VICTOR BALOGA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the illegal actions of the head of the Mukatov City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zakartat district regarding the distribution of housing. Viacheslava KYRILENKA to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal activities of the administration and the protection of the Suma National Agrarian University against youth organizations and journalists, in connection with the dissemination of information material on student rights and interests. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the improper enforcement of the justice authorities of the Chernigian district of the court for the benefit of the resident of Priluka. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, Head of the Herson District Administration, on the need to reconstruct the road bridge across the Ingulac River of the Great Alexandria region of the Herson region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the provision of vehicles for the family of disabled persons and groups of residents of the village of Novi Lubar of the district of Žitomir. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the conservation of the Central Nova mine and the liquidation of the directing of enterprises that are being built by the state-owned enterprise Donbasantracite. Jurya SHARKA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal for illegal arrest in the Russian Federation of Ukrainian Citizens. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the Ministry of Internal Affairs' notes on the parliamentary appeals. Lilia GREGOROVIĆ and Bogdan KostinjuK to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for Recalculation of Retirement to the Deserved Teacher of the City of Ivano-Frankivska. TO THE Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for violating the principle of the justice of the distribution of housing for deported persons. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the confirmation of the surveillance by the Ukrainian intelligence authorities of the national opposition in the course of their stay abroad, according to Foreign Intelligence General Valery Krawchenk. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the violation of the National Service Act on the numbering of pensions for civil servants. Oleg KARJOWA to the Head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service regarding the violation by officials of Ukrainian customs of certain provisions of Ukraine’s laws regarding State support for the bookstore in Ukraine. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine regarding the telephone and telephone stationing in the village of Sukhil Rozhnetiv district of Ivano-Frankiv district. John STATION to the Chief of State Service of Ukraine regarding the violation by the head of the Central Election Commission of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the use of the national language. Mr. Oleg BESPALOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Law Enforcement, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking in relation to the case of the ex-president of the Bank of Slovenia, Boris Feldman. Anatoly by KZLOVSKI to the President of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate on the payment of the South Ukrainian local budget for under-income on land and wages by Energoat. PENALTIES TO THE Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the removal of the premises and the restructuring of the Institute of Postgraduate Education for Workers of the Domestic Service. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the wrongful actions of the judge of the Delhi District Court of Kiev. Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of the Yavorov apartment and maintenance part of the Quarterly and Exploitational Administration of the Western Operational Command to the property of the city of Yavorov Lviv. Mr. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Economy of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the State Department of Ukraine on the conclusion of the transfer to the municipal property of the Jovkow City Council of the military town complex number seven in the city of Jovkw Lviv. Mr Vladimir PUSAKOVA, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, on the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Reforming the Agrarian Economic Sector in the Kirovograd Region. The parliamentary requests that all of these have come in. Please indicate the names of the people’s deputies who have entered for statements, statements, and messages. Vladimir Cherniak. Ladies and gentlemen, I must announce here that the meeting of the Temporary Special Commission on the processing of legislative instruments in the development of constitutional provisions, the amendment of the Constitution, the legislative provision of political constitutional reform will take place on Tuesday, not today. Ten o'clock. Dear colleagues, please state your name on the board. Let's move on to speeches, statements, messages. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. None. Unfortunately, I can't. Teeth, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, Valentin Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. First of all, I want to welcome all the women of Ukraine personally and from the entire faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. And secondly, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Turkin Aleksandr Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u3	Alexander Turchinov. Get ready for The Gift.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u4	Respectable citizens, distinguished national MPs. Today, there is no longer a hidden cynical attack on democracy and freedom of speech in Ukraine. Insolently thrown off the radio "Freedom." There is an unprecedented court, and more loyally, a court of law over the newspaper "Village News." Not today, tomorrow they can close the Fifth TV channel." Radio Rox isn't working today. The challenge to society was to capture and pillage the Continent radio station, which broadcast popular radio programmes such as "Citizen Radio" such as the Ukrainian BBC, "Polish Radio", etc. Dear friends, once again, I repeat, the journalist's blood has spilled. You know, yesterday on the way to Kiev, where a broadcast agreement was to be made in Poltava, Radio Freedom, a murdered journalist, director of the Poltava TRK YUTA-TV, George Chechick. Dear colleagues, all of this is a decoration for a scenario developed on the street of the Bank's so-called "constitutional reform," all of this is, in fact, the beginning of a civil war, a war against the truth, against its own people. The Bill of July faction of Timoshenko calls for the immediate cessation of the persecution of independent media media, the resumption of the broadcast of the radio station "Continent", "Radio Rox", to be heard immediately today, as we requested yesterday, the leadership of the Cabinet of Ministers at the Prime Minister's or vice-premier's level, to listen to the Minister of Interior, the Attorney General of Ukraine, who would tell us how they were pursuing the opposition, and what steps they were taking to protect journalists in order to protect freedom of speech in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, no proportional system will save democracy in Ukraine if we do not protect freedom of speech with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u5	Ivan Vasilovich Spodarenko. He's transferring the right to speak to the national deputy of Bokom. Please. Get ready for Sasha.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! March 9th is the birth of our brilliant poet and national prophet Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko. And it just so happens that 84 years ago, a newspaper called "The Village News" was born called "The Soviet Villager." Today this paper of Zionist will may be closed in Ukraine, with the will of a foreign citizen named Rabinovich, who also received a passport from a Ukrainian citizen of the will of our guarantor, who went to break the Constitution and sheltered a former criminal in Ukraine and gave him special confidence. It is Rabbinic who is leading the Zionist campaign against the Village News today under the mark of combating anti-Semitism. And we must all, I think, understand well what this threatens Ukraine. Today, of course, it's not just "The Village News" -- it's about closing down the seven radio stations that worked on the Continent radio. Today it's about shutting down Freedom, and today it's about a possible closure and a fifth channel. So today the authorities are deliberately going to take out freedom of speech in Ukraine, and they are deliberately going to close the opposition holes in Ukraine. This means only one thing: that the authorities today are panicking before the presidential elections. She understands very well that she can't win over real things, she can't win legitimately, so she wants to launch an information field of opposition first and then suppress the very political opposition in Ukraine as such. And we need to understand that it's not about suppressing just opposition -- it's about suppressing any free thought in Ukraine, it's about eventually suppressing its own people. And so on March 9th, on Taras Shevchenk's birthday, the opposition takes action in Ukraine to protect freedom of speech, to protect democracy. At 13 p.m. in the Mikhail Square near the monument of Princess Olga, all opposition forces in Ukraine are gathered to protest the robbery of a gang that is now in power and to claim that a free word will not die in Ukraine. I call on all the Chinese, all the Ukrainians of March 9th to stand up for democracy in Ukraine and prove that we are with you people worthy of freedom, people worthy of democracy, that we will not be subject to Zion's circles, nor will we.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u7	National Deputy Sas of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u8	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Taran. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u9	Victor Terrence, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u10	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today we have to consider the electoral law, but first of all, I want to say that considering the electoral law is important, but we can't substitute for this moment our protest against mass media clearing by considering the electoral law, although it's very important, because if there's no free press, when people don't have full information, then any election is completely meaningless. Alexander Turchinov has already spoken here and I also want to stress this, because it is very important. After George Gongadze died in Ukraine for days, another journalist, Georgi Cheček, director of the Poltava TRK. He died just when, despite numerous threats, he went to Kiev to make a deal with Freedom Radio. They say, "Go to the front lane." And how familiar it is. Both the German and the German and the Cranville, and it's so easy these days to kill and drag to another lane, even though it can be largely this crossbar, and it's all our system, it's all dark and it's killing honest people. There's a mass exoneration in front of an independent press election. Rural News, Radio Rocks, Continent, Freedom, Public Radio, there's a danger of closing ours with you, dear colleagues, the Voice of Ukraine newspaper, and the Writers' Association is being destroyed, because there's going to be a high-ranking oligarch and there's going to be a pool, even though there's not enough pools around the world to wash those oligarchs away from dirt. And when the self-proclaimed Head of the Association has even a forged seal on the union, why is the prosecution silent? And what is it about the time that the Head of the Association chooses neither Zagreb, Musketeer, Yavorowski, or Mokchan, but chooses the Kyiv-Holy Court? Lenin once said that of all kinds of art, film is the most important thing for us. And this is well understood today by the oligarchs, because their captivating tentacles have already reached the Long Man cinema, and the same problems exist in the Community of Theatre Actors. And so, dear colleagues, on March 9th, we urge everyone to leave for Sofia Square at 1:00 p.m., go together to the Chevchenk Monument, and there will be a rally at 2:00 p.m. to watch our democracy, our nation's word, as Taras Shevchenko called for. And such a rally is to take place in all the cities and halls of our Ukraine. And so we demand, our faction requires that the Prime Minister of Ukraine come here, the forces come, and that we listen and guard our parliamentary word, guard democracy, because again, as Simon Pettlar said, Ukraine can be free and independent only when it is democratic and without that free Ukraine cannot be spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u11	There's no Anatoly. Novak, the Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Bondarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u13	Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction. Prepare Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u14	Dear President, the People's Deputies! I'll start with the simplest and most understandable. Not a secret, so many of you are going to drink healing water into the town of Truscavets of Lvivsk district. Clearly, fat food, the fall of the dollar of health to a national MP is not added. In this regard, I report that rail communication with the town of Truscavec has recently been very unreliable. The fact is that local workers who have not been paid for years have recently stopped trains in a clean field, not robbed, shot, detained for hours, and released. Here's the situation. The actions of the workers are perfectly fair. We'll take the Gogol factory, the working group of this factory, the most active in this rail war. So, at first, this factory was sold to a British firm, then branded, reselled three times. The current owner of Gollola bought this company for such a ridiculous price that it's not even comfortable to call it. Today, the factory is worth cutting on scrap metal, although motor oils have been produced here before, and oil and gasoline supplements have been effective, and other useful oil products have been produced. Salaries payable to employees for three years to date 800,000 Grieve. Surprisingly, Galola’s workers are returning to the tracks on Sunday. They'll be blocking the traffic to Bratislava in the area of Stry. It is likely that the workers of the Galak Borislav factory will join this picket. During Soviet times, this was the second-largest production facility in the world. Galak's broke today, too. Salaries payable to employees 500 000 Grieve. Masters come to the plant only to cut stainless pipes, containers, and other equipment into metal. The workers call it: The master came hunting. Here, in Borislav, another strike is active -- a strike by the workers of the Farfor factory. For five consecutive years, the plant has been open-minded, but all criminal cases brought in by this fact have been discontinued. Debt owed to employees on salaries of 700,000 Grieve. I would like to emphasize that the workers of the Lviv region have declared a rail war only after that. When they found that writing letters to the President, the Government and the Supreme Council was useless. To be honest, I don't particularly hope that our Supreme Council will protect workers either. But we have to look for money. I don't hope the conscience here will say its word convincing, but the instinct of preservation must be. If there's roadblocks in Lviv, it says something. When money was needed to send our troops to Iraq, money was found. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u15	Yes, George Ponomarenko, the Communist faction. Prepare the Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Sergio Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! In just a few minutes, we're going to be looking at a proportional election bill with you. The events of the last days in connection with the elections have once again convinced me of the relevance of this law. Today, in the Mariinsk constituency, in the Donetsk region, elections are held. What can I say about that? I've been there a few times. The area of elections today has become the Donetsk region into a free zone, a zone free of law, a zone free of morals, in short, into a zone. What is being done in the Donetsk region today, in this area of Donetsk, where elections are being held, is not to be described as a criminal word of lawlessness. Twenty-four candidates, of whom only two are from the opposition, all 22 are working for one person, who represents the Unit for Ukraine and represents the Regional Tax Administration of the Donetsk Region. Infringements occur literally in all articles. Candidates who are supposed to advocate for themselves are advocating for the representative of the Donetsk Regional Administration, all of them, to one, abruptly and cynically. It is virtually impossible to break through the candidate for meetings with the workers. As a professional MP, I was very interested in tracking how freedom of speech is respected in the Donetsk region. The answer to this question is very simple and is not respected. I wanted to meet with people during the elections on issues not directly related to the elections. I was threatened by the police for the possibility of organizing a meeting. People who have managed to organize a meeting at the institution are already at risk of quitting work today. What's going on in there, I repeat, except you can't just call it an impenetrable term. I watch the press, there's sudden, cynical, openly illegal counterfeiting in favor of one person. Well, the press publishes what's called a sociology poll. Well, we all know what sociological interviews are. But there is a sudden violation of the section of the Elections Act. No data are provided that are required by this law. Dear comrades, democracy is at stake today. I firmly believe that we must move on to proportional elections. But as long as we have major elections, I and the Communist faction urge all workers to vote for Igor Mogilevsky, the real candidate for the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u18	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. I understand. Have Peter Kachur announce it, because I will be charged. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u20	Jaroslav Kenzior, please prepare Stratovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Everyone knows that a week ago, the president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, visited Lviv unexpectedly. The originality of the visit was that, for the first time in history, the President of the State was not going small in six hundred workers, six hundred working men, a joint German-Ukrainian enterprise. There's a problem in this company, two problems. The VAT problem and the customs problem. And then behind the President's back when he decided that all these customs problems were behind the President's back, these people were the ones who created the problem. Today's First Deputy Head of the Tax Administration of the former head of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Lithuania Sergei Medvedchuk and member of the same Party of the SDPU(o) Taras Kozak, head of Western Regional Customs The people, the two officials who organized this problem, which is going to be decided by the President of Ukraine, are standing behind the President, and no hair from the head of one and the other officials has flown. I'm asking if Leoni has this problem just in Stryu, or thousands and thousands of Ukrainian businesses. And whether the President will go to every company and solve these problems, the VAT problem and the customs problem. Another visit I'd like to make. You know, we used to laugh every time Catherine III went to Crimea and Count Potemkin put these so-called "potomkinal decorations." And when the leader of the SDPO(s) Shurma meets the President by removing seniors from the class, taking away the students from the class and organizing this commendable, grateful meeting with the President. Thank you to the President for his happy life, thanking the President for his constitutional reform, thanking the President for the Sikh Bridge, which has been built for 12 years and is likely to be rebuilt for five years. And we see how false, evil this court party of SDPU(o) is trying to create around the President, to deceive the President, that it is so exciting and so grateful to meet the head of state, who has led to the begging of the entire nation, the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u22	Yes. I see. Let's do Strotovich now, and then yours will be a line. To the last speaker, and then to the line of Igor Shurma. Vladimir Stretović, head of the committee, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u23	Thank you. Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. In my speech, I want to draw your attention to the problem that is now in our reality, namely the neglect of cars with VR, KM and AP numbers. On Wednesday, Herson conducted the last Olympic hope of Alexander Beresch. He was killed in a car accident with VR numbers on it. Moreover, the car was accompanied. How could it be that the State Inspectorate escorted a car, according to expert estimates, at a speed of 180 kilometers per hour? What was the force of the blow that the victim was practically undressed and dismembered by the impact of the collision? Experts today claim that there is the fault of both drivers, but as a car driver, I want to tell you that if the speed were 80 kilometers per hour, we would also have saved the Olympic champion, the Olympic Games serf, excuse me, and the future hope of Ukraine. And today, this problem is becoming relevant. In meetings with voters, especially in Kiev, where we focus very much, we often have to listen to complaints that our colleagues with VR numbers simply ignore not only the marking lines, but also the traffic lights, the principles of order, and thus create emergency situations. It is clear that the President's decree has been adopted, but the President's decree will not change the consciousness of the people's deputies. That's why I'm addressing you, my distinguished national deputies, that you should be a model of road conduct in the right situations and not create a state inspection of resentment, but that is, when these situations take human life. I found with amazement in the plan approved by the Head of the Supreme Council that there is no draft of my bill, MP Morozov, since December 31st, on road traffic, where we are trying to regulate these issues legislatively, and thus restrict some of us from driving in violation of traffic rules. I call on you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give you an assignment, to find my bill from December 31st last year, and to put it into the plan of action of the Supreme Council, and so we will react to similar acts of law. And in order to start setting things straight, order in Ukraine, I think we need to start with ourselves, and this calls on my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u24	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine has a word for replication. [[united]] It's from Mikola Joulinsky's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u25	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The honourable national MPs, apparently, who have just listened to Mr. Jaroslav's speech, one of the relics of Galician politics, would like to prove to you that this man has twice lost the court to the united Social Democrats in the vicinity of democracy to Lviv for lying and false accusations to the party. And this time he lets himself tell an absolute lie, which is evidenced by the videos we have. Today, this person, who on four occasions is not the author of any bill, has not joined in the adoption of economic laws, now accuses others of the imperfect legislation. He didn't say about another poster that he obviously didn't want to read, "Thank you, Movement for a break." And I have to say that as long as he's going to go to the rostrum, he's going to keep using terminology, because he just doesn't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Mikola Joulinsky from the procedure, please. And with motive and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Today is the day before the big event -- 190 years from Taras Shevchenk's birthday. I want to advise all of us, too, that the first half of the full academic meeting of Shevchenk's works, which will be in the 12 volumes, has already seen the world. I'm showing you the first volume and the first volume. These are six volumes of literary heritage. And this is the great work of the Ševchenk National Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Literature of the name Shevchenk National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. And there's also a lot of help, and I'm going to say, a big role has been played by both the President of Ukraine's Order, and the Government Order, and the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, and Science Thought. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank our colleagues Alexander Frost and John Boki for putting into the budget a special line of funding for this issue. Finally, I would like to present this edition to our Supreme Council in the person of Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! I think we have to do everything we can to get every national deputy to have this six-pack. I think we'll do it. Dear colleagues! I want to consult with you. May I have your attention, please? Two factions: the faction "Our Ukraine" and the bloc of Julius Timoshenko called on me to give a break for 30 minutes or not to announce breaks, to give a word for a statement for 3 minutes. So maybe just to save time, have Nicholas Tomenko come forward and keep working? But on the condition that we continue to work. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! I'd like to lead to your well-known position of our faction, and this position is supported by our colleagues in the Socialist Party of Ukraine, this is, unfortunately, by the incoherence of the Supreme Council in stopping that plan of the destruction of independent media that began to take place in Ukraine. This is about two positions: yesterday’s moratorium decision on tests. I don’t think it was necessary for someone to tell our colleagues not to vote for it. You know, yesterday we got 206 votes, voted for the leadership of the Supreme Council, voted four opposition factions and individual deputies of the majority. I don't think there was a Prime Minister or a Chief of Administration who gave such instructions to the foolish to shut down the media through checks, and I'm assuming that the vote was at the end and obviously everyone just couldn't do it. [[1814]] So our first requirement is to return to the Order for all kinds of tests. So once again, I'm saying that we're going to get to the point where the Voice of Ukraine will soon be closed because of the tests. Not just the Continent radio, you know what they're closed for? This is the decision of the National Council in 2001. This is the 2001 Nacradia Decision, and only Boris Cold, of eight people, has been working since the National Council was convened. And it's being charged in a court of law. And based on the 2001 document, the radio is off. Thus, for every medium, such a document will be found. So it is in principle for us today to stop all checks on all dependent, independent opposition media. And the second position is that they're going to listen to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco, head of the State Association, as they think, continue to shut down the media or help the media that they're talking about. This situation is extremely important. I didn't make a deal yesterday. Vladimir Mikhailovich said about 500,000. I want us to know the situation with the Voice of Ukraine again. "The Voice of Ukraine." Today the case is being tried in the Court of Appeal, and somehow since October 2003, the Supreme Court has not been able to bring the matter to the Voice of Ukraine. We've prepared Volodymira Mikhailovich's letter to address the Supreme Court without delay so that he will not be hanged on these half a million bracelets and work peacefully because in the Courts of Appeal we know that TNC is not a poor organization and unfortunately she finds mechanisms to work with members of the Courts of Appeal to make decisions against the newspaper, and the Supreme Court, I think, to put dots over "and" in "The Voice of Ukraine," and it will work peacefully. So once again, our proposal and requirement to put to the vote a moratorium on the verification of the media and to agree when we listen to the vice-premier and head of the Communion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I think we're going to have to go back to considering this decision, as well as the proposals for hearing relevant information from the government. I would ask this on the conciliation board to consider and make a positive decision in order to discuss these questions in the next plenary week. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let's move on to the schedule of meetings. We have the first ones on the agenda. draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies and Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies are scheduled for meetings. But to get to the bottom of this. Please, Pinzenik from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the faction made a statement to you in the morning that the missing national MPs had been bugged and deleted. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please give instructions to stop trying to pick up missing deputies' cards. Such attempts are made by individual factions from factions for missing deputies. Give instructions that there should be no such card issuers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask the Chief of the Apparatus to check that there are no attempts to issue cards to persons who do not belong to them. That's the first one. Second, I read the missing. If anyone is present, please let us know. Not available today for treatment: Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, isn't it? Jobist Yuri Mikolaiovich, isn't it? Martinowski Valerius Pavlovich. Is there a Martinowski? Now find Martinowski so that Martinowski can be. Guriev Vasil Mikolaiovich? Von Gureyev is here. So Gurey's is a respected colleague. I saw Martinowski yesterday, but now let him represent him in front of our eyes. Demyochin? Demyochin is. It's a mission, dear fellows. That's who's supposed to be on board. Insomnia Boris Yakovich? None. Storm? None. Hungry Mikhail? None. Zhivago? Is it Zhivago? I'm asking the faction manager: Where's Zhivago? None. Klimpus Oreste Dmitrovich? I won't. And Sergey Slatenko? Is it? It's weak. I ask the Secretariat to respond accordingly to cards of non-members. Please, Mike's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u33	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to express my protest by the methods that exist today in the Supreme Council. We had cards stolen from our party at five yesterday. This is no longer our first case. I think it's unworthy of the conduct of the deputies, and we have to give it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u34	I ask you to check, go back to the secretariat, check, if there are MPs, let's see the cards and stop this disgraceful practice. Well, please, the Stephen Cloud and let's get to work. Dear colleagues, everything is done by law. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u35	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have named the missing only those who are absent at the hospital and on leave, and many other deputies are absent for no valid reason. I'm asking you to set the number of missing, for example, Alexander Volkov's gone and there wasn't yesterday, and there were no others. A few dozen deputies are not in the hall or present today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, please attend the Committee on Regulatory Policy. I'm not running around the hall right now and checking for any other MP. I took official documents from a hospital, who was on a mission, and I reported to you objectively. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on this issue three times. I beg your attention so that there will be no complaints, I will not put the vote to the vote. For the first time, vote should be taken in order to make an exception to the requirements of Article 6.5. 1 and in line with part 3 of article 3.2. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules to decide on the inclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 5 March 2004 and to consider the draft laws of Ukraine on the election of Ukrainian national deputies and the amendment of the Ukrainian National Deputies Act. I'm putting this first motion to a vote. [[11:00:54]] For 254 Decision taken. By procedure? When we vote, there will be a procedure. The procedure relates to consideration. We can only take it for reasons, but not according to procedure. Motives, please. Matvienko. By factions, please explain. It's a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u37	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing you and I am addressing my fellow national deputies. I am a member of a special committee that discussed this issue yesterday at my meeting. I want to inform you that the members of the special committee had claims that the special commission had the right to deal with this issue yesterday, and the doubts were that the decision we made the other day was not publicized. In accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, this act comes into force only after its promulgation. This was ignored by members of the commission. But there is a appeal to the Regulatory Committee that the Regulatory Committee should provide an appropriate qualified response. Finally, after yesterday’s session, the commission also had no right to sit down, since this was a violation of Rule 2.1.1. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we discussed this yesterday. And it was no accident that I emphasized that we would have to vote three times. That's the first one. Second thing I want to say. This is a draft regulation, it's not a law, and it goes into effect, it's our internal document since the signing of this document. Dear colleagues, once again, I say that I have made it an accident to put the first vote that we can make, to decide whether or not to step away from article 6.5. 1 and 3.2.3. And the Supreme Council supported it. So there can't be any more claims to me. Gavriluk, please. I see, right now, one minute. Gabrieluk's microphone. Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to this. In the event that the bill is proposed by individual political forces today, attention should be paid to the following regulations. Starting a review of today, this is the case. In harmony with article 2.4, the Bible says: “Let your name be One of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the order of the day session consists of two parts. First. The issues that are fully prepared for inclusion in the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council and the second are the preparations and refinements that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been tasked with implementing the Committee of the Supreme Council and the relevant bodies. We have a question today about the election of national deputies for the fifth session, chapter two. And we have no right to consider it today until we include it in chapter one. As a result, we are also violating the article of Regulation 2.4.4. That's why I'd like to ask Vladimir Mihajlovich to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it would be indeed so if I were to deal with this matter by the committee. But since the Supreme Council has adopted about 300 votes for the transfer to the TSC, the TSC has prepared and introduced the bill. And I didn't accidentally put to the vote today the first question that got 254 votes to step away from the relevant articles of the Rules, to take up the meeting and to consider, the Supreme Council voted, that is, I did what the Conciliation Council decided yesterday. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u41	I thank Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I'd like to explain about Mr. Matthews' statement and the appeal of a group of national deputies yesterday before. Which came to the Rules Committee yesterday. It refers to the organization of a temporary special commission. I would like to call your attention once again to the fact that the Temporary Special Commission created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and in its work, i.e. in all its work on matters of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it has the right to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and it decides how it should organize its work when considering a particular problem that has been entrusted to it to discuss and make proposals to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u42	Calm down. Yuri Carmazin, please. Wait, there'll be a line at the end. Well, don't jump out of your pants, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u43	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we can do anything with you, especially when Adam Ivanovich is in charge of the Supreme Council, and I want to inform him that we have started collecting signatures for removing him for studying the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. I want to remind you that we can't just change the Constitution. Part two of article 89 of the Constitution on the Committee of the Supreme Council lays down the legislative work on the preparation and preliminary consideration of issues related to the powers of the Supreme Council. No committee, a professional committee with experts, lawyers, reviewed draft laws, and prepared its conclusions. That's why I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u44	Yes, thank you. Roman Zvaric. Well, dear fellows, not all at once, it's going to be a discussion. That's enough, one of the factions has done enough. Roman Zvaric, it's been announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u45	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You just announced that the order was voted 254 votes. I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules and, by the way, the same Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make decisions on the legislative initiative of the national deputies of Ukraine or the legislative initiatives. We do not know who was the subject of such a legislative initiative, yet the subject matter of the legislative initiative should be contained in a specific decree that is registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has its registration number. You did not announce the registration number of this draft decision. So I'm asking you, who ever made that decision, and why don't we have it on our hands?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The point is that yesterday, the Conciliation Council met and 10 factions in favour, two-to-one made the right decision. But in order for this decision to materialize and implement the Supreme Council, it is necessary, once again, to say that three votes have taken place in order for us to withstand the procedure. It was done. In addition, there is a draft decree number 5230, made by the people’s deputies Rudzikowski and Osika. Anatoly Matvienko, a replica, was named after him. And now there's going to be two votes. You'd better call for a vote, all right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u47	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I'm surprised at the explanation given by the head of the Regulatory Committee, who doesn't know that the act, and the ruling is an act of the Supreme Council, comes into effect after its publication, unless otherwise provided for in the decision. If you recorded that decision coming after its adoption, there would be no problem. If it's not, it's a violation of the Rules. And we demand that we consider this in the Rules of Procedure. And the second. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm surprised by your double standards. When we introduce the press, you claim that it is necessary for it to be a committee. And when you vote today, the committee doesn't need to. So ask an immediate question to protect the interests of freedom of speech. Then you will be consistent. Otherwise you look prejudiced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u48	I, my esteemed colleagues, would ask Anatoly Sergiyovich and everyone else not to accuse me of prejudice: I am acting strictly under the Rules. If there were no Rules, it would be different. Anything, please. I'm putting a second sentence on the vote. I want to say again, when is there a decision of the Conciliation Council to consider a question that is to vote on ad-hoc. Please don't blame me for what I don't have. I put to the vote the second sentence in order to comply with part two of article 3.2. 1 The Supreme Council Rules decide on the possibility of the Supreme Council to decide on the outcome of the discussion of the meeting schedule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 5 March 2004, i.e. the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies and on Elections of People's Deputies of Ukraine. There's a vote coming. [[11:11:33]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0, Ukraine - 51, Communist - 57, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs Party, Labour Ukraine - 35, Social Democratic Party, Ukraine -38, People's Government - 12, SPI-18, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 10, Agrarian - 12, People's Choice - 12, NDP - 9, Postfaction - 3. [[united]] As yet, we are not discussing the matter. Dear colleagues! Three minutes. Write it down, not from the procedure, but from the motives, please write it down. On the board of names, please. Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! In our eyes, the events that began on December 23-24 here in this room continue. In fact, today we're overstepping the Rules, we're overstepping the existing legislation in order to bring about the possibility of adopting constitutional changes that can reverse Ukraine's democratic path. We refer to those who consider themselves to be independent deputies, those who feel that Ukraine’s interests are higher and closer to him than those of their own interests or the intimidation that took place the day before. Take a decent stand for yourself and answer for your events, not in words, but in the matter. And your business, the criteria for your position is voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u50	Yes, please, Michael Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u51	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios! It would seem clear that the majority of the people's deputies have expressed and expressed support for the elections under the proportional system. However, when this issue is on the agenda today, there are many different reasons: they have been violated and they have not done so. I'd like to remind you, maybe not in the right place. Remember, with what violations of the Earth Code were adopted in due time, and only yesterday did they suffer and suffer that the peasants were destroyed, and today it is a matter of thinking carefully, discussing these bills and allowing them to choose what they would like to declare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u52	Vasil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Today, I would like to read a letter signed by more than 80 majorists to the President of Ukraine, which says that the majority MPs are very much concerned about the efforts of some political forces at any cost to interpret the essence of the political, proportional system of elections, which today is not supported by only our electorate, people who want to know specific, and I will stress the MPs who are responsible for certain districts. We therefore ask the President of Ukraine to refer the matter to a referendum. And let people really say if they need such an election system today, impersonal! Or not. Therefore, I ask all major MPs to remember their constituents who trusted you with their votes and woken up! Today the country is in danger! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u54	Yes, Nikolayenko is giving Matthew Valentine Grigorovitch his right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you, let's calm down and work calmly this morning's meeting. This is the Head of the Supreme Council, who presides over this meeting, acting entirely on the requirements of the Rules, he makes all the proposals to your discretion, and by the votes of the national deputies is taken by any decision of the Supreme Council. And it's not his or most of the people's MPs who vote for one or the other proposals, that is, give their vote "for" that they have today's set position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! I want to calm everyone down. There is doubt and suspicion, which apparently has ground beneath it. May I have your attention, please? What is happening today is that if the Supreme Council decides to make a decision as a basis, it is in no way a matter of adoption, and I am in general, and for that I would ask the honourable colleagues to read the decree, Valérie Assadchev!, in which it is written, to prepare for the fifth of April, by the fifth of April. [[Yes, you look!]] So it's okay here. Yeah, time's up. We're still going, dear fellows. One more vote, time's up, that's it. Look at the board. I propose such a rule, such a procedure for dealing with matters. There's no storm, please remove the card. The temporary special commission proposes such a procedure, such a rule of procedure. May I have your attention, please? We have five draft laws. Give each reporter up to 10 minutes to speak and up to 10 minutes to answer questions. In addition, for the report, 10 and 10 minutes from the TSC. With a special point of view -- 3 minutes and 5 minutes, the grounding of the draft decision on inadmissibility -- 5 minutes, discussion -- within an hour. Thus, it is necessary to consider the matter. Two hours, right? I'm being corrected that the commission made a decision for two hours, for two hours, and all it takes is four hours 15 minutes. So I'm going to put it to a vote, please note, the proposal that the work of the Supreme Council be done, and now I'm going to make it sound like it's correctly formulated. It is formulated in such a way that, in accordance with part three of article 2.5.1.5 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, a decision is taken to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine pending the completion of the consideration of draft laws on the election of national deputies and on the draft Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. [[11:19:57]] For 253 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0; "Regions of Ukraine" - 51; Communists - 58; The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Labour Ukraine - 35; SDPU - 38; People's Government - 13; SPO - 18; Democratic Initiatives - 10; Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0; Agrarian Party - 13; People's Choice - 9; NDP - 6; Non-Frakation - 2. Please, from what? For reasons please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u57	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, by voting in favour of order to discuss draft laws, I would like to ask you to support our initiative, taking into account that we know the content of laws and the principles of political positions already defined by each faction, the proposal to discuss not two hours, but an hour. And so to vote then on the decree proposed by Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I put to the vote, the decision was supported. So there's the procedure and the order. Let's move on to the question of draft law. What, I can't hear you? We voted for two hours, what do you want? It's being announced for consideration -- draft Ukrainian Law, draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies and election of Ukrainian National Deputies. Reporter Goszowski Vladimir Sergiyyovich. Bill number 4285. Please, 10 minutes and 10 minutes per question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The bill, which I have the honour to report to you, is a law on a hundred percent, a law on a pure majority election system. This is a law by which 450 national deputies are elected in 450 majority districts. And I would like to say that this law is fully in line with the three basic requirements of the Constitution for electoral legislation. And I'm sure it's from these positions that we have to go to the laws that we're going to adopt in this room today. That is, people have the right to choose and to be elected, that no one can be deprived of any right for belonging to or not belonging to a political party. And most importantly, what is often said in this room is that the parties are involved in the electoral process. And I would like to say about the moments that made the People's Choice parliamentary group submit this bill, the bill for consideration. Of course, it's also what we wanted to do by this law to make some kind of resistance, moral resistance, ideological opposition to this strong, powerful progress that leads the Supreme Council Hall to a proportional election system, to a proportional election system, to a proportional system of elections with closed lists, with an imperative mandate, and even with a one-room parliament. That is, in a system where all power will be usurped completely in the hands of faction leaders. The system in which the so - called political arrangements will be made only in the culinary mode and not in the decision - making process in the session room itself. And of course that was our moral step against the proportional system. The second reason, of course, is that our parliamentary group is clear advocates of constitutional change. We are brilliant representatives of the idea that our Ukraine needs to change into a parliamentary, presidential model of government. And I'm sure our law is the law that best fits this model of government. Because if we look at the international experience of such constitutional changes, we will see that it is in countries like Poland, such as Spain, Italy, Canada, that the broad representation of regional interests has enabled us to stabilize the political process. And of course, the main guarantor of such stability is the majority electoral system, a system in which the national electorate is as close as possible to those who choose them. And from this point of view, I call for the vote in favour of this law of those national MPs who have gone through the majority election system, those who know what a pre-election company is in broken rural clubs, in shops, in the fields, in the streets, those who meet every single day with their constituents and help them not only in matters. These bureaucratic saviours are dealt with in specific ways. I appeal to vote in favour of this law and party, the parties that are created, not by an order from above, but by the parties that are created, indeed, by the common people. Because in the system that's being offered, proportional choices are closed lists, on this system, when the imperative mandate and the deputy will depend on the head of the faction, not on their electorate, on this system, unfortunately, your parties will simply become the ideological provision of a group of sponsors. And we can't let that happen. That's why I report this law as. And I stand up for my moral views, the views of my constituents, and I carry out the commission of the National Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Sergiyovich. Please sign up for the questions. Yes, please explain. As we have approved with you the Rules of Procedure for this matter, the question is 10 minutes away. Please, Kenzier. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u61	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Volodymyr Sergiyovich, well, the practice of four calls, at least during the period of independence of Ukraine, shows that the majority election system is not a competition for candidates to the Supreme Council, it is a competition for the financial possibilities of each candidate. Here's the last election in the Mikolai constituency. Today’s MP from SDPU (o) Peter Pisarczuk brought two pigs into each court. These were indeed elections, not major elections, but elections, well, donate the pigs, for the race was, who will bring more to the court. The winner was Peter Pisarczuk, representative of SDPU (o). How does your draft law provide for, as it were, to minimize this competition of financial bags?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u62	Of course, with one of those points that always pay attention to the majority system of elections, it's also a certain influence of administrative resources, financial resources. But first, I'd like to say that you know perfectly well that it's the financial resource that in many cases solves its place on the party list. And you better understand that. With regard to the administrative resource, of course the administrative resource is a very strong, so powerful moment in the electoral system, but it works effectively where the administrative resource itself works effectively. So in this case, I'd like to focus your attention on what we're doing with this election system, which is why we're doing constitutional reform. We're not running to divide power between different branches -- we're running to get the people as close as possible, the people's interests to representation in the Supreme Council in this representative body. Please, Zarubinsky. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u63	Dear colleague! Please tell me that you have repeatedly stressed that drafting a bill is a moral step towards resisting those who want evolution to a proportional system. If this is purely a moral or a pianist move, should it be viewed as a real bill to be discussed. That's the first one. One second. Do you think that a situation where parties are created from above, as you said, is worse than a situation where some groups are created by governors, that is, by full regional authority? And is that democratic? And then the third question. We can discuss, theorize on what's better a major or proportional system, but you know very well that we need to get out of a particular, today's and, by the way, tomorrow's situation in our country. And you know very well that major elections are elections, which are often not based on democracy at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u64	When I talk about moral duty, I say that unfortunately, the system of elections that is today unable to ensure the normal work of Parliament. The first two vocations, which were made in the essentially majority system of elections, proved that this Parliament was the most democratic and the elders in this room could say that it was a parliament. Of the first two, he was not only democratic, but also effective, and he accepted the Constitution. But I would like to remind you that in 1998, we were just drawing a party movement in 2002. And what did you get? We were given a lengthy, chronic parliamentary crisis, which, on the one hand, started with the prospekyyad, and then gradually we moved on to the parliamentary, presidential elections here in the Supreme Council, and then these presidential elections could not have ended six months after the end. And in this context, I would like to say that this is exactly what a moral obligation is. Moral obligation should not be forsaken by law - enforcement activities. I'm sure the decisions here should be made, not out of culinary agreements, not out of political agreements that are covered up by themselves, not out of compromises that compromises are talking about, but for whom? If these compromises are for the common people, they are accepted here, under the dome of the Supreme Council. And if it's for political elites, they're being adopted in a culinary way. We're talking about the need to change political elites. But the honourable national MPs, unfortunately, we're this law that we're proposing about a proportional system, we're preserving, we're just conserving political elites, and we can't talk about any change.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Help, Volodymyr Sergiyovich. The elections that you called the most democratic took place in the presence of only one party, and more than that, they would be even more democratic. Please, Hellcat. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u66	Hell-bent, a faction of regions. Vladimir Sergeyevich, I thank you for the patriotism you have expressed in the majority election law. At the same time, tell me, you were preparing for this. In which of the countries of Europe, America has a 100 per cent majority system? First. When you became an MP, you became a politician. Politics is a collective game. How can you be a party pooper now? We don't structure parties, we don't structure society. And one last question. The law of extremes. 100 percent proportional, 100 percent major. Perhaps it was better for us to meet in the middle of gold on a mixed law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u67	First. As for the majority of the international election system. I would like to remind you that a proportional system, a 100 percent proportional system exists only in small countries, and that in countries where there is a great deal of experience of local interest, representation of local authorities or religious communities. These are countries such as Israel, Slovakia, and Estonia. Ukraine is too large to imitate this experience. So the majority system in these countries that I said about, I mean Canada, Spain, which I listed during my report, in these countries the majority system is represented as one of the forms of the bicameral parliament, the bicameral parliament. With regard to the mixed system of elections that is today, it is unacceptable and therefore unacceptable in the new model of government. If you say it better, of course, it's a better mixed system than the one they're offering. But, dear friends, I wouldn't want us to think that majors are against parties, parties are essential. And we know very well that parties are the main instrument of democracy. But unfortunately, when we put this as the main objective of constitutional reform, the parties in the institution of democracy are simply turning into a self-sufficient goal of the political process. And, dear friends, you must understand, you should not fear a major election system. On the contrary, when the parties fight for each of the 450 constituencies, they will grow up to be staffed and psychologically grown. That's why I think it's a very necessary law in a system like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Boki. Prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u69	I remind the reporter that the first proportional elections in Ukraine were very successful in 1917 in the elections of the Constituent Assembly. And I'm going to pass on the word for a question to my colleague, Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u70	Please, Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u71	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Sergiyovich, I understand that you are still a young politician and may not have been quite as prepared for the speech as it should be. I'll say you're saying that finance plays a role in party lists. But real finance plays a role in majorist lists. Take the declaration of the National Deputies from the lists, from the Majorities. And you'll see who's richer, who's poorer. These are absolutely obvious, evidenced by the facts, documents of things that the rich have come to majorities. I'd like you to comment on that. And the second. You're talking about a major approaching his electorate. You've gone through Majority County. In your district, most of the voters supported the opposition parties, and you went to the majority. So explain to me how you approached them if you went against the political position of all your constituents?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. And what's interesting is that in this question, you actually made the main points that are related to the mixed electoral system. In fact, in elections, people think, as it were, two heads. At first they think about the person they want to vote for, which they will see, and on the other hand, they choose ideology, an abstract ideological doctrine. And that, of course, is unacceptable. And as for the first proportional election systems in, well, of course, you better know what kind of political system you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u73	Please, Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that basically, really, my electorate is only responsible for the Eupatorian constituency to be a majority system. But I'm asking you this question. You have faithfully said that only small countries in Europe today use the electoral system proportionally. Such countries, more than 10 million people, do not have a purely proportional system with a national list, there is no one. So I'd like to ask you a question. Tell me, please, how do you predict in your law the expulsion from political parties to the county?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u75	The proposed law is made on the legal basis of the last law on elections and law, which is judged by the best of the most recent adopted laws according to its legal technique. And according to this law, the subjects of the election are both parties and self - exaltation. The parties have the right to nominate candidates, both members of their party and non-party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u76	Thank you, Volodymyr Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Thank you. The truth was quite interesting in the reporter, you have to think about who's the head, if he has two, and how he thinks of the election. When asked, the name Pisarczuk was named. He insists on replicating. Turn on Pisarczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u77	Dear voters, Jaroslav Mikhailovich is evil because of the 12 majority deputies from Lviv, I am the only one actually representing the block "Our Ukraine." And in these 11 districts, poor people competed and conquered people like Andrew School, who was in prison. That's what I'd like to say before we can buy voters today. Jaroslav Mikhailovich is well aware that he will never again become a deputy in the Majority District, and he has endured the fiasco more than once. And today he would not be in Parliament if he did not hide behind the respectable back of the honorable Victor Andriovich Yushchenka. The voters of Lviv have long known the value of this policy. And what I'd like to say is that it just goes against people and shows their real attitude towards people, because the situation looked a little bit different.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u78	Thank you. The bill on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, registration number 4285-2, is presented by the national deputy Musiyak Viktor Lavrentiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u79	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! We already have the experience of elections in major districts and mixed districts. Now it's clear, it's decided that we're going to move.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u80	Victor Lavrentiovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, literally 15-17 minutes ago in this room, we were so unanimous that you and I are considering a vital issue that my breasts were opened up with pride for our Supreme Council, that we care so much about the laws. We've just started looking at these downright laws -- we've all returned to one of the heads we've been calling here. So let's get someone to talk to -- find a place somewhere else, excuse me, not in the session room. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u81	We are now moving towards making more responsible authority, first of all, the Supreme Council, which, if political reform is to be carried out, constitutional reform as its core component, in this case the formation of the Supreme Council of Government, the formation of various organs of power should also be governed by responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u82	Victor Lavrentiovich may be a little closer to the microphone or so. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u83	Tell them to make it a little louder there, they'll add. It is necessary to ensure the responsibility of the various political powers for their actions both in Parliament and outside the Parliament of those political forces who will be duly elected to the appropriate public office by the representatives of the Supreme Council. What I mean is that it's been here for several months now, and on a large scale, if you start from the moment the Supreme Council came to the conclusions of the Constitutional Court on the proposals for amendments to the Constitution, it's always spoken. In other words, we have no other way than to now try to formulate a law on elections to the Supreme Council on a proportional basis, because it has to be harmonized with the idea of changing the political system. This bill, which we have proposed -- 4285-2 -- is aimed at ensuring the effective participation of citizens in elections as a passive and active participant in this process with the right to choose and be elected. At the same time, here we tried to combine interests not only of the parties but also of the regions. The parties that make up the lists in the regions form regional lists, at the same time representing their party through the leaders of their parties. The general position of our bill is that of the following. Ukraine's territory breaks into 27 districts -- the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol and 24 districts. The parties, the party blocks, they put the candidates on two lists -- the state-owned, the public-party name, and the territory in a multi-mandate state district. The general election list consists of only five people representing a party or a party block. The second part, the second list, is a territorial list that's formed by the respective parties and blocks on the recommendation of their centres, the regional centres, and it's formed on the basis of those candidates that will go through the territorial lists if the party picks up, respectively, not me, well, there's going to be four, four or three percent, we're doing the calculation now. Then, of course, the five first persons representing the party in general go through all other mandates in the territory. It is the representation of the parties by the Central Election Commission. It's the same for everyone. In other words, you remember that when you forgot, perhaps when it was just a major election, how many were from the area, let’s say. Let's say Kharkiv region: 24 national MPs. So 24 now, I think, will be defined by CBC, representatives can be on the list of each party and the block offered by Kharkishte, each party and so on from all territories. Next. The parliamentary mandates are distributed between parties and blocs, of course, which will overcome the relevant barrier, in this way: five parliamentary mandates for candidates to the MPs, whose names are included in the national electoral list of the respective party and the bloc, the rest of the parliamentary mandates are given to candidates exclusively from the territorial lists of the respective party and the respective bloc, proportionally obtained votes of the electorate in each territory. In other words, if the four-percent barrier is overcome, five party leaders pass through immediately, or the party block, others will be committed, first of all, to those who acquire, let's say, in the same Kharkiv area, the calculation, 90, let's say, thousands is one mandate, if 270 parties in this region -- that means three mandates are already being allocated to this area. And so on. Next. You know, this is an interesting moment. As I read the text several times, I found more and more interesting points that characterize this approach. There's a combination of very harmonious elements like the majority system, because. In fact, when five come out of the party, it is understandable. But there is a territorial list, a representation from the territory. People already know, see who represents the territory. In addition, the party represents its representatives through these individuals, and people will see what party of persons here representing and wanting to see in the higher body of legislative authority. This merger is extremely important, and I think it can just give a reason for many who are now representing themselves from the majority districts to see themselves as a possible participant in these elections, because normally the formation of electoral lists of parties and blocks is carried out not only by party affiliation, but they can also be represented by non-party participants. This process. The proposed electoral system will ensure that elections are held on a proportionate basis while taking into account both national and relevant areas. And interests, and territories, and, accordingly, parties. This system will largely block the passage to the Parliament of random people because these people will have to be shown in the regions. It will enable electoral lists to take into account the principle of territorial representation of candidates in the MPs, and it will also help to preserve the same direct link between national deputies and voters in the respective territories. Right here, the elements are the same that are stored that are in the majority election system. We took into account all the suggestions that were from. We are offered to improve the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council. Besides, you're about to hear other drafts. I want to tell you that there are some very interesting elements that can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill, and that's why we're counting on this bill to be supported by the people's deputies in this room, what we're calling you to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u84	Victor Lavrentiovich, we also sincerely thank you for your time savings. You are wise before March 8th. Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up. Ten minutes. Kirilchuk. Get Petrenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u85	Surrender Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u86	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u87	Mr. Victor, thank you. That's a very interesting concept, an interesting report. I can be critical of her, but I'm curious: tell me, please, I know you're a man who's unbreakable, you've got your position, you've always shown it, but is there such an unbreakableness, given that so many drafts have been removed, and people have raped and forced to vote today, will your project stand up for the vote? That's the first part of my question. And a second. Regions and regional parties form lists. Are they approved by the convention? And can only the convention bring about changes, and on what grounds do the lists that the regions offer? And what is the ratio of law and initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u88	Well, the first question is the answer. I'm standing on this rostrum, I'm reporting a bill, I'm not filming it, and I'm counting, all the more, I'm calling you to vote for it. There are 44 articles in this bill that put all the technology into the lists of parties and party blocks for the national MPs. These lists are expected to be formed by party gatherings, but there is no doubt that candidates from the territories are being considered in the centers of the parties in places, and they are already in the order they consider to be representative of the territory proposed for the convention. Changes are possible, but you realize that they will be presented at the meeting once these issues are resolved to form a list in regional party and block organizations, and they will not be easily altered. But ultimately, the decision is made, of course, by the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u89	Please, Petrenko, the Communist faction. Get ready fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u90	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please hand Masenka over to Alexander Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u91	Masenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich, well, in my opinion, and interesting your suggestion, but also confused by the fact that I've watched this, so many are sitting there and the MPs don't understand. It's just that I've understood you completely, and a lot of people don't understand, you know. And that's why that's the question. If you are bound to the district, and you pass, take first place, and your party that recommended you does not pick up, pass the barrier, do you enter parliament or not? And if you don't get there, I understand that, then tell me, where are the voters' interests? The voters voted for you, they saw you as a representative of such a party, and in that region it turns out that the voter discrimination has passed. How's it going?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u93	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I may not have clearly explained the situation. Because even your question is that there is a misunderstanding. The point is that 27 regions, well, let's take regions like the area, let's say there's not going to be a division of not districts like the major districts right now, there's not going to be 450 districts, there's going to be 27 districts, and there's going to be an area, let's say I called Kharkivska, for example, there's going to be some party candidates in the Kharkiv region. And then when they get the right number of votes. And this is going to be 4 percent, or 3 percent, or 6, well, take, let's say, 10 percent, then 5 percent go, of course, the representatives, the party leaders are 5 percent national, and they're looking at the territory. It is clear that these mandates must be shared. Because they went through this 3 there or 4 there, or 10 percent, let's say. So depending on where more votes are cast to this party, they're given first of all, but given the number of votes voted for in this region. I've already given an example when I said, let's say, in the Chernigiv region, 180,000 votes for the party, let's say. And 90,000, that's one mandate, will have to give two mandates to the Chernigian region. Do you understand? And the representation is, but how else? The whole party didn't pass, so it didn't pass. They won't share anything with anyone. But it's not going to happen, because these choices are proportional, party lists are even though territorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u94	Victor Lavrentiovich correctly says nothing in this case will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u95	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u96	Please, Hiccup. Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Victor Lavrentiovich, I listened very carefully to your argument on this, but I have a question. Tell me, please, that MP who will be elected already, is he, according to your system, anchored in the district where he was elected or not? Why do I ask? Because we have this problem today. You go to the county, you go to the local council that you're here, and they say, "And we should ask our senior MP." Or worse yet, my associate walks around the market, looks, there's a militiaman collecting wages, he says, "I'm a sidekick to this people's deputy, Shibko." - And he's told: "We don't have one, we have one." This is the most terrible thing that's happened to major districts. How can we avoid doing so?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u98	Victor Yakovich, you know that this problem was caused by the imposition of this mixed system. Those who are elected by county and those who come on the lists as if they were visiting these districts and then allow or refuse to make contact with the electorate. This is about everyone choosing, 450 choosing from the party list or the block. But they are territorially bound. You're not going to a specific district right now, one of 450. You're going to go to the district in ARC, in Kiev this district is completely, Sevastopol. Here you are all the party representatives, just then you're going to share with each other right here in the middle, let's say, either in Kiev or in Lugansk or somewhere else you're going to divide from the party where you are, which part of this area is who's going to be responsible for. It's going to be a show.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry. I'm gonna take a break. I address our dear and charming women of the national MPs. Listen, please. Dear women! The Chief of the Supreme Council is waiting for you. Be good. I'm going on with the announcement. Yes, please, Mastermaster. Manchulenko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u100	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the Ukraine regions, District 14th Majority. Victor Lavrentiovich, I wanted to help you answer the question raised by Deputy Petrenko about the absence of that MP who would choose the region if the party didn't pass. The same flaws are in a purely proportional system. So it's exactly the same here. But I would still like to ask you a question. And just as I'm one of the authors of this bill, to say that if people today want to personally elect a president, and that's a perfect fact, so do people want to choose and see a representative of that party. Rather than bury it in closed lists, that is, the philosophy of this bill, but instead of working with the regions. There's the essence of the faction of the Regions and the Party of the Regions. I have a question for you. What does world experience say in this regard? Are there any examples? And what is the philosophy of applying such a bill in real life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u101	I can't tell you right now that the same mechanisms are being offered somewhere, they're being used. There's either a purely proportional system, or a mixed system, or a major system. For the region to go as we suggest, there are no five of them. From the regions there's representation, let's say it's raised and chosen, it's proportional to the regions. But there are more links to the districts. To make it as we are, it is actually a pioneer one that we have, just like this, five of these are raised from the party, the block, and the area. They're similar. For example, there is a similar system in Israel, there is a similar system in the Baltic republics, but there is no one that is clearly 100 percent as we suggest. I think that our system that we're offering is not less acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u102	Please, Manchulenka. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u103	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter, today we have a mixed electoral system where half of the deputies are elected in a state-wide multi-mandatory district based on closed party lists. But it would be illogical to go through the next stage, to go from mixed to purely proportional across the state district and with closed party lists and see what this model will do. And then it's possible to move on to the model that you've presented, it's interesting enough, I think. Because we want to tie a particular person to a particular territory, but I'm a major, I'm working in a district, and I'm one of those majorities that people don't see in their faces when they're chosen, and they won't see them until the end of the election. What this is, then, is the link between a major and a specific territory. On the other hand, there is a person selected for a party list, but he works very effectively in one territory or another. I mean, these are questionable questions. Let me hear your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u104	You know, I see something different, let's say, our movement towards more perfect election-related systems, for example, participation in political parties, blocks and the formation of the Supreme Council. The thing is, what I think the opposite is, we have to go through this path to the closed ones, if life shows that this path is not effective enough, then you can go completely to the closed party lists, because now we're taking steps away from being major, you see, half as major. She was a major, then half a major, and then straight to the closed gate! Still, the turning point is, it's more acceptable, in our view. And there life will show, if there's no difference, that right now half of them are sitting in the hall of people who've gone through the party lists and the blocks, how well they're working, that's how people are doing. Or we could go to a parliamentary, parliamentary kind of place. The main thing is working here, and there's no connection at all. That's what life will tell us. I think this path is more effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u106	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! Both you and I understand well that, indeed, perfect electoral systems do not exist, and there is no country where they are perfect. My question, therefore, is to qualify, not as criticism, but as reasoning. Please tell me, this is five men, I don't know, untouched, with indulgences and so on, who are these people? Today, Adam Ivanovich mentioned a party in which a fairly democratic election took place in 1990. I remember that party actually had this idea, the leader of the party, the party leaders did choose, and if they didn't choose, then let's say they had a trust mandate from some regional organizations. It comes out here, according to your bill, that they're practically not participating in the election company. So maybe they're a flag, maybe they're the signs of this party and so on. Why do you think they should be removed from the list that people in the regions really vote for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u107	The point is, it's about party and block lists. And they have, these lists, represented by people who, let's say, for a number of years we have lots of such parties, they're politicians known, they can represent a party like the face of being a party or a block, let's say. That's five people. And so we have the possibility of putting them even on territorial lists, representing them. But they're in this case, you know, it's a plus, and the minus could be for the party. Showing the face of the party, these people are party leaders, that means getting to the people with their faces, and this face may not be liked, no matter how acceptable they may be, let's say, in the territorial list. So it's not untouchable -- it's people who represent the party and the block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u108	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, this reminds me of a break. Let's talk about it. You and I have decided that we will work today until this matter is resolved. We can save this time by taking a break. If you don't want to, it'll be a break until 12.37.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. We need to consult. If it were your will that we should interrupt for five minutes our consideration of our question in order to have such lovely women with whom men will be the day before the good and light for all of us to take an oath from the members of the High Council of Justice. Do you have any objections? Thank you, Your Honor. Then we are now discussing the issue of acceptance. More loyally, it is not a question, but a formal, solemn ceremony of swearing by members of the High Council of Justice. To take the oath of office as Attorney General of Ukraine Vasiliev Hennaday Andriyovich. Please, Hennady Andriyovich, on the rostrum. I'm answering. Hennady Andriyovich, according to the Constitution, is a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. We've agreed with you, the President has appointed you. Please, Hennady Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u110	I swear conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of judges of high-skilled, highly professional, and honest lawyers and the observance of the Law and Ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u111	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Please, I swear. The Andrians, Vladimir Ivanovich, are invited to make an oath. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u112	Distinguished People's Deputies! I, the Andrians of Vladimir Ivanovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - ranking and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u113	Thank you. Olga Leonidivna Žukowska is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u114	Honorable National Deputies! I, Olga Leonidivna Zhukovska, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u115	Thank you. Lydia Paulna Izwitov is invited to make an oath. Dear colleagues! Shame be on you, but not before March 8. Show courage. Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u116	Distinguished People's Deputies! I, Izboit’s Lydia Pavlovna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u117	Please, I swear. Don't worry, it's all behind. Yes, please, before taking an oath, I invite Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u118	I, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a high - professional and honest judiciary and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u119	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Please, I swear. I invite you to make an oath. Curious Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u120	I, the Kudriwats of Viktor Viktorovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a high - professional and honest judiciary and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u121	Thank you. Kuzmin Renat Raviliyovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u122	Dear National Deputies! I, Kuzmin Renat Raviliyovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a high - professional and honest judiciary and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u123	Thank you. Safulko Sergey Fedorovich is invited to take the oath. You don't? Dear colleagues, let us welcome the members of the High Council of Justice and wish that they faithfully and conscientiously perform the oath they have just made before the higher legislature. [[Applause]] Yes, and you and I are continuing our consideration of our next question. Draft law 4285-4 on the election of Ukrainian national deputies will be reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Rudekovsky Mikolaajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a historic event, we are considering laws on proportional elections. And I hope that today we will make a decision and put an end to those eight years of efforts by the opposition forces to adopt legislation that would make it impossible to falsify and bribe in elections. I remember three times during this operation of the Supreme Council, we put the matter to a vote three times. And three socialists, communists, our Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Tymoshenko voted in favour of this law with one goal to deprive the future of the possibility of falsification in elections and to ensure fair will and representation of the trust of people in parliament. Taking into account the fact that we have set the goal of moving Ukraine to the parliamentary-presidential republic and the need for a more consolidated position in the Supreme Council and the creation of a majority that would take responsibility for the fate of the state and for the activities of the government, we must adopt the very law of the classical proportional system. That Law 4285-4 that I'm introducing right now is classic, and he's proposing to elect national MPs from parties and blocs on the one national election list. The law provides for the organization of the electoral process: the central, 225 territorial electoral commissions and the divisional commissions. The law provides for one accumulation account of parties and blocks and 225 distributions to finance the electoral process. The law does not limit the amount, as it were, to the ceiling of electoral financing. The law provides 4 percent of the barrier. There was a discussion: 4 or 3, or 5, or 6. There were suggestions that we should have 6 for the blocks. But I would like to draw attention to the Yulia Block of Timoshenko that during the discussion we insisted that there should be one barrier for all — whether it be four or three. And all parties and blocks must stand in one condition. In view of the fact that the Central Election Commission was working on this law, Anatoly Matviyenko’s profile committee worked on it three times in support of the committee’s meeting. We've been working with experts in the Department of Law. I think this law can be adopted today as a basis and as a whole, but I would add a few technical rights. And so I want to read carefully the technical regulations that, you know, there are always boundaries in any law for improvement. This can be done endlessly. Again, we can make it more complicated, more simple, but we need to make such a law that has the trust of most voters, which is understandable to voters. And so if we go into a complex system, we won't be able to organize the electoral process according to the law. We're going to make an incomprehensible regional when there may be no MPs from the regions at all. Again, it is a flaw. This law ensures maximum representation, the will of citizens in the Supreme Council. And so, by the law, technical remedies. I want to read it for the record. In part four of article 23 of the draft law, replace the words "eighth" with "six." In paragraph nine, two articles 26 replace “article 71” with “article 74”. In part five of article 29, add to paragraphs two, five, six, nine, eleven. To complete part of the first article 37 with a new sentence of the sixth and seventh sentences: "The issue of a resilient certificate in a document referred to in paragraph one or three parts of one article two shall be marked with the name and signature of the member of the electoral panel issuing the certificate, the numbers and the issuance of the certificates, the seals of the electoral committee. In the issuance of the ballot, a voter who has come to vote with a strong certificate in the same document by a member of the constituency election committee to which the voter has come for voting shall be marked with the name and signature of the member of the district election committee certified by the seal of the electoral commission. In part 3 of article 34, replace article 83 with article 88, part 5 of article 44, in an editorial way: The nomination of candidates to the MPs is made as an electoral list of candidates to the MPs from parties, blocks by form approved by the Central Election Commission. Women and men have equal rights to participate in the nomination of candidates to the MPs, as well as the rights to be included in the electoral list of candidates removed from the parties, the blocks. The number of candidates on the list is determined at meetings, assemblies, conferences, and the election list of candidates for both male and female. A person can be included in a selection list of only one match, one block. In part 6 of article 44, replace the figure 120 by 130. In article 45, part 1, paragraph 5, replace the word "eighth" with the word "seventh". In article 45, part 1, paragraph 12, at the end of the sentence, add “not later than 120 days before the election day”. Part 1 of article 44 is edited as follows: clarification. The money raises five hundred thousand dollars, which is paid by a party or parties that are part of the constituency, in a cash - free order for a special account of the Central Electoral Commission. In part 1 of article 47, at the end of the sentence, add "not later than 130 days before election day." In article 49, part 1, paragraph 3, replace "Articles 41 and 42" with "Articles 42 and 43". In the first sentence of part 3 of article 49, the words "article 43 of this law" and "based on article 42 of this law" should be replaced by "article 45." In article 49, part 1, paragraph 8, replace article 19 with article 9. In paragraph 9 of part 1 of article 51, article 19 on article 9. In part 2 of article 51, the Central Electoral Commission should add "no later than 10 days before election day". In article 62, part 6, paragraph 6, replace the words “articles 83-87” with “article 87”. In the second sentence, part 5 of article 68 after the words "made from" add the word "transparent." In part 9 of article 69, replace the words "article 69" with "article 73." In part 1 of article 71, the final sentence is worded as follows: "This statement, together with the medical report on the state of health and the identification of the voter's whereabouts, may be made no later than 16 hours before the beginning of the vote." In part 12 of article 72, replace the word "article 69" with "article 71." In part 13 of article 76, replace the words “in part 1 of article 73” with “in part 1 of article 74”. In part 3 of article 78, replace the word "four" with the word "three". [[is meant for percentages]] And in such an editorial form, honourable colleagues, this law can be adopted both as a basis and as a whole, by voting today. I'm pointing out to you that the law, and these amendments that I read, Adam Ivanovich, could be done. That question was discussed yesterday on the committee. A question was asked. If, in principle, there are no objections to the hall, this law can also be voted on as a whole. Of course, we might ask if we should pass a law on proportional choices. The Law on Proportional Elections is essential for the democratization of society, in order for us to put an end to the fact that, unfortunately, there are oligarchs in Ukraine today. I hope the MPs will support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Let me explain. Please, ten minutes, Lechchenka. He's behind him, Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u126	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikolaiovich, of course, we will support the bill, especially since it is completely the same as the communists had previously introduced, it is exactly the same. We will definitely be supportive. But please tell me, are you sure, authors, I mean that the proportional system you're proposing will be protected from the impact of financial and administrative resources on just enough to reflect the interests of the electorate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u127	Among the authors of this bill is the National MP Ponomarenko, a member of the Communist faction, who has worked very actively to ensure that all of these warnings that you are talking about are included in this law. We've been working on this law with experts, with people working in district and district commissions, members including your party, the Socialist Party, the recommendations of our Ukraine and so on. I want to say that this law will really radically change the situation in our country. It will allow you to select only parties and blocs that actually use confidence in citizens who are really worthy to represent them and control mechanisms on the district boards of anti-agitation control are set up that do not actually allow for falsification or any kind of election results.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u128	Please, Gabrieluk. He's after him, Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u129	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Nikolai Nikolaevich, do you think that today your bill violates the rights of citizens, which are clearly reflected in the Ukrainian Constitution, which states that everyone can be elected. Second question. Why you can't and how you treat open lists. Unclosed lists that you have placed as the basis of your bill on a proportional system, namely open lists. Why are you behind closed lists? And I would very much like to say that for our radio audiences and our voters who are listening. That the system of closed lists today is the basis for the usurpation of power not only by 5 to 7 leaders, but above all by central authority, where the territories will not be represented at all. They will not be represented at all. Our territorial constituencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u130	Honorable Listeners and Honorable People’s Deputies! Nobody closed the list, but what you're saying is that it's a violation of the Constitution. No, it's not in violation of the Constitution at all. Such laws work. It's the only, unfortunately, mechanism to break up the situation that we have today, that, unfortunately, deputies come to the districts six months before the election, and for four years they don't work with voters. [[Unfortunately, such deputies are the majority]] The MPs vote in their positions, not in their own election orders. And there's no mechanism for controlling the electoral side of those deputies who vote, for example, for lowering the minimum wage minimum wage and so on. There is no political responsibility. And you and I are politicians, and we put in mechanisms like this. I'm convinced that those Marjorie MPs who are now, they already have their political sympathy for one party or another, and they will be identified with party membership and will be able to represent their constituencies in their district, and already representing the party. We, for example, think that the communists do, by creating a list of socialists and communists, offer representatives from all regions of Ukraine. Even where we are voted 5 percent in Montenegro, we have a Montenegrin national deputy because we want Western Ukraine represented on the Socialists' list. This is a democratic system that allows for the representation of all regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u131	Please, Hellcat. Follow him, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u132	Nikolai Nikolaevich. Paklusenko, the "Regions" faction of Zaporozhye. As a politically responsible person, you must now write a list of major MPs who are not in the district for four years. That's the first one. Second. You're all talking about how good your laws are. Tell me, please, what's wrong with today's law, and what's wrong with today's system? If she's dead, why do we have 120, 200 people to attend? Why do we get 3,000 letters if this system survives? All these hints that you're throwing away and your colleagues are separate from the fact that the Marjorie deputies came with money are insulting not only us, but also insulting our voters. Please answer the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u133	I apologize to those people's deputies who are actually working actively in their districts. In the ranks of our faction is Stanislaw Nikolaynko, a national MP who passed from socialist to district. I think there are others who work fairly in their districts. There's no claim to you. We're asking the question that you know how to organize. Here you and some of the others have honestly organized elections in their districts, without bribery, without blackmail, without pressure. But you know how it's always done, it's done in most districts by power. It's blackmail, pressure, threats and so on. We must put an end to this once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u134	Please, Taran. Tomic's behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u135	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear colleague Mikola, the higher the barrier, the more authoritative parties and blocs will win the election and the clearer the parliamentary structure will be. Please tell me why, despite this obvious truth, do you agree to lower the barrier from four percent to three? The fact is that the fate of constitutional reform depends essentially on the faction, whether it supports these changes or not. If so, why not stand firm for four percent of your colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u136	I'll explain to you that the socialists are clearly on the question -- we need to carry out constitutional reform, we need to deprive the powers, the unlimited powers of the President, these powers to transfer to the government and the Supreme Council, so that at the next election, who would not be elected, whether the opposition or the majority representative, there is no new old person around him, who was already in power, an oligarchy group, and who continued to manipulate the President and the whole state. We want to put an end to this. So if you're talking about interest, there's no difference in political structure -- either three or four or five. The difference is between one and five. And I'm telling you as a representative of Julia Timoshenko's block: we, the socialists, in the negotiations and in the conciliatory board on the board, stand for your first interests when we say that only one barrier is three percent for the parties and for the blocks. That's what you're asking. And you're still training me in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u137	Please, Tomich. Tomich is passing it on to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u138	Thank you. Ivan Tomic, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please give the floor to your colleague Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u139	Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u140	Yuri Klukkowski, Ukrainian People's Movement, Viktor Yushchenka's Block faction, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I must say one thing first. Indeed, this bill was drafted on the basis of a bill that was proposed by the Electoral Law Institute, which I have the honour to present. And he really has a purpose to create all the conditions for honest and free elections. However, I would like to point out that the reporter, and I will ask him to answer this question right now, has taken over his incompetent authority. There are four drafters. And only at the agreed position of the four authors does he have the right to propose changes. Yesterday some of the ones he announced from the rostrum, we agreed with him, but I did not hear the agreement of a colleague of Ponomarenko, or more of a colleague of Olujka, who is now on a mission to Sweden. In addition, article 6.5. Part two of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules prohibits amendments to the bill before the first reading. That's why I'm asking you to tell the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u141	I want to inform Yuri Klukkowski. Dear Mr. Yuri, most of the questions that we agreed on with you, I answered them from the rostrum. But given the fact that we've been working on this law for a long time, we've, in fact, been cleaning it up with experts for a year and a half with the legal group of the Central Electoral Commission. This is, indeed, the legal rights that will give me the opportunity, I've sounded them, which will allow us to adopt the law today as a whole. There's nothing left to rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u142	Thank you. The bill on election of Ukrainian national deputies, registration number 4285-6, is reported by National Deputy Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u143	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I want to tell you that the second time I'm going to report from this rostrum is the electoral law on a proportional basis, but with regional lists. And I am very glad that so many national MPs are already making such a statement. And today another law has been introduced that we have listened to, reported Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak. And I think these two laws are related, we can essentially work on their work. You know, I'm an MP for the second cadence. And I've been on the list for the first time, and now I'm elected major. And I can tell you quite honestly and frankly, the adoption of the law by one closed list is the path of the Middle Ages. There will be no democracy in this. I can tell you that as a cyanide. There'll be more than 300 kyans sitting there. For Kiev it's good, for Ukraine it's bad. There will not be many regions here that will not even be spoken of in a good word. Many say how it is in a civilized Europe. I advise you very much, many of you have this booklet, it's distributed, "The European Parliament and the countries that are in the European Parliament." Look at her. There is no single-list system in any European Union country. I'm just going to give you an example of one country, you know, Luxembourg is 420,000, four regional lists. What are we talking about, my friends? If we want to build national parties, how can we build them without regions? [[B in m in s a l in]] . I'll tell you what else is the advantage of such a law. The thing is, you know perfectly well that when one list goes on, about every political party already knows how much it can really gain. And those MPs who feel like they don't go to parliament, they're not going to work on themselves, they're going to work on this party, and you don't know anything on the regional lists, you don't know anything -- it's dark, it depends on how the region pulls it and it can come out. And it's very useful to build a party, to build a system. Then, let's say this is where all the kyans are going to go, in Kiev they can work, and who will work in other regions? They won't work. And when you are tied to a regional list, you will work in this region to preserve these voter votes and to accumulate them even more. That's why I, the only part of me, is related to the regional lists. I urge you to make a proportional law in Ukraine, we have to do it with regional lists only, because we have a one-bedroom Parliament, we don't have a second chamber to protect the interests of the regions. And we need it to be balanced in both the political and regional aspects. And I don't think there's any alternative to that. And now I want to stop at a few moments of the technical election process, because my bill describes these moments in sufficient detail. Wait a second. The thing is, I have a bill that's universal. It's based both on the next election, and on the next election, that's 60 days, both there and there. What's that for? Now you want to make changes to the Constitution and you give the President a lot more rights to actually dissolve Parliament. If you make a law in another 120-day election and suddenly dissolve it, you'll have to double back and forth, as it were, run the entire electoral campaign. In my opinion, this is foolish. Better to make a universal law that would clearly track both the queue and the extra term. The second moment is a very important registration system. I think there's a lot of flaws in other laws. What are they all about? They're all going to register candidates for the MPs, and until all the candidates register, that's, you know, 450, the agitation doesn't start. I've solved this process. I need only a participant to register. So he registers as a party or a block and registers the lists themselves as a form. This can be done in one day. Everyone else, you're going and you're aging. And over the month, there's a candidate, and it doesn't touch anyone completely, but you've been taking part in the advocacy work for almost 60 days. Under my law, it's impossible to get out of the election. Even if you've broken some financial accounts. There's also one account that goes through all the funding. It's all public, but it can't be taken. It's for the electorate to be informed that someone's disturbed something there and so on. Only a voter can withdraw from the election if he makes an official statement, and only seven days before the election. If he later filed it, it would not be erased from the ballot, just his votes would be distributed among the other candidates. IT IS so that no one will print these ballots in the last days. Next, the shape of the ballot. I suggest you do the ballot in a coat, well, in a knitting, harshly speaking. It's like a checkbook. All the ballots will be numbered on the cover. And there's information about the movement of the ballot, starting with the printing press to the station. When a newsletter is issued, a member of the district commission pulls it off the book on the line, and the box stays in the coat. Right. All the ballots aren't numbered, but the numbered books themselves. Such a system does not allow for counterfeiting. Because when ballots are scattered, then, really, you can throw as much as you want. And while they're in a coat and a shelf, they keep all the roots, they're practically fake, they can't make a lot of other ballot papers. And what's more, they're still protected by color depending on the region, each of the 27 regions will have a different color. One more moment, I'd like to say very much. According to the protocol. Each participant in the election, by my law, according to drawing, has a number on the ballot. Let's take the example of a party of regions, I think they'll let me. Consider that your number ten is drawn by drawing lots. So there's going to be as many originals at the polls as there are voters. And a bunch of regions have their tenth copy in all the polling stations. And you can get it whenever you want, even if the observer wasn't there at night, when you counted and subdued, they can come the next day and always the tenth copy is there. And so each participant in the election. This diversification of protocols will never allow protocols to rewrite and adjust election results. All participants in all stations will be required to have their minutes with their number corresponding to their electoral number in the ballot box. Dear National Deputies! I think it's very good that for the first time, perhaps in these years of our work, we have devoted so much attention to the important law of the formation of the political system in Ukraine, particularly the parliament. And I want to encourage you, there's still a lot of very interesting money in this law, and you can read about it, and I'm saying it's essentially electoral technology. And there's a lot of attention here. But we have to, if we go to a proportional system only with regional lists, let's do one cadence. And the next cadence needs a regional list of preferences. And this will be a real European experience. It will be a truly civilized European society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u144	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Please sign up for the questions. Let me explain. Yes, please, Boki. Prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u145	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, I want to ask you a very short question. What's the material on this jacket? From the fabric or from the chemical elements? This time. And the color supplement is what? 27? There aren't so many. Is that what it's like then? Do you have to combine colors or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u146	Officially, according to law, ballot papers are made at our coin factory. A palette is a patch, like a book, like a checkbook. And I don't think there can be any objections here. Moreover, the ballot papers are officially accepted by the Central Election Commission and all representatives of the election participants who are registered in the CLTC. So I don't think there's gonna be a big problem here. As far as color is concerned, colors can be colorful, that is, different color combinations allow you to make 27 different colors. To make sure of that, I can advise you to go to any store and buy markers, you'll see that the number of colors there is even more than 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u147	Please, Gabrieluk. He's behind him, Costinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u148	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Valery Mikhailovich! I'd like to ask you. You don't think the Rudzkowski bill he reported to you is. We can't help but think of him as a political bribe.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u149	I don't have the right to answer that question, he has the right to exist just like my bill. It's everyone's thinking differently.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u150	Please, Kostinuk, follow him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u151	Dear reporter! The National Movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear reporter! What you said is, of course, your law has a lot of advantages compared to others, because there's a very good procedure, and there's all the other nuances. He's got a lot of positives. But, to my deep conviction, he's not in time, we can go back to his consideration of the years after five to ten. You said that modern electoral legislation or the maintenance of a proportional system is like the Middle Ages. So Ukraine is in this power and it is in the Middle Ages. For us to get out of this system of things, we need to move forward gradually. I want to ask you. First. I want you to understand this particular problem that it's not on time. Oh, that's different. If your bill gets a few dozen votes, that is, up to a hundred votes, can you say to yourself that you will no longer bring it into Parliament's consideration? Thank you. And we'll be back to him in five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u152	First of all, what I'm trying to say is we're not getting out of the Middle Ages if we get it legally fixed. That's clear. Then, I think that we actually, by the way, said Victor Lavrentiovich, we've taken some consistent steps. We had a majority system, we've already made a proportional system, and now, I think, just in time to make a proportional system, but with regional lists that take into account the interests of all regions and Ukraine. So let's say it's not in time, I'd say it's just the opposite, it's going to be in time, and in five years, if we, God forbid, adopt a law with one list, we'll never go into such democratic forms again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u153	Please, dear. After him, Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u154	Dear Valery Mikhailovich! I may have a question not so much in terms of methods and procedural elements of your law, but in general ideology. This has been the case for the past two years that we have been constantly hearing that in the regions there are outrages, and these outrages are also due to the fact that the leaders of the regions have come to Parliament, and everything else that we, as a matter of fact, have never been pleased to hear. And today I'm hearing about a plot that's coming back to what you and your colleagues have been hard on for two years. What's the matter? Reasons, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u155	I think that we have outrages all over the country, including in all regions. It's totally not about the law. That one list, that regional lists, is not related to disgrace. I think we need to move towards civil society when we adopt this law. European experience shows that there is no electoral law in any European Union country with a single closed list.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u156	Please, Lukyanenko. After him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u157	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Please pass the voice to Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u158	Terra's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Leukka. Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear Valery, I congratulate you on your universal law being applauded by the majority. And the first question is, why do you think they're applauding you? That's the first question. And two: please tell the MPs who came from the regions that in this room are good, normal deputies. Well, let's say Vasil Gavriluk of Kremenchuk or other. Who are they now? Are They Chihuahuas? Are they regional representatives? They represent regions the same way, and they should not be represented, as they say, by pure pebbles and contrast them with those living in the regions today. I mean, I think you're artificially accentuating that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u160	I just gave an example. And I could give you this example on your party, and that's not the point. I wouldn't want us to share the notion of opposition here at all and most of it by some kind of, you know, opposite sign. Let me give you an example of this: I had to be in the Polish fair in 2000. And so I've seen Poles, and most, and opposition, together, working together, together, working together without any contradiction, to bring Polish legislation to European standards. Maybe that's why they moved so far, and we're just hanging out. In my view, if there are intelligent things that either the majority or opposition offers, they need to be heard, accepted, improved, voted and put into effect. And then we will not stand against one another like the enemies of the people. We are all Ukrainian citizens here, consciously wanting to divorce us today, so that we can walk together, and we must realize that and not do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u161	Please, Orzhachowski, follow him Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u162	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear colleague, I'm not a party to your bill as a whole, although when we were on the committee talking, there was a way to negotiate and find ways to compromise. But the committee did offer you to look at and find common points of conflict with other bills, especially Klukkowski, Rudzkowski, Ponomarenko, and so on. Why didn’t you take the advice? And the second. You're offering so many innovations. What are some ways in which you see, for example, the formation of election committees under your bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u163	Election committees are formed according to the quota system, with quotas not only from the participants on the committees themselves but also from heads, substitutes and secretaries, quotas. So they form committees exclusively for the election. As for the modification of the possibility, I said that my law could be modified into a system reported by Musiak, i.e. five people on a general list, everything else, in a regional one. And there might even be this modification, it's very easy to do everything, because the list, in principle, is one, it's just sections of it that are regional. This may even be a revision: 225 - a single list and 225 - a regional list, and it may be a modification. But the key thing I want to understand is that there must be a regional component. Because as soon as this room turns out, there will be no deputies from any region. Trust me, we're compromising this whole system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u164	Please, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u165	Thank you. Victor Zaicko, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Valery Mihajlovich, I share your ideology with regard to the regional lists today. But I would like to ask you this question: if on first reading your law acquires a majority, would you be willing to consider this law on second reading in a package dealing with the issue of deprivation of parliamentary integrity. What is important today, too, for the consolidation of democracy in our State today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u166	The Law on the Election of People’s Deputies does not regulate the issue of parliamentary immunity, it is regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine. And so this is not the subject of this law. As for if the law is adopted in the first reading, I can tell you that I will never insist that it be accepted as a whole. It needs to be worked out and looked for more points of contact with other things. And of course, we still have to work pretty hard on it, like any other law that can be voted on as a basis today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u167	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u169	Law on Election of Ukrainian National Deputies, Registration Number 4285-7. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u170	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Respectful colleagues, when considering the electoral system, must take into account the electoral representation system developed by the world society at the parliamentary level and take into account actual domestic practices. All modern democracies are built on the principle of territorial, stressing presentations through constituencies. In addition, regardless of how the votes are considered in one-mandate majority districts or in a multi-majority district. Representation is always territorial. It's a kind of polytological axiom. Thus, the electoral system model should ensure, as much as possible, the establishment of a Parliament that reflects the mood of the broadest sectors of the population and ensures the formation of an effective coalition government. But in the view of most Europeans, the return of most European and national experts on electoral law is, in the opinion of the majority of Europeans, the most successful model is the mixed model, the majority model. At the same time, voting in one-maned districts for political parties in favour of regional party lists helps to address the issue of regional and territorial representation, ensuring that the interests of the regions are taken into account more effectively. In turn, the territorial, regional, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Kiev, Sevastopol representation is an important component of equitable proportional representation, the formation of mass parties, the strengthening of the political structure of society and the strengthening of the principle of proportionality. Before describing the proposed model of the bill, I believe it is fundamental to stress the following: I am in favour of strengthening the political structure of society; I am in favour of strengthening the principle of proportionality in electoral legislation. Why, then, do I not support the electoral bills based on pure proportions only on party lists because I believe Ukraine is not ready for elections on a purely proportional basis today and by 2006. I don't think it's just me. Here are the main arguments: the weak political structure of society; for today, parties have not become the link between the electoral territory and the chosen institution. And this situation greatly reinforces the imperfect electoral legislation, the low level of confidence in parties and many politicians, the need for constituencies in a particular MP, who is personally and politically responsible for the district, and the district is fully assisted by both local authorities and the electorate. You, my dear colleagues, know that often the people's representative of Ukraine is the last plot of a particular person. It is also not possible to mention the principle on which party lists are based, so called rigid proportions. I'm sure it's a different extreme, I'll point out. First of all, I mean that today all in the same voice, especially the so-called opposition factions, claim that the administrative resources must be abolished, any way to get away from it. Thus, as we move away from one extreme, we come to the next, an imperative mandate, which means strengthening the leadership and usurpation of power. When the ultimatum states that either a pure proportion or nothing, when it is claimed that other options are in fact being put forward, only to overturn political reform itself, I will answer immediately and in advance. First of all, I'm not going to do anything wrong, second of all, I'm not going to accept ultimatums and someone's right to put them up, third of all, for compromises, for reconciliation of interests, not just parts of the MP Corps. That is why I am presenting the bill as a compromise, and I propose that it be thought through. I believe it is useful to propose a bill in which the majority elections will take the maximum political and party form. How? First, the right to move is granted only to parties, and self-immovement is not provided for. Secondly, all major candidates speak only as party representatives, I would like to emphasize the party representatives and build their electoral campaign on the platform of the party's programme, the party that nominated them. Dear colleagues, I am aware that today's meeting will bring to the attention of the constituency the key proposal of the proposed bills, and I am aware that the main criterion in evaluating the bill will be the principle of proportional elections for many. I understand there are prejudices. As soon as some hear that the project is not purely proportional, they will immediately, without any thought, begin to dissipate it, roughly speaking. I therefore take it that, in particular, I would like to invite my colleagues to hear first, to properly assess the proposed compromise and then to draw conclusions. In my view, the principle of democracy and equal opportunities can be demonstrated that members of the pro-proportionary law, however, will give the opportunity to discuss the bill with a compromise principle, as we have tried our best to reach agreement between a proportionate and majorist approach and the mandatory condition that the majority will be maximized, as I have noted earlier, by the role of the party. I would like to emphasize that our bill has been drafted mainly on the basis of an existing law, which has been highly appreciated by the vast majority of both Ukrainian and international experts. The procedural part took into account, as far as possible, both the recommendations of the OSCE and the Council of Europe observers and the proposals made by the members of the Central Electoral Commission and the views of the Ukrainian people's deputies. We have already entered into a discussion with our political part of the bill, so I would not like to sharpen its procedural aspects. Thus, the substance of the main provisions of the bill is the following. The electoral system. Elections are held on a mixed electoral system. It is thus suggested that 225 people's deputies are elected in majorities in the relative majority. 225 deputies in the State-wide, multi-mandatory constituency, on party lists of electoral blocs. The nomination of candidates: (a) The right to nominate candidates in one-mandatory districts is reserved for political parties or constituencies; the procedure for the preparation of nominations, the compilation of lists of candidates is determined by the parties themselves, taking into account the following: the candidates for the Ukrainian People's Deputies in one-maned districts are provisionally approved at conferences, meetings of regional political party organizations or political party blocs, as well as the lists of candidates for the people's constituencies are approved at the assembly, party conferences or the bloc; at the same time, the bill authorizes the nomination of candidates and regional party conferences, the bloc in the interim elections; (b) A single party electoral list for the nomination of candidates for deputies in State-wide multi-mandate districts consists of two lists, the central one, where five leaders are nominated separately, and 27 regionally 220 persons, in accordance with the territorial arrangement of Ukraine, as defined in article 133, section 2, of the Constitution. There is an appropriate calculation of the formulas we have taken from our colleague Assadchev's bill and it is, in our view, more optimal and ideal. The sequence of the electoral lists process is determined by the parties themselves. The lists are based on the fact that the parliamentary mandates received by the party as a result of the elections are distributed among the candidates to the deputies from the beginning of the list as a matter of priority. The lists are approved and submitted to the CEC by party and block assemblies. Introducing the outcome of the elections. Introduction of the outcome of the election in a multi-mandatory constituency. Parties, blocs that have won 4 per cent or more of the votes of voters throughout Ukraine have the right to vote. The following sequence is proposed for this purpose. First. These are very important principles. The number of voters required to obtain one parliamentary mandate is determined. Second. The total number of mandates received by each party is established. Third. The number of parliamentary mandates received by each party by each regional electoral list shall be determined. All of the procedures listed are carried out by means of mathematical formulas in the bill. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that candidates are immediately appointed to the party's deputies. The 4 per cent barrier has been overcome by the electoral commission system. The responsibility for organizing elections is vested in the three-level system of the CEC electoral commissions, district and district electoral commissions. Lists of voters. In the proposed bill, the procedure for compiling voters'lists remained in force. And my time, my dear colleagues, is up. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u171	Thank you. Sign up. Let me explain. Yes, please, 10 minutes. Manchulenko. Behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u172	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! I understand your concern as a representative of a one-man constituency, and I would actually say, I would give you the humiliation on the side of Bank Street in relation to those deputies who represent one-man election districts in order to force them to vote for a purely proportional electoral law. And I'm here in this respect with you. On the other hand, we feel that the past parliamentary elections in many areas have put pressure on the electorate to choose exactly the candidate that the authorities would like to see. How to find a reasonable compromise in this situation, and how to get out of this situation by minimizing administrative resources in parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u173	Thank you for asking. You know what we're looking at today, I really hope that if this is about first reading. And yesterday it was on a commission that was considering these bills, a proposal from a colleague of Sobolva, who said, "Dear colleagues, where we are in a hurry. Let's take a look. Today, there are five or seven bills where there are sometimes better provisions. So let's look at all of these and gather them together and then we'll look at the Supreme Council, let's get the MPs to know each other and so on." Unfortunately, you know very well why there is a hurry, why they don't allow us to get to know each other and so forth. With regard to guarantees, the guarantee is our position and our conviction. In many districts there was an administrative resource, it would appear to be in some form, but the main thing is that we start to understand and act by law, live and work by law, then there will be fewer opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u174	Please, Zybenko. He's got Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u175	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleague! I'd like to take into account the number of questions you've asked the authors of other projects and the content of these questions and, above all, the tonality, I've come to the conclusion that you think you're the only one who knows what work is in a major district. I was elected twice in the Majority District, not by authority, not by being a grain tender, but by the authorities. That's why I know something about it. But I would like to tell you that it's very sad when an important law, such as the election of national MPs, becomes a hostage of the situation and is sacrificed to political reform. I don't have another explanation for what's going on in this room, because even some of the authors of today's projects that have the best chance of going through are working to destroy this law. I'm sorry, it's bitter and sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u176	You know, you've got a very good theme. Unfortunately, I have not had enough time to express my position on this, but I would like to tell you, my colleague, what the changes to the Constitution are for today. In order to weaken or violate the rights of our constituents, the rights of our people? Today, it is clearly stated in the Constitution that everyone has the right to be elected. We're getting out of this today. It's only for you to figure out today who needs these sacrifices? Political leaders or people in our country, our country? I think the answer for us with you is known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u177	Please, Zarubinsky. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u178	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, your bill is in principle interesting, it deserves attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u180	And I think there's going to be a part of the MPs that will support him. But I have a question like this. Here's your statement, and we're having a broadcast, they said that we're not ready for Ukraine to have a proportional system, we have weak political parties, we don't have a political structure today. Don't you understand, Your Honor Vassilovich, that you yourself are sorry for the banality, but you're pouring water on the mill of those for whom the political party is like a red pot for a bull who never understood the essence of a real political party and they don't want to understand, because the political party is a rival and rival to clans, oligarchs and so on. I would like you to publicly refute this statement on the grounds that we have political parties not ready for proportional elections. And then there's the other one. There's a lot of questions about this rhetorical character: don't you think we have majors?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u181	Thank you for asking. I cannot refute this claim because today, no more than three per cent of our country's voters are just party members. That's a fact. Among other things, the very important situation that we have with you today is that, as the basis of my bill, I have introduced, I understand that we need to develop our parties, we need to develop political structure as an alternative to today's, as you say, clans. But all we have to do is start from the bottom. And in my bill, our bill just stipulated that it would be the cells of local parties that would elect candidates, then regional organizations would approve them, and only then the central authorities of the party. And that's how these parties are going to develop. And today it's not. And once a pure proportion of Rudzkowski is adopted, then some Kievyans will sit in this Parliament and are not representatives of the regions, which we are against in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u182	Respectful colleagues, those who ask questions and speak, clearly control your time, because the chairman before shutting down the microphone has a bearing, does the automatic work, and does not take offense. Just look at the monitor, it shows how much time you have left. Please, dear. He's behind him, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u183	Dear colleague, this is where the passions are starting to boil, and I'd like to ask everyone to be a little calmer, and it doesn't add anything to our benefit, either. Please tell me, if your bill is not adopted on first reading, but there will be some other way to go, and with whom are you ready to work out on your own basis, with your law and your vision of it? To Goshovsky or to those who offer to go to a clean proportion? What laws do you think your work can go into? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u184	That's a very interesting question. How can I stand for a pure proportion when it is precisely the essence of our bill and the essence of my statement that I am categorically opposed to the position of a pure proportion, given that the voters do not support it. You know, if today's issue of pure proportions is put to a referendum in our country, no one will support it. Why, when it came to the fact that the President must also be elected by Parliament as passionate, how did they want to bring all of this into the public debate? As we have heard from people, do not take away this opportunity. So why, we want to take away people's right to have their own MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u185	Please prepare Polishku instead of Nikolayenko. I'm sorry, Nikolainka now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u186	Nikolainka, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I would like to disagree with you on the fact that if there are proportional elections, all the deputies from Kiev will be. For example, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has virtually no original cyanide. And our deputies work more and more in the regions than they do in Kiev. First. The other one. You're saying that the more MPs work, the more majors work. I'm a three-pronged major. I want to tell you, as I watch what's happening in Ukraine, I see the more majors are working, the worse people are living. We need the local authorities to work. And the third. International experience, you say, in small countries, is proportional. So let's get to 10,000 of Ukraine's population, to 10 million, and then we're going to make the majority, the proportion. Let's save the people sooner or later.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u187	I did not say that in small countries and so forth, you may not have listened very carefully. I would like to say, distinguished colleagues, in fact, today is a very controversial issue. And you, my colleague Nikolaenko, are well aware that you have been chosen and supported by your party because there was a particular representation of Nikolaenka in this district. And if that is the system, I think I would urge the leaders of the factions of the Communists, the socialists to go in principle, please, Alexander Alexandrovich, the respected Simonenko. Allow regional lists to participate, but as proposed by the “Regions” party. And when he asked Nadrag. I would like to say that it is a compromise option, and he has won 10 votes in this commission, second in favour of the Rudzikowski bill. I therefore believe that this bill can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u188	Please, Polychuk, Kirilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u189	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm known to be co-author of this bill that you're reporting on. So I'm not going to ask you a question, but I want to get my colleagues' attention because it's a piece of legislation that's compromising. So please say two words about the compromise laid down in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u190	Thank you, Kirilo Ananiyovich. The compromise is that we have made every effort in our bill to take the best possible account of the country's development interests into account in the political structure of society and the interests of the people, especially those who choose and expect to have their national representative from the majority district. But only political parties have the right to move to the Majority District. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u191	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, all the bills that have been presented to us for consideration have been reported. On behalf of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council for the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz has co-chaired. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u192	Dear fellow MPs, distinguished voters! I'll try to save time for my report, because I'm going to talk about the procedure for dealing with this issue in the Temporary Special Commission, not in fact these projects, because the essence of the projects was reported by the authors. We've come from the fact that each of these projects deserves attention, everyone has rational proposals, everyone has their own preferences. And in this case, I'm going to express my personal opinion that each of these projects can be a basis, an adopted law based on this option, and it can be applied. On one condition, if there were no criminal administration in Ukraine during the elections. So the search for a change in the electoral system is because society, political parties, MPs are looking for ways to break this criminal administration. The 2002 elections demonstrated that a proportional system contributed better than a major one. I've already spoken here once, on the rostrum, that the most democratic, of course, is the majority system, but if the state has democratic principles of government and there are appropriate traditions. Today, in Ukraine, everything is reduced to administrative resources, criminal intervention of executive structures of power, including administrations in all stages of the electoral process, starting with the election of candidates, the formation of a commission, the calculation of votes, the judicial system that serves the same administrative resource and so forth. Therefore, in view of all these circumstances, the various authors and political parties and factions in Parliament have proposed different models of overcoming this administrative resource, but the largest support in the Temporary Special Commission receives a project that has already been tested in Ukraine in part proportional to the past or to the current electoral law. If we've held elections and 225 deputies are elected by this scheme, why not distribute the same scheme throughout the entire MP force, so that we can find more or less acceptable mechanisms to block the criminal administration. This is what the Interim Special Commission proposed by considering all the proposed projects, however, to take the basis and vote in the first reading of the draft, which was submitted by the People's Chamber of Rudzkowski, Bogdan Klukovsky, Ponomarenko, Olujko, and which, by the way, voted four times for the content here in the Supreme Council, he had raised more than 200 votes. At the time, he was confronted by some of the deputies who are now supporting him, and that is, I think, a positive fact. I understand very well that of those who vote today, not everyone shares the absolute approach set out in this law, but they are clearly guided by the principle of rationality and consider the need to change the system of power, the electoral system as the beginning of political reform in Ukraine. I would also like to say that the temporary special commission working on changes to the Constitution understands that the change in electoral law in some way and in a significant way is linked to all political reform. And as a result, we also propose the law of Rudzikowski, Kludkowski, because it enables us to implement the principle laid down in certain provisions of the Constitution on the authorization of the Supreme Council, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the fact that we are only opening the door to political reform today, there is still a great deal of difficult work ahead of us in improving local self - government, other functions of local councils, particularly, and strengthening the independence of the judicial system. This is exactly what is missing in Ukraine today. Here's about what I wanted to report from the Temporary Special Commission, after mentioning only that this project has won most of the 12 votes, it was the majority of the temporary special committee, but I'm counting on that if, by putting a whole series of bills to the vote, there's only one -- this -- I'm counting on it, it's going to raise even more votes than we suggested. on voting on this matter in substance. Here's my information on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u193	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, for saving time. Please, will there be any questions? Let's sign up. Please explain. Ten minutes. Thank you. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u194	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, you've led the commission, so to speak, you've brought some general opinion into the hall. Tell me your opinion, please. Today, the main problem that is being discussed, if everyone takes sides, is how the interests of the Territory, the interests of the individual voters will be taken into account if a classical proportion is adopted without any nuances. How can the electorate reach not only the MP but generally the Supreme Council? And a voter who doesn't live in Kiev, but who lives there in Red Luke, in Luhansk, in High City, I know where else. Thank you. Your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u195	That's a good question. The only thing I'm saying is that as a fourth deputy, who became a national deputy, he was elected three times on a majority basis, and the fourth Constitutional Court had forbidden to use it for me in particular. I receive letters and respond to the problems of voters in all regions of Ukraine, including the Red Light. And today the reference to the fact that a constituency tied to the region better reflects the interests of these voters, is a question of question or discussion. It's very controversial. Because it turns out that he has to use his status for some, for example, special right to take advantage of the budgetary capabilities of the state or the financial simply, or to influence human resources policy or something that the MP has no right to do. Notice, in the 1990s, when we first considered the Law on the Status of Deputies, it was decided to refuse election orders, because the legislature is not an organ of local self-government, it has to work for the state as a whole, not a particular problem of a particular electorate. Although, of course, each member of parliament, both the mayor and the proportion, of course, is obliged and does all he can to do. to improve or satisfy people’s specific proposals. And one more thing. The parties that make up their lists are interested in having their own influence in each region. And so do they. Despite the fact that we have a small faction, only 20 deputies, we have virtually all of us, from each individual area of the MP. And the constituencies work in every area, helping to solve the issues that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u196	Please, Kostinuk. He's behind him, Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u197	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear reporter, many speakers today have talked about the need for political restructuring of society and the parliament, and in many ways agrees with them, because we know many examples when non-party candidates went and boasted that they didn't belong to any party, that they were neither left nor right, not like rollers. That's me, but at the same time, they said that we're not ready to adopt this law today. But it was also said that we were not ready as early as 1998 and in 2002. It's a completely proportional law. But if someone isn't ready, how do you see us waiting for about a year and a half, and then we've already unanimously supported this proportional law? And the second question. Seven million voters are outside the country. How do you think they could be involved in the vote so that every vote could be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u198	Of course, I can't say anything for rollers. But what I'm saying is that unless a proportionate law is passed, the disadvantage of the political structure of society will continue to be felt. And then, if one of the reporters today said that three percent of the population is party members, that's a very high percentage. This is a tradition for many European and not just European nations. Because remember, these same authors didn't say long ago that, as it is, in the Soviet society, 11 percent of the population, and that's not appropriate. It turns out that what's acceptable to Europe, as one movie says: "To us, death or something." It shouldn't be. It's okay. We have quite a society today, and the March 2000 vote has demonstrated this. And you're right about that. Remember, during the Rise, Ukraine and other protests, we talked about the fact that in society power cannot be passed on to society in one hand, but actually belongs to another. Take the Ivano-Frankiv region and tell us why 70, 80 percent voted for our Ukraine, and the authorities don't belong to those parties that go into this block. Why in the Poltava region, the Socialist Party won first place, and no one, not represented in power. People have expressed their position. That's why I think it's right so far, in my opinion, only in the Donetsk region, where the “Regions” have gone well and run the area there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u199	Gabrieluk, get ready, Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u200	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, Alexander Alexandrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u201	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u202	First question. How do you feel about the imperative mandate? Second question. Why are closed and not open lists if you claim the Socialist Party is working in regions, districts and so on? Let us make a specific link between each MP and a specific district. And third. Do you know how you feel about the way you feel about it, and do you know how you today maintain a 100 percent ratio of closed lists of our voters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u203	I'll answer the last question first. As they support the proportion shown by the 2002 elections -- 71 percent of voters voted in favour of the opposition political parties consciously, deliberately voted against the authorities -- you say that right. So I think it's more of a power issue, why it's not being supported by society today. With regard to the imperative mandate, it can be considered in different ways. I'm a proponent of a non-imperative mandate, but in this case, I support the opinion of the majority, obviously for a certain transitional period, as long as it is better to reflect the structure of society and the structure of parliament, we can take this step. And finally, I'd like to go back to the majors again, if you're interested in such arguments, because I didn't want to use them, so when you talk about the independent position of the Mayor, why don't you look at how many times in principle majors in the Supreme Council have voted in the way that the President's Administration needs. And I think you're going to find the answer to whose interests today, basically, you're not affected by that, Majority in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u204	Please, Nosenko, follow Musiak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u205	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I support, of course, the proposal of the Temporary Special Commission on the Rudzikowski, Klukowski, Olujka and Ponomarenko bill. But do you think that the current regime will not find any means of use and proportionate electoral law in its interests?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u206	I think today's regime is capable of anything, including forging elections even on a proportional basis. No one doubts that he has put his hands together, and now he only expects democracy to be in the state. But I didn't happen to mention that this is just the first step towards political reform. We have to break the criminal administration by our political reform, we have to break the system of power that is based on a circular message, corruption and other things. So one of the pieces of this fight for change is proportional law. Again, here are examples of Italy, other countries, I studied electoral law, other countries' legislation. In Italy, from time to time, the system shifts from major to proportional and vice versa, also pursuing one goal of overcoming administrative resources. Therefore, the rules of electoral law should not become the rules of the Constitution; they should be the rules of the law. And given the specific situation and the opportunity to satisfy the political sentiments of the electorate, we should continue to follow up, and I mean Parliament should monitor the situation in society and change electoral legislation from time to time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u207	Please, Musiak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u208	Please give my colleague Master's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u209	The Master's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u210	Vladimir Mystrishyn, District 14, Major General, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine". Alexandre Alexandrovich, you are a great high-level politician. Accordingly, you know, politicians of this level make big achievements, and big mistakes do happen. And of course it gives you, I personally pay you a great deal of respect for you admitting these mistakes and talking about them. I think that what you are today is both the head of the commission, and the person whose fairway goes in principle all political reform, including, should report to himself what happens when we make a mistake again and reject these proportional choices completely back? I would like to examine some of my laws in view of such a systemic, perhaps error.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u211	Before I answer your questions, I want to say this. Everything rational that is in all draft laws on the organization of the electoral process should be used in the final text of the electoral law. And with regard to mistakes, I mean, there's always a risk. But an even greater risk is leaving things the way they are today. We've already seen what that leads to. And you can't leave it the way it is. You can't, knowing that there's no guarantee of success here. But this is still the path that society and the whole government system need today. It was not by chance that the President himself admitted that Ukraine’s system of power was a barrier to Ukraine’s development. And it starts to grow, this system of choices, out of the ability or inability of all power to put society under control. What we offer draws us closer to that goal. Although there are no ideal schemes, there is no such thing as ideal schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u212	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. For the record, I'd just like to remind myself of what Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich said about not having to write into the Constitution. In the Constitution, and this system is not written down, it is only prescribed in the Final Positions that we will hold such elections in 2006. And if it goes any further, life will show. I mean, this norm is unconstitutional about constitutional elections. That's where we're talking about 2006. Dear colleagues! The temporary special commission had a special thought. You and I have voted to give a special thought to giving a word for the interview for three minutes and five minutes to answer the question. As I was told, the Hare Ivan Aleksandrovich is to speak. Please. About the breakup. Dear colleagues! On Friday we work with you until 2 p.m. You and I today have decided to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of Ukraine's draft laws on the election of Ukraine's national deputies. There will be no breaks, we will work until the issue is resolved. 253 people's deputies. In accordance with the Rules. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u213	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The electoral system in our condition is perhaps the most important element of political reform. Therefore, choosing a particular model of the electoral system is an extremely important and responsible matter. Does the Supreme Council demonstrate such responsibility? No, of course not. Most of them, together with the communists, continue to follow the path they initiated on December 24, last year, which is a way of ignoring the current Constitution, the legislation, all parliamentary procedures. I have to say that everything that is going on around the bill of election of the people's deputies today is nothing more than the divorce of the ruling regime in the person of the Banking Political Power of Parliament in different corners, On the one hand, all the decisions taken by the Supreme Council in relation to the bill on the election of national MPs are illegal, all of them have been taken with gross violation of the Constitution, the law in force and parliamentary procedures. All of this has been done to exclude the right democratic opposition forces from the process, because we cannot support ignoring the Constitution, the withdrawal of power, the oligarchs for the constitutional field. We know that by unrighteous means you will never provide for righteous works, nor will you provide justice. May I remind you, honourable national deputies, that on March 3rd, by the efforts of the majority and the left factions, an illegal decision was taken that effectively eliminates at least two of the Supreme Council's constitutional bodies, this is the Committee on State Building and Legal Policy from the widest range of issues. Yesterday, a temporary special commission worked in violation of the Constitution, all the laws of the Supreme Council. A temporary special commission is a printing press to make proposals in an illegal decision room. The second means of distributing political powers is the work of managing majors from the majority. What do we see here? One humiliation, another bending over their knees is all that we've been through here before. I ask you, honourable national deputies, could such illegal, unjust acts give birth to a normal law? Is such a work likely to give birth to something of the road? No, it's not. So we have to say, enough semi-factories, enough laws that don't take account of Ukraine's national interests. I'm a proponent of a proportional system. But I know that you have arranged for each other to lower the barrier by up to four percent. This means that there will be 13 or 15 parties next time in this Parliament. There will be no majority, there will be no order here. And you know it. So, honourable Members, my position is this: we're going to put this process back on track, we're going to put bills on committees that are constitutional, and so that each of you can make amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u214	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up for the question. Please explain. Five minutes. Rahanski, behind him Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u215	Dear John Alexanderovich, I have a question for you. You said you were a proponent of a proportional system. But please tell me, will the bill that Rudzikowski proposed not take away entire layers of society that are possible with regard to taking part in the election? It is religious, religious, civil servants, law - enforcement officials, and others. That's the first question. And then the second question. Please state the 25 changes Mr. Rudzikowski made to the bill today. This is true or not true during the consideration of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u216	First. There is no bill among these bills that can be adopted in general. None. They all need to be worked out. That's why this bill needs to be worked out. But, honourable national deputies, what are we working for if you break up for next week, and on Tuesday, Frost and Gabriels are gathering us to work. On what, dear friends? That's why I'm saying that excluding committees is not the way to deal with it, it's the contradiction of bad, bad laws. As far as the rights are concerned. Yes, they've made these changes, they can be accepted by these changes in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u217	Please, Klukkowski. He's got Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u218	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear author of a special thought! Be kind, confirm what was said yesterday at the meeting of the Temporary Constitutional Commission. The fact is that yesterday's session of the Provisional Constitutional Commission was in violation of article 2.1.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which expressly prohibits the holding of meetings of various bodies of committees and committees when voting on decisions in the plenary. Please tell me, how did the interim Constitutional Commission react to the majority of its composition on the appeal, including the first deputy chairman of the committee on the issue of the Rules of our colleague Gabrieluk?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u219	I confirm that yesterday a temporary special commission was working in an illegal manner. First. The decision you made on March 3 is illegal because it was not published. Yesterday, some lawyers agreed that this decision, they say, is sort of an orderly document, and now we've given you 20 members of the temporary special committee, and we've already published it. And what you didn't have on your hands is that it wasn't loud to the public, they ignored it. And the second. Indeed, Mr. Gabrieluk said that according to paragraph 2.1.1., a temporary commission could not work when plenary meetings were held and especially when they were being prepared. When personal decisions are made. We made personal decisions here, and we worked there. And about my special thought. Dear National Deputies! Return to December 24th. There was my special point on page 12, and what? And what I wrote was justified. That's why you were illegally melting what I was telling you on February 3rd. Listen to me today, too, so that you do not correct illegal decisions again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u220	Singer. After him, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u221	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u222	Please, it's Frost's microphone. The flowers turned off the microphone. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u223	Dear John Alexander, I have a line and a question. A replica because you mentioned my last name. I mean, we're going to go with you to the Chevchenk Memorial, so we're going to move the meeting to the 10th. I know it's the 10th. At ten o'clock we will gather and consider not the election law to the Supreme Council, but the election law to the local authorities, as planned, the President's Election Act and the amendment law to the Constitution under Project 3207 in the area of local self-government. First question. And the second. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, is there a chance now to vote on the 4% barrier, please do the job, and are you ready to do this job to get your faction, your BUT and everyone else to vote for 4%? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u224	I'll start with another one. There's a chance to vote 4 percent today. But you know that on the Temporary Special Commission yesterday, Rudzkowski stated that your position as Communists is to lower the barrier and be ready for up to three percent. So this was officially declared yesterday on the Temporary Special Commission. This was stated by Simonenck for journalists a month ago. Therefore, dear friends, we are not suicides, we are well aware that the bill is being passed to lower the barrier of passage. I don't want this Supreme Council to have political structure, I want it to be made by poor people, I'm sorry for that word. That's the first one. The other one. Our position is consistent. Dear friends, we understand very well how these bills are being used today to buy left-wing parties to support changes to the Constitution. And the changes to the Constitution will ensure that the Mafia will rule forever. We are opposed to such mechanisms being used to establish a new political system. And the last. We're consistent. We say, "You want to change the management system, please go to the people and the people will tell you." And relative to the 9th, there was an announcement by the Chief that the Temporary Special Commission was meeting on the 9th at 10 a.m. But, Alexandre Alexandrovich, we're going to repeat the 9th number just like we did yesterday. We're going to get the 9th 8th or 5th drafts for the election of others, we're going to be completely unprepared. Because that's what we need to know what number to prepare for, and we're going to print all these decisions again. I don't want these decisions to be made without realizing what we're doing. I understand that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko left us his.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u225	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Turn off the microphone. Ivan Alexanderovich. On the chairman’s right at the request of the temporary special commission’s co-chairs, I announce that on March 9, the meeting of the TSC will take place on March 10 at the third floor of the Supreme Council. We've already taken the time. Excuse me, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Well, well, Masenko was announced. Masenko, please. Only, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, answer in a concise manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u226	Thank you. I ask Ivan Alexanderovich a question in friendship. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, first of all, that the 3% barrier is a compromise. And let's make every effort to do four or maybe even five percent of the barrier, if that's what you want. And the question is essentially. You said that the left factions are killing us over our knees right now, and please tell me, what did they overtake you in 2000 when you went to this house and voted like you knew? You know your colleague said yesterday who made him vote and who signed up for the Earth Code. I'm not gonna call it a last name. It was said to you, you heard. Now tell me more. Asadchev says that this bill we are proposing is a stone age. The key to this stone project. So, please tell me, which age are you all from? But ye are gathered together at one age, that ye may all be one. That's one.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u227	I'll start with the last question. How old we are. We are from Tripoli, which was in Ukraine 7,000 years ago, which gave mankind agriculture that gave mankind copper. That's what we're from. And we arrived in the 21st century with a proud head. Now we have thoughts. We have democracy in our faction, and we express our thoughts freely. If you have unity, your unity has led to the collapse of a great state and. Before the collapse of your faction. Now let's move on. A three - percent barrier. Dear friends! Let's face it: yesterday, when we put a bill to the vote, we should take it as a basis, and there should have been 11 by 11, just Mr. Hapocha escaped to use the vote against the majority law, then Schufric said: "Dear friends, well we agreed with you that we would vote in favour of this bill with a reduction in the threshold of three percent. [[to this majority and to the left factions]] So do you think we don't understand that you've already agreed? You've already traded. We've already got what we need. And we're gonna cover all this stuff? Are we going to cover up this whole lie? [[Applause]] Dear friends, I didn't go into politics to blame my soul. I believe that politics can be made with clean hands. And relative to the year 2000. This is a very bad argument for you, respectable communists, and for everyone else who committed the crime in 2000, I admit it. This can't be an argument for you if you want democracy. This can't be an argument for you if you want a good life for our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u228	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u229	Live by the law! Be Just! And then people will be fine and you will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u230	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Have a seat. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, don't be alarmed! I'm asking you not to name your last name, I'm asking you not to name your last name, because now there are lines. Please, Simonenko, then a piece of gossip in a minute. They were called names. I'm asking you not to name your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u231	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to say that since the Tripoli era, when they have been in the Supreme Council for some time, I appreciate Ivan Alexandrovich's statement as an apology to the electorate, an apology to all of us for having done 12 years in parliament when he destroyed the great Power. [[Applause]] Second. I would like to inform the “ours” once again that it is you who have signed memoranda of political constitutional reform. Remind you that you signed a memorandum with us on the need to adopt a law on a proportionate basis. Today you're ruining the agreements we've had and as our "ours" you've always acted inconsistently. Therefore, I would like to ask that I continue to express my point of view, and I will respect it, but not to engage in a word of error, which in this case today shows only one thing that can never be said to you about serious things, and more about the future of the Power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u232	Please, Pocket is a replica, a minute behind it is Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, I believe that making a deal is a normal, civilized relationship between normal people. And that's why when I mean that we're negotiating, we have all the prerequisites that we have to go to. But such a great politician as the Hare, who had nothing sacred in life, was running not only from political structures but also between government and parliament to do something. I know it's his last loop on his neck, and he sees the Rabbit running away. So it's his tragedy, I feel for him, nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, calm down. I'm about to give you a word. I'll remind you, dear colleagues, they exchange lines once. The rabbit called Simonek, the Haupochka, they answered him, they answered you. Masenko called Klukkowski, Klukkowski will do the replica. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u235	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I understand that Pussy is a little hook, so it's okay. But I would like to point out to my beloved colleague Masenka that the bill may be different, but from a stone age, there can only be the collective ideology he is practicing today. And so, for God's sake, this is your problem, which is to think of as stone, as gold, as bronze. I think you'll have enough gold today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u236	We're done with the lines, dear colleagues. We still have a decree of inadmissibility. If you've been insulted, go to court. Ivan Aleksandrovich tells me quite correctly, the right observation of the Rabbit to the Chairman about what I should have done under the Rules. To do so, and I'm making this remark to Hapochka, who insulted the Hare's national deputy in his speech. We have a draft decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have a draft decree number 4285-4p on inadmissibility. You and I, in voting for the order of our work, have decided that we will give the authors of this decree five minutes to speak. Who's from this group? I remind you, this is Gabrieluk, Bitchkov and Kozachenko. Which one of them will perform? I'll remind you again, there's a draft decree by the three national deputies on inadmissibility. The authors are Gabrieluk, Bitchkov, I see Kozachenko. Please, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u237	I'll tell you very briefly, I wasn't getting ready for the speech. I'm surprised at just one thing, my fellow countrymen -- and the haste with which the law that is so important to our society, which is really the law on the election of national MPs, is being extended through this Parliament. I'm going to say what most of my colleagues in this room share: it's very much like a public bribe. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues! No, we voted only to give the authors five minutes to report, for this is a decree of inadmissibility. Dear colleagues, we're with you. No questions asked. You and I, by voting on the order of today's debate, have decided that after the speeches, the reports, the reports, especially the opinion, we will take two hours to discuss the draft decision on the non-admissibility of the speech. That's how we voted with you. But in doing so, I remind all of you, be careful, article 3.3. 6 Rules. The rule states that each of the MPs and groups has a guaranteed right to speak to one of their own representatives. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to give the floor first to representatives of each faction, and after we've exhausted the factions, they're going to come after the records. I don't rule out refusing to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please give the word to Klukkowski, the faction of "Our Ukraine." Prepare Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u239	Yuri Klukkowski, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues. Today’s discussion of draft laws on the election of Ukrainian national deputies is not the first in this composition of the Supreme Council. I've had the opportunity to say that the law has two different elements in terms of quantity, but the same weight is the electoral system and the regulation of procedures. But as always the second is in second place, and the main focus today is on the electoral system. Bill 4285-4, co-author, I would even say, the author of which I am, because it was developed by the Electoral Law Institute, which I have the honour to lead, and those problems that arise with Mikola Rudzkowski only motivate me to ask here from the podium the question of plagiarism about the authors of the bill. It is this bill that uses the simplest electoral system in our terms. That system that's already been run twice in half of the Supreme Council's composition, the election of half of the Supreme Council, which is common to our electorate. It has its advantages, it has its drawbacks. At the same time, I would like to emphasize that a very interesting electoral system is proposed in Bill 4285-2, presented by a faction of regions with advantages both in the general list and in the regional representation. And that's why I think it's worth the attention. True, I would like to pay attention to those who are trying to lower the barrier from 4 percent to 3, and who claim that 3, 4 percent or 5 percent is no different, but I want to say that it’s strange to hear from a big entrepreneur who I hope realizes that in a bank interest of 3, 4 percent and 5 percent is a huge difference! And does he really think that in the political process, this percentage is stupid? It's a little weird. And so again, I would like to point out that today there is no discussion about the essence of the electoral bill, as he was trying to draw here the co-chair of the Temporary Special Commission, which usurped the right to consider this project, Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz. Today it is really about the fact that the bill on the election of Ukrainian national deputies has become a means of political corruption for some factions in the Supreme Council for supporting the constitutional review and in fact a constitutional coup. And so what I'm saying is, in fact, all the conversations today don't really matter. Indeed, John the Rabbit told the truth that all the payments have been made and all the ridges have been broken, and everyone who has spoken here and has broken down about the right to vote for a deputy from the county will actually be broken and voted as not today, so in two weeks when the bill will be considered definitively, and therefore I am very sorry that such an important problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u240	Please, from the Communist faction, National Deputy Puzakov, from the "Regions of Ukraine" - Masters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u241	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. It is the question of the transition to purely proportional elections that is the heart of the polytreform. Of course, it's not that simple. But in the Ukrainian Parliament, the fate of electoral laws has never been easy. And when it comes to a document that will determine the political future of the entire country, whatever electoral system is not discussed, the temperature of the discussion of the proposed bills always reaches the point of boiling. At the same time, fellow Majorists, it is not necessary to take such a painful view of the change in the electoral system, for life itself has placed points above "and". And you must take a coordinated position in an honest, orderly and just manner. Let's be honest with you, today the majors are entrenched behind a specific district, which includes five or six areas. But frankly, today, since the election, voters have not seen or heard many of their deputies not only in the district but also in the walls of the Supreme Council. For example, when meeting with the voters in the region of Kirovograd, the voters asked their deputy to be handed over, but I will not specifically call his name so that he would not use a minute to say that they wanted to see or hear his mayor because he had promised very much, but did nothing in accordance with his electoral programme to protect and preserve the metal giant of the Mountain Enrichment. And how many sweet promises he has left in the village of Vasilyevka of the same area. And it's not a single case. Is that what you call a major in the county? This confirms once again that the majority system has survived. That's not going to happen with a purely proportional scheme. And by withdrawing from the letters that come from the public debate on the draft political reform, people are only on the side of a proportional electoral system. And in letters they ask for a maximum of four per cent barrier for each party, or maybe five per cent. And the main thing is looking at the other one. That we will now be able to oppose the slogan of holding honest, transparent and open elections, and not only am I sure that once again there will be tremendous administrative pressure, driven by the Bank's. Once again, we will all witness the nonchungry execution of the law on election under the current criminal conditions. corrupt power. Many of his numerous and insolent violations in the principle of "Do everything and you'll have nothing to do with it," and also the black PR in the media and in the campaign campaign, blackmail, threats, physical violence, voter bribery, and not just them. Finally, it's a fake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u242	Thank you. From the faction of "Ukraine" Masterskin. Prepare Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u243	Vladimir Masterskin, faction of "Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention today to the bill proposed by the faction of Ukraine. I think it's different from the palette we see today. We see the whole offer of going back to the proportional system, to the majority system, that's like the end point. And the other end point is a completely proportional system. I think today our law is different from other laws that we're not talking about a pyramid, we're talking about a platform. We're not talking about that democratic centralism, but we're talking about having a leader today. Not necessarily looking into his eyes, but working in the district, and then you'll need a party, and then it'll be a real democracy in the same party, and a real democracy in this room. And let's not forget that behind our vote, behind our vote is the state in its perspective of development. [[And this is my proposal, including as the author of the bill.]] I think today the main thing that I would like to say in support of our bill is that it's essentially not just democratic, but, in our view, the perspective is that we're not going to go back to that Tripoli in a good sense, but to go back and see our European choice. And for the rest of us, I would like to say that when we propose our law, there are certain details when we do. They came to us all the time and talked about the point of how we could conduct our deputies in the area. So 27 areas are divided into regions. And if there are eight or twelve major MPs in each area today, that's what the number of deputies, i.e. candidates for the party lists, is going to be in each region. After these elections have passed, the votes of each MP, who is in a copy of the party as a whole, will lead him to the top of the list. And we're going to have every region depending on how much they voted for, for that party. And another very important question. If there's only one and a half deputies, let's say, one and a half mandates. This does not mean that there will be inadequacies that are purely mathematical. The point is that these voices automatically come from one side of the party, on the other side, that leads to what even on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u244	Thank you. Please, from BUT Matthew instead of Philenko. Get ready for Shufrych.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u245	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I have little faith in the fact that we have enough intelligence to act in accordance with the national interest in this House. And so, to a greater extent, I present my speech to radio and television audiences. There are two problems that we are destined to solve as soon as possible in Ukraine. What are these two problems? Problem one. This is the removal of thieves from power. And problem number two. This is a change of power that would never allow thieves to come to power again. What is the order of the solution? Obviously, if we don't decide the first one, we'll never decide the second, we'll never solve democracy in the first place. Ukraine. Because yesterday Alexander Alexander Moroz, speaking on board, said that any system could strengthen democracy or destroy it. And whoever's looking for a way out of the system today without doing the first is by removing thieves from power, nothing in Ukraine decides. They're going to do with the system that you're proposing today, what they're doing with the present one, breaking both the Constitution and the law. Hence the explanation of why the vast majority of the proboscis are so fierce, hating the proportional law, there is little that is willing to vote for it, even today running around the hall and aggrieves all of us to vote. Why did they never work on Fridays, suddenly sitting like nails in Parliament? Because they have such a team, not Ukraine, but the thief regime. That's what this is all about. How do they prepare for this? They're going to the presidential election. If the presidential election is won, they'll cancel the December 23-24 vote as unconstitutional and leave the regime. But that's what they're afraid they won't be able to do. That's why we need a spare. What's the backup? We need to change the Constitution. And make it a way to transfer the Bush regime from Bank to Gruszewski. And leave everything as it is. That's why. To do that, it takes 300 votes. We need to buy communists and socialists. What can I get for you? There's an election bill on the hook. And the election law is nothing more than a bait on that hook. So we have to do the main thing first. And if we have guarantees today that we have been introducing a constitutional law since 2006, it needs to be supported. If not, we must vote against it. Let us unite in the name of removing the regime from power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u246	Thank you. Social Democrats say no. That's why I'm giving the word of "Trouble Ukraine" to Onichuku. Get ready for Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u247	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear voters! Because today it's actually about the law not for the MPs, but it's about the law for the citizens, because it's about the law that will ensure that the electorate's will is realized. Generally speaking, honourable deputies, I would like to compare the electoral law and the electoral system with that which unites the people, who under the Constitution are the exclusive source of power and authority to which this power flows. And here's the bottom line for at least two important functions. The first function, it has to be transparent to ensure that the will of the electorate is not deformed both in the election process and in the exercise of power when it acts on behalf of the people. I would like to say that, to a large extent, the bills that have been discussed today, they solve the problems, all the bills, because they are composed and written by the people's deputies, taking into account the four-step, you can say, the experience of the formation of the Ukrainian Parliament and the electoral system. Just to say that the Assadchev Bill, which was also mentioned today, in part of the electoral technology itself, has shown that it is a major violation and that it solves the problem in a better way. The second question. I would like to point out that when we talk about electoral law, we should not forget how it is embedded in the political system of the country. After voting for the fact that we want to see a parliamentary republic or a parliamentary-presidential republic, where the centre of power will be located in Parliament, we must at the same time realise that, by applying the electoral law and the electoral system, we must form a parliament on a political basis to represent the political forces that will then rule the country on behalf of the people. And when we talk about an electoral law, we should properly analyse whether it provides for the formation of a parliament on a political basis. It can be said that there are many bills that combine in their system and proportional systems, and the top-level task is decided, however, by less and more successful. But the main thing is that if we take a step towards the parliamentary republic, we have to realize that today's vote is going to be a step towards the compromise that should take place. I want to point out that the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, including Yuri Joffe and Dashutin, had their own bill. By the way, he was predicting a mixed system, essentially election, and we took it down. They were taken in order to bring Parliament together around some established decision. We are sure of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u248	Thank you. From the Socialist Party, the word is given to the Viennese. Prepare from the Shevchuk NDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u249	Dear National Deputies! There is no problem for the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine that the law is to vote for. For 8 years, we have stood up for the idea of proportional electoral law. Once again, eight years. More than a dozen times he passed through the Supreme Council and even obtained most of the votes in the Supreme Council, but it was the President's veto. Just recently, we and the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" bloc and the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, even here, blocked the rostrum so that the Supreme Council could put it in the agenda and vote for it. And today I'd like to address these two factions first. The factions of our Ukraine and the block of Julia Timoshenko. It is said to me that our colleagues from the opposition have gone very far and have gone into fornication, because it is completely illogical: two months ago we were pursuing this same law, the author of which is our colleagues, who have been working on our behalf, today with such anger and with such inspiration you are criticizing and blocking, in fact, the adoption of this law. I don't think any of the arguments that you're making today can be accepted because the proportional law has to be passed in Ukraine today, because we have only two choices of the state: either the political structure of the state, or the clan-oligaric. And all your words speak of one thing, and the actions speak of another. So once again, I'm addressing colleagues from "Our Ukraine," publicly speaking, I've been silent about these days, I've been silent, and now I'm speaking publicly, Ivan Alexanderovich, and also to you: get out of this fornication, let's solve one question, and then we'll solve other questions if you want to solve them. And one more thing, I'm going to the majors. Dear colleagues, we too must be sincere. Your argument that the mayors seem to take into account the position of the regions is completely incorrect, because most of your majors don't live or live in their constituency. Today 90 percent of seniors do not live in the territory of their constituency. Therefore, it is also not necessary to lead people into fornication. So there must be a collective vote and there must be 400 votes in favour of a proportional law. I call you all to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u250	Thank you. Please prepare Soboljev from the NDP - Shevchuk. The factions are all executed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, the position of the drafters is understandable. The national MPs elected in the districts stand for the majority system chosen on the state-wide multi-mandatory list, making it difficult for the proportional election system. This is in line with their interests and their desire to work in the parliament of the next, perhaps a few subsequent, cadences. But, dear fellows, believe me, there is a double mistake here, first of all, party MPs can't be sure that the gatherings of their parties, and even more of the gatherings of party blocks are re-enlisting them, often it's just an illusion. And the majors, especially those elected for the first time, probably don't know about the so-called "fourth year" syndrome, when any mistake or even a temporary entourage during the fourth year of the delegation leads to the loss of all the positives of the previous three years of their work. Thus, not the interests of today’s parliamentarians should be central to the election of the scheme, but the interests of the citizens of Ukraine, the interests of our State in the 21st century. And they are primarily responsible for ensuring fair and fair subsequent elections, correcting this imperfect system of the model of today's authority, correcting distortions in the active powers of branches of power. And finally, in the further political structure of our society. The NDP faction held a broad discussion and discussion, including with members of the boards of different levels, members of the NDP. And I'm going to say right now that this discussion isn't over yet, and we appreciate the opinion of the district deputies. But most of our colleagues are leaning towards the programming principles of the People's Democratic Party and will support a proportional election system with maximum regional constituency and reporting for their work. As an example, I want to give an example of my own area to Volina. I'll tell you what I'm being asked right now, and I'm reporting to the NDP district organization before the Political Campaign for work in this area, for the funds involved in the development of the regions, for other issues. And I'd love to give you examples today of my colleagues, of other factions, e.g. Eugene Kirilczuk of BUT, Catherine Vaschuk of the Agrarian Party, Stanislav Phydenka of the Company and Chairman, Adam Martinyuk, who are not selected in the area, but are constantly worried, coming, contributing to the construction of hospitals and clean-up facilities on their native Motherland. Therefore, the NDP faction will vote by a majority in favour of Bill 4285-4, one of the co-authors is a member of our Vitaly Oluiko faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u252	Please, Sobolev. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, I am surprised by those who are involved in the discussion of the Electoral Law, either on a proportional basis or on a mixed basis. Everyone knows that it is not the Electoral Law that is being discussed. Now we're talking about the rate of that political bribe that's about to be given to two factions of Parliament for voting under the Elections Act. So I would like to dedicate my speech to not discussing the Electoral Law, because it is not today’s topic. The topic today is whether the Kuchma mode is being preserved. And whose hands it's kept, it's this regime. In the event that a law on elections on a proportional basis is voted today, a political reform will be voted for a month, allowing Kuchma, or his offspring, to remain in power by changing the office of the name, not, in fact, the office of the President as Prime Minister. That is the essence of all the votes that are now taking place. Second, Mr. Winsky, you're talking about some kind of fornication. Excuse me, the Supreme Council has now been implicated in fornication, when the Mayors are promised, "Then vote for this damn proportional law! It'll be a while. We'll call it off. " And there's no guarantee. You and the Communists are promised, and by the way, we've been offered this. Let's vote for a proportional system. It will be preserved, and then we will see when there will be a second vote on constitutional reform, and we will put it into effect since 2006. This is fornication. When each faction tells the other. And the point is this. If changes to the Constitution are introduced four months after the vote, the Kuchma regime remains for at least two years. What honest and transparent choices are you talking about? Read the password you wrote. And in what free press will you hold these elections?Oh, my God! Look at the results of the election in the Russian Federation: 37 percent of the party lists a party that holds all the television channels, all the radio, all the administrative resources! What choices are you talking about? Is it not clear, though, that the question is not in the election system? You can run fair elections and majors. You can also make proportional honest choices. Only they can be kept under one condition when the Kuchma regime does not exist. Now for the second question. I understand what everyone is afraid that the Kuchma regime will not be replaced by another one with a different name. And here let's work together! We're making changes to the Constitution. I'm for them. But since 2006. And then we take down all the questions. And that's the answer to a question about proportional law. That is why I urge those who understand and do not want to take political bribes today do not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u254	Please, Karmazin. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u255	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dearly Deserving Ukrainian People! You're offered five projects today. There they are. Here's the amount you want to see. Today, 15 amendments are made together with one of the authors - 25, more faithfully, the amendments - Rudzikowski, which does not meet the Rules at all. Because you can now and other authors without agreement, it's a new actual project, actually a new project, we're not being printed, we're not being distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies. I want to ask you, and I want our voters to know. What's your hurry? What, 2006 on the threshold? No, it's not. What, did you settle the budget issue? No, it's not. You don't want to make changes to the budget law, where you've stopped and violated 32 social laws. You don't want to return the $7 billion that are now out of this law on budget to the shadow economy under election. You don't want to go back to the 4001 law that the President vetoed, where the price of medicine is higher, for the period, for the Ukrainian book, for the construction of housing, where the price of medicine is higher, where the income tax on agrarians is higher. You don't want to make these changes. And you're talking today about what's convenient for you personally. I absolutely agree with the fact that, unlike a political bribe to two factions -- Communists and socialists -- it is impossible to say what is accepted. They were talking about fornication. But the word "political prostitutes" isn't from our lexicon. Political prostitutes are the ones who did what they did. And you say today, when it's good, in Odessa they say, "That's good." And I ask you, Your Honor, are eliminating this Constitution, which obliges the committees to reach their conclusion, part two of article 89. And you give eleven laws, eleven, I emphasize, to buy back a temporary commission without committees in an anti-constitutional way and you're doing it all. That's terrible. I'm against such behavior and against such an approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u256	Thank you. The word has the Hare Ivan Aleksandrovich, to prepare for Yavorowski. He signed up for the performance, and he spoke with a separate mind at first. Now he's taking part in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u257	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! As you can see from the discussion, we have already clearly realized that today it is not a question of choosing any electoral system, but today the question is how to use the Electoral Law to reform in a way that does not change in this country, and everything is getting worse and worse. Today, the bill has become, as it were, a major commodity. And when we talk about who is going astray today, we can get a very simple answer. Here one of the speakers said to me that, dear friends, let's solve one problem with you and then we'll solve another problem. That means in the right language, let's decide one thing with you, and with them we'll decide the other. I mean, with the majority or with the Bank. Can we go on that road or not? We can't go that way. So, honourable Members, let's speak frankly. In fact, we did not discuss any draft legislation today, except for reporters, and we should discuss the barrier to passage there. And we need to talk about what the system of non-recognition guarantees is there. And you will see that everything remains as it is today. Three days before the election, you won't be able to protest today's decision in the Supreme Council and pursue your democracy, play these games. So, dear friends, I don't want to play these games, I know the price of Ukrainian statehood, I've fought for it my whole life. And today, at the 13th year of independence, to destroy the constitutional foundations of our power and our statehood, I will not take part in this process, and I urge you not to do so. So let's go back to my proposal again, let's fast this process in a legitimate way. We have committees, committees have representatives of different factions, there are regulations, there is an opportunity for you to amend. These changes will probably be a thousand or maybe two thousand. They should all be discussed, accepted, and made a normal bill. If we go to Bank's today alone, know that tomorrow you're not staying in this room, you're just going to be replaced as a material that nobody needs, because you're going against your own conscience, not going after national interests. So, dear friends, I urge you once again today to rise above my personal interests. Today is the question of our future. And I answer Peter Simone, who called us these, "ours." Peter Mikolaiovich, if you provoke us like this, I'm going to say that you, the leaders of the Communist Party, are the KPSS people, that you provoke us to corrupt the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u259	We don't want to touch privates, and you don't want to provoke us to do that. It's not worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u260	Please, Yavorowski, our Ukraine faction. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u261	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block Dear voters! I refer primarily to voters, because I imagine those who listen to us what they think right now. Some of them were firm against the proportional law yesterday, and today they're putting this law in the mouth like a frog to the French. Those who were under proportionate law yesterday are now taking action against him. I can imagine what these poor people are thinking today. Is there anything that you, the honourable voters, can try to explain? A prominent German, philosopher, and writer Bertold Brecht put it this way: If the people do not like the authorities, the authorities must dissolve this nation and choose another. Now, I have the impression that right now our Kutsamian authorities are doing this, how to re-elect the people. That is why we are with you today and are considering the law on elections. I want to ask two questions and answer them. First question. Is it possible today in this room, in this state of ours, that we can adopt a normal law, because we have as many as five Poles in color and choice, choose what you want. These five laws, however we adopt them here, can be dumped by the whole world, and they would all be normal. But each of these laws would be normal and just in a normal state, in a normal democratic state. Can we accept such a law today? Yeah, it's impossible. I'm a purely proportional proponent, but I understand perfectly what will be done with this law. We are today, my esteemed colleagues, honourable voters. We've come to a unique practice today, to a unique technology, when an oligarch businessman sends a bag of money into the area, he doesn't need to go there, and he gets a bag of prepared ballots. That's our electoral system today, if that's what it's about. The second question is, why are we looking at this bill right now? And people are good, in the nose of the presidential election, the election of the leader of the nation. Why we are fighting today, but yesterday we were firm against this law. Why are we getting high today when we should be looking at the President's Election Act today or two, not the MPs. That's why it's all bullshit. Dear colleagues, most of you, think of yourself, by lunchtime you're a major, after lunch you're against a major. I've only won major districts four times, and I love major elections, but I'm convinced that for Ukraine to save Ukraine today only needs a proportional system, but today it's not enough to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u262	Thank you. Please, Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u263	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I am also a member of those who have advocated all their political conscious life as a proportional law, as a remedy not the lawlessness that authorities have done in the last 12 years. But I also belong to those who are not the kind of animal that is hypnotized by a widow and crawls right into his mouth. Because today, this law is the hook and hypnotist that forces left forces to climb into the mouth of a widow. Absolutely. Why is it today that the majority representing authority wants to vote in favour of this proportional law? Does that not alert you? Why this power, which has been perpetrating violence for many years, has slaughtered the parties, killed their leaders, and violence continues to take place today. Does that not remind you that she will do the same thing tomorrow, regardless of the adoption of this proportional law? So today the question is not what kind of bill we're going to adopt, because they all have the ground to accept them. In one way or another, the law reflects certain positions. They deserve a serious discussion, as do their authors. But that's not the point. The question is, who will continue to rule the government? And if this depends on Banking’s change to Gruszewski, will there be a proportional law? It won't. So I turn to the left and I treat you with deep respect, don't support it, because it's the gate to hell. And whoever calls us "ours," with his own hands and his own words paves the way for the consolidation of fascism in Ukraine. Because these people with criminal consciousness are people of fascist worldview, for them the essence of man, human life means nothing. And no matter what the law will be, they will continue to make violence against the Ukrainian people, to think only for their own wealth and for their own personal interest. It is not the time for this law to be passed today. Today we have to postpone and approach it after the presidential election or at some better times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u264	Thank you. The word Stretovich, "Our Ukraine", has to prepare for the cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u265	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Vladimir Stretovic, head of the Christian-Democratic Union Party. Clearly, as the leader of the political party, I have to speak out for the introduction of a proportional system. To my profound conviction, the very proportional system allows for the removal of a better part of the political list of the best representatives for the exercise of authority. And that's perfectly logical, because they should be the bearers of power, they should be honest, they should be incorruptible, they should be intellectuals, they should be wise, they should be statesmen, not politicians, because they should be able to see a few years ahead. And this will allow us to provide a party, a political bloc for the next election, because this part should be miserable all the time under criticism of the opposition. We do not yet have a normal state: opposition, the majority, and those exercising power. My Polish colleagues, when they lost the last election and went against me, they say, "Volodymiere, you don't understand how well we are now, but we don't answer for anything, we just criticize, criticize and criticize. We're not responsible for what's going on." But for some reason, everyone wants to continue their authority. I have another question: Why is it so hot, why are we in such a hurry to get in our backs? Selling Ukraine finally? From the following year, from January 1st to sell the land? So as head of the Committee on Organized Crime and Corruption, I want to say, listen carefully, you haven't heard this before, and I know that in the two New York banks there are $1 billion worth of cash spent to buy Ukrainian lands and to preserve the status quo. And this authority has done so today. Comrades of the Bushmen! Fellow pilgrims, please have patience to listen to. Ukraine - Stretovich is on the scene. Please, listen, please. The people know who the bushmen are or the Communists who went out with Kuchma, they're now called the bushmen. They want to sit in Parliament and eat well. Now they're called bushmans. So I ask you, please think that every law as an element of the legal system must be adopted on time, no later than before. And when proportional choices are used as a coin of exchange today, you know you're going to lie to the whole world, and you're not going to come back. Ukraine is one of us. And I ask you very much, those who sit on the left, love Ukraine in themselves, not in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u266	The word Zvaric, "Our Ukraine", has to prepare for Silent Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u267	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm going to be very frank with you, dear colleagues, because if you think we are, because we're involved in some serious things, we're already completely deaf, you're very wrong. Let's call things our names. Today the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies was discussed, and in fact, every single one of you sitting in this room today was very well aware of the coup d'état. It was the political component of this coup, which is being carried out by a new political power, I think it should be called this political power. It's not just a parliamentary majority of nine factions, it's also a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I think it's really worth calling you "Questmaists" -- that's a very good approach, a very good name. Today's talk is about actually continuing what you started on December 24, it's about using the so-called political reform to model the results of the presidential elections. Today it's about how we're not going to elect a new parliament, because this is where we don't understand it, but it's in the middle of the room that understands it. Today, even a ten - percent barrier is voted in order for this part of the Hall to vote in favour of changes to the Constitution and then toss them out. And you're going back to the election law, two years left. And you're going to go back to even a purely majority election system. Now it's about how a criminal mafia regime can be saved. So let's not fool ourselves, because today it's not about the law on election of Ukrainian national deputies on a proportional basis or on some other basis, because "Our Ukraine" started this, it's exactly our principle position. You've just come up with a way of seeming to maneuver us into an idiotic position. You won't make it, gentlemen! We make it clear today that we are behind political reform, but we are against political reform being used as a means of modeling the results of the elections. We're in a proportional system, but we'll never support any argument where the law on elections on a proportional basis will be used as the main political component of a coup d'état.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing those who are involved in this discussion, so let's talk about the bills that we're discussing. Please, Silence, "Our Ukraine," prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u269	Paul Mokchan, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I have been watching for several months for various reasons, either in silence or from the hospital, or from this lava for what is happening for a long time in this session hall. You don't have to tease yourself. The great smoke of the curtain that has been made by those who have actually, Mr. Romane, brought about the coup in Ukraine, the last is now being cleared, when teachers are being expelled, by political views, when the last people who have adhered to the principles of moral highs are being expelled from everywhere. For example, the head of the Shevchenkovsky Reserve in Canoe. I can name hundreds of people who have recently been on a schedule through various departments, through the Ministry of Education, Culture, Information, Ecology. It's washed out, it's kicked out, it's done. I now appeal to those who really have a golden share. I was a very high-ranking leader of the Socialist Party faction because of the 5th column in Ukraine, which is working consistently against Ukraine and against all of Ukraine for a long time, starting with the paper and ending with all the national problems. I'm not talking. I'm not talking about those. I have only reason to say that the people are not wrong when they say, "What was bought for, who received the great millions from the leaders of the Fifth Column of the Communist faction?" How much is it bought for? Because if you're consistent, you have to stick to 10 percent, which was called recently. You're not sure about your victory anymore, so you want to save 3 percent. And recently, the criteria were 10 percent higher so that they wouldn't be here, so there wouldn't be anyone who would buy and group up, which was modeled here last time. So I would like to appeal to the head of the Socialist faction. Do you not understand that we are helping in one or more ways today, or that Victor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk will be Prime Minister and we already see all the reasons for the arrangements, and there are auctions behind our backs? But you'll ruin the situation. I appeal to you, socialists. You will destroy and lead to unforeseeable terrorist acts in Ukraine. They will happen if we surrender to this game today. And I urge you, you have a card in your hands, play fair and not in the underdog. Thank you. I didn't call her last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u270	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm once again pointing out that, according to the rules of the Rules, I'm going to take the floor of those who don't talk about the Laws of the People's Deputies. That's the first one. The other one. I make a remark to the national MP of Muccan that threats to terrorist acts and other similar statements are coming out of his mouth. Let's not do this, dear fellows. Please, Bondarenko, I can't see. There is a need to consult. Dear colleagues! There is an offer to consult. We've got the leftovers. The factions have already come out. We have suggestions. We have now 12 speakers, and all of these 12 speakers are part of the factions that are proposing to stop the discussion. Those who signed up don't insist on the performance? Then now we're going to swap lines and we're going to figure it out. Please, Frost, Pinzenik, Simonenko. But once again, my respectable colleagues, the feedback, the answers to the lines, I will no longer give. Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u271	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to those who mentioned here the leadership of the Socialist Party about the position. I'm not going to name a last name, because not one of them was referring to the kind of conscience, understanding what was going on. I want to remind you, my dear colleagues, that you and I have reviewed four times in this session hall the election law to the Supreme Council on a proportional basis, and four times to this day you have voted with us for a proportional election system. Why do you vote against it today? I'll explain. I'll explain, I'll tell you very frankly right now what this is about, because you understand very well that if this law isn't voted out, and we've talked about it since the beginning of the work on political reform, then we won't be supporting the vote for changes to the Constitution, because then they don't make sense. And you, I have such suspicions, I don't insult you, you don't want political reform. You feel that the authority of today with the present authority is already in your pocket. And you're very wrong about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u273	I think it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u274	Thank you. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u275	Dear National Deputies! I ask Adam Ivanovich to apologize to the faction of "Our Ukraine" and to the silent. And do not translate responsibility from a sick head into a healthy one. It is you who provoke terror in the Supreme Council Hall, and what you do is terror. And you're conducting terrorist acts by immediately printing votes from MPs who are in the Supreme Council outside the Supreme Council. It's in your ideology of political power that there's obviously terror.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u276	Yes, please, Simonenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u277	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, six years ago, we proposed and consistently conducted a line for the adoption of a law on proportional elections. And we're sequentially continuing this fight now. I also confirm that the problem lies in the other plane: it is because of the non-adoption of the law on elections on proportional principles to block the adoption of changes to the Constitution. And with regard to "snifflers." I read their names: Pinzenik, Yushchenko, Červonenko, Hare, Kostenko, Yuhnovsky, Drach, Grigorovich, Joulinsky, Teryohin and many others who worked in and served in the governments of Kuchma. And it's about who he thinks he is. The Mobcan statement, which threatens the people of Ukraine with terrorist acts, testifies to "ours are ours." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, I'm back. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed on that. There are two factions left who suggest that the discussion be stopped. Then came the recordings: Kenzior, Yultak, Manchulenko, Grigorovich, Czarvolenka. So we keep talking, we still have an hour. Please, Rudzkowski, the Socialist faction, prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, today, we do have a serious question of making a decision under a law that may open the way for us to make a positive decision on the changes to the Constitution. The adoption of this law gives us the opportunity to adopt a new law on the election of the President. We must also adopt the Presidential Elections Act if we are to have the right to choose from the opposition, because in the old edition of the district commission and the local district committee, the district councils are to be carried out under the control of district organizations. There will be no election. And I'm surprised at the position of the people's deputies who, along with us for a month, blocked the rostrum with one goal: to leave the people's right to elect the President in public, to deprive the oligarchs of the possibility of electing the President in the Supreme Council. We've done it. The other one. We were seeking the adoption of the Law on Proportional Elections in the Supreme Council. And that's what we did. Most of us are under pressure to meet. And now we're ready for some castles built in the air to implement, someone there thinks that they've decided everything for the people, we want to take away the entire state, the entire Ukrainian people democratize society, democratize our lives once and for all, so that Ukraine in Europe is perceived not by a wild field, but by a state in which a balanced government, in which the executive power is under parliamentary control. Parliament is elected by transparent law without falsifications and so on. And I'm actually surprised at people who call themselves Democrats who talk about European values. It's just a shame. You can't do that, you can't call two people honest and democratically oriented. You can't talk about democracy inside a dictator. Democracy is a balance, openness and sequence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u280	Thank you. Melniczuk conveys the word of Nikolaynek. Nikolainka, a faction of socialists. Prepare Melnik, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now say that there may be some misunderstanding at first sight, but I am deeply convinced that, after some small period, those who are now actively opposed to the law will also actively defend it so that this law really is and that it will not be changed. I can make a couple with anyone right now. So let us, when we criticize something, be so careful, realizing that tomorrow the situation can change. Why is there a need for a proportional law today. Clearly, we have a state mechanism today. It works ineffectively. We've replaced ten governments in this mechanism, we've replaced four of the Supreme Councils of Ukraine, in fact, there's going to be a third president soon, and we're seeing that in this mechanism and the torque, and the rotations, they're not what our state needs. So I think that a proportional law is just what will give us today to add responsibilities to our authority, which means that power will be self-sufficient. Today the majors, and I, by the way, also the major, say I'm irreplaceable in the county, I'm helping. Why am I helping? That's because there's a paralysis of local authority today. Local authorities don't do anything, and they can't, and they won't. We need to make sure that the electorate doesn't have to go after him, that the roof is flowing, that we don't have to go after the gasification of the street, and that the authorities themselves work in the city, that the local authorities are self-sufficient, that they work for their communities. And we want today, if you'll excuse me, with total poverty, to be useful to people. I believe that there is a firm political necessity for the adoption of this law. And some other arguments. It says here that we socialists give something to someone. We're taking some bribes if we can agree on 3 percent of the vote, lowering the voting rate. But I want to tell you, this is completely wrong, because you're measuring it in absolute measure, and let's compare it to what it is today. We have 225 districts today, and we're going out on three percent of the total proportional system. That's why you win straight, and we see it. And that's why we don't need to put a shadow on today, as they say. Yeah, the fence, or the knitting, Russian. And last of all, there's a lunarity, they say, you see, only in small European countries is there a proportional electoral system. But all of these countries live a lot, so why do we not set an example? But today, thanks to a majorist and a rotten system of power, it is not possible to lead to the absence of 5 million people. Until we drop to ten million people, we will enter a proportion and save the people. These political forces need to paint themselves in the right color and be responsible for their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u282	Yes. The word from the Socialist faction is Melnik, followed by Harmash. There's no miller. Garmash? He's refusing. Please, Lucenka, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u283	Honorable National MPs. Before speaking out here emotionally today, I would urge you to do two things here. First. Not to give in to emotions or to burn down the cooperation that has been worked out for years first in opposition to those intelligent, farsighted people who are in the majority. How will we live tomorrow? How will Ukraine live tomorrow? It depends on two things: changing the system of power and changing people in power. One won't work without the other. We know how many decent, normal people have tried to be in power, and they have not been able to change the situation in Ukraine for the better. We know that without normal people, no system works, no morals, no political responsibility can lead to a negative outcome of any kind. So today we have the opportunity to change together, to start changing the system of power. The Law on Proportional Elections is one of the main mechanisms for responsible and political people to come to Parliament so that the sick people who have their own ambitions, who have their own greed, who are sick in the medical sense, do not first come here. The parties must form lists. And the respectable colleagues in "Our Ukraine" and in "BU" let's be honest, let's say that we would have had our last elections in proportion, this session room would have been completely different and completely different laws would have been adopted here. So what you are saying today is a conjuncture. So for Ukraine, we need to pass a law on proportional elections. And that's a big truth. We could argue about interest right now. But all of us must be honest with ourselves: these percentages will be changed; the barrier will be changed. Whoever wins this year and the presidential election changes them. We're going to raise, they're going to go down to zero. And that's why today we need to adopt a technology law on proportional choices so that in the Constitution it's fixed in transitional positions. And so that the next parliament, in Donetsk, don't take buses that vote in all the districts one time on hard-boiled coupons, so that they don't drive a bag of money in exchange for bags with ballots in the Cherkas region and so on. So, Rajiso Vasilovna, I love you and greet you with the festival of Clara Chetkin, you don't have to worry about the question in another. We must accept this law. But one more thing. And continue to be together, and continue to be together to change people in today’s power. And so let's not beat the heart, let's not give in to emotion, but let's all do it together, dear fellows, to vote for what the Supreme Council was blocking together here in December and January.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u284	Thank you. Please, Semenyuk of the Socialist faction. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u285	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. First of all, I would like to welcome all the women of Ukraine to the upcoming festival, to say good - bye. And I want women to go into politics, to go to different levels. And so that the quota proposed today in Parliament for the election of deputies on lists of 20 percent as a minimum has been implemented and the members of the council of different levels have also been represented by women's half. I think today's discussion is the next step that the Socialist Party of Ukraine is conducting. In 2000, we talked about political reform. The Constitutional Court confirmed this. I want to say that today's law on elections on a proportional basis, adopting it, is the first step in ensuring that the following law we have to adopt the Law on elections on a proportional basis, at least to councils of different levels, to the level of the area. It's this opportunity to form both executive organs and ultimately to get people to see those political parties that take responsibility for themselves. Let our Ukraine come to power with responsibility. And when people see their work, they will see whether to choose them for the next period or not. Let the coalition government here be formed and held accountable in the formation of executive bodies and be accountable to the electorate. And our people already know political parties. I've been through all the major elections today and I'm on the list today, and I want to say that in all the public receptions where I accept people, people know that I represent the Socialist Party. And that's why I think that the adoption of this law will allow for the representation of both the executive bodies and the representative bodies of those parties that will take responsibility for themselves. It's going to be hard. And I think that in this situation today, our polarity will combine with the concerns that people expect of us. We need to change, and I'm here to support Lucenka, who said to bring people back from parties that could have torn Ukraine apart at such a difficult time, raised its economic level so that Ukraine would know, not by trade in children, not by trade in arms or anything else, but by good things. And we will all be united with you. I think the Proportional System Act is a step forward, a step towards the responsibility of political parties. And I think that the temporary commission that works today, it will change the Presidential Act, will allow political parties to control the 2004 presidential election to be held accountable for the results of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u286	The word is given by the national deputy Lechchenko, a faction of Communists. Get Masenka ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u287	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! It's against any reform in Ukraine, because the Americans don't want it. That's a dangerous bribe. But it is necessary to reform the system of power, including the electoral law, because the oligarchy clans, including the lava of ours, have been strengthened. Three people have already been robbed: these are savings, trusts, privatization, the violent exploitation of hired workers. That is, financial resources have become crucial. bourgeois authorities have grown stronger. So the administrative resources are now on the financial side. Thus, in 2002, the election of the National Deputies, especially in the majority districts, took place on the basis of these two resources. The Montenegrins in these districts are represented by six Ukrainian national deputies, four of whom are Kiev residents, one banker from Kharkiv and only one black man. They are all representatives of the great oligarchic clans. The main arguments for winning sympathy were money, food sets, bicycles, concerts, commission bribes, soldiers, and patients in mental hospitals, the pressure of power on voters, or total deception. That's the first one. The other one. All of these candidates, who have become national deputies from Montenegro, have offered voters very attractive programs that are written down mainly by the Communist Party of Ukraine and are prepared with promises of gasification of population items, etc., or non-putty functions. None of them will ever run their own program, for such programs are 225. They really forgot about it right after the election. In addition, there is very little communication with voters in the districts. So the majority electoral system is not a system that is in the interests of the electorate. It needs to be completely replaced with a proportional one. Nor is the proportion offered by the Ukrainian national deputy Victor Musiak, because the criminal oligarchy clans, even though they fight violently among themselves, will divide the regions and buy them. For example, Lazarenkov's Grogad in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Therefore, only a purely proportional system today in Ukraine is the most democratic and acceptable to the people of Ukraine. In doing so, the electorate does not choose a good uncle, but a party does vote for a transparent and open list of candidates. Then the party that gets the most support, or coalition, will be through its established government to carry out its program. At the same time, each national MP is responsible for the party and is responsible for it. Only in this system will the people of Ukraine be able to choose for themselves a system of social or capitalism or socialism. Please support the Bill of People's Deputies of Rudzkowski, Klukkowski, Ponomarenko, Oluyka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u288	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we may consult. Who among those who signed up insists on the talk? Yes, the word is Masenko, a faction of Communists. Prepare the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u289	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! And respectable voters, radio listeners! I'm just surprised to hear when individual drafters of the bill, speaking from the rostrum, were told here that our people were not ready, they weren't mature, and that they were holding elections on a proportional basis. Thus, he will never mature if we do not go to meet him. And the fact that our people are not exactly what we think of them has been shown by the 2002 elections. There, I think, is someone, and the representatives of our Ukraine have nothing to do with their fate, as they say. They were supported by the people of Ukraine, and this could happen in 2006. What are you afraid of? The people have already identified themselves. And people are willing to run elections on a proportional basis, I think there's nothing more to talk about. And when it's said that the MPs are going to be tied to the district, that's exactly what I see in my practice is that it's the major MPs that are most disconnected from the district. They are not bound. I've already traveled more than half of the area's population, and all the people are talking, and where are our deputies? Why don't they show up? That's what I'm talking to the Poltava district majors. Go to your constituents, go to the people, meet them at least, and listen to what they say. And you say that our people are not ready. And when I can't agree that there are individual speakers on the right hand side saying that there is already a great tribulation, that the land is being sold by the current coup d'état. And whoever did this, you did your own thing that they can sell the land now, you did a coup d'état in 2000, you contributed to the situation in Ukraine right now. And when my friend from our Ukraine says that let's get political reform back into the constitutional order, so I can agree with him, let's go back, but for the sake of justice, let's get the events of the year 2000 back into the constitutional order. Let's put Tkachenko, Martinyuka in the Presidency, and let's keep the count, and let's work. I do not object, not selectively, to whom it is convenient and at what point to return to constitutional order. And at the end, I can't help but say, because we've been hit here, I call the names: Yushchenko, Pinzenik, Czervonenko, Hare, Kostenko, Yuhnowski, Drach, Grigorovich, Joulinsky, Teryohin, Ivy Hero of Ukraine, Immortal, Yehanurov, Udovenko, Tarasyuk and Gurvitz. Dear friends, you've eaten so much more of this together from the bush bark, which is what all of the people of Ukraine, you're "puppets."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u290	Please, Teeth. No teeth. Orzhachovsky, the Communist faction. Please, Karmazin's minute is in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u291	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, please. You make the same demands to all those who speak because you warn, you turn off microphones to other factions, and you don't talk about your factions, you don't talk about election laws, you don't insult others, you don't talk about them. And I am ready to welcome today, as of March 8, not only all the women of Ukraine, but also everyone who has been raped today by the men who are sitting in this room. Please don't make me personally welcome you from March 8th, not only on my behalf, but on behalf of the Party of Protectors of the Motherland. And please, Adam Ivanovich, let us make the same demands on all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u292	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I repeat, there will be lines. I repeat what I asked for, and I was reminded of Yuri Anatolyovich. Everyone speaking, I'm asking you to talk about the bills that we're discussing. Orzhachowski will begin now. There'll be replicas. Please. He'll be followed by the gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, voters! I have to say that we have enough bills. Today, they listened carefully to every drafter of the bill. And we feel responsible for the fate of our electoral system in the future, for the course that will follow after we solve the election problems of this year. We really have a choice. I personally represent a political party, and while in the district, I often wonder if the representatives of the political party know about it and whether they know it from the majority. By the laws that are being proposed today, we can return to that old system of things only major or we can choose perspectives. This perspective is that the corresponding party will run its line through its people to approve the appropriate program and be the responsible authority. Without the responsibility of authority, because of electoral legislation, we will have nothing. And that's why we're going to have these 12 years in motion, no matter who says something about what we have today, we have a complete breakdown in power, in consciousness, in the souls and hearts of our people. And that's why I have to tell my colleagues today of those chosen on the majority system. It's not about the system. Sometimes it's just a matter for each of us. I know many Hersonian deputies today, and I also remember that I am from this region, even though I represent those who supported the Communist Party. But I'm meeting people in Herson County, and they're asking me, "Where are our cheerleaders?" I don't always say. It has happened that one of the deputies today, when the administration, the district council, the electorate, demands that our deputy be found, so he has filed a lawsuit against the authorities and against the electorate for a large amount of moral, you see what the damage is. So in this perspective we have to think -- there are flaws in different systems, but the perspective is responsible, the power must be before the people first and foremost. There is party structure and electoral legislation in this. I support the Ponomarenka-Rudkovsky-Klückowski bill, and I would like to say to the right-hand man, you've done so much, don't criticize the communists, we've seen during the political reform, who was there from the balcony with you. And what you are guided by we know very well. Today you have provided us with everything that our people would not want, perhaps a monument to your motorists for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u294	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, the lines will be sure, there will be replicas. Dear colleagues, there will certainly be replicas. Sergei Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. I'm going back to the session room, and we're now left with two Communist factions and our Ukraine. Let's do this, here they ask for words, they ask for the words of the leaders of these factions, there's both Yushchenko and Simonenko. Oh, no? We will continue, please, to prepare Solomonine from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u295	Thank you, thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I'm going to allow you to break your relevant recommendations to yourself, which you've been giving the room, and I'm going to delay for a second. Once again, I would like to congratulate all our dear women and those who are in the hall and those who are outside it and say dear women, only the proportional system will give you the opportunity to be represented in the supreme legislature. Now it's on the merits. You know, if I were to be asked what system in some abstract country, where power, the authorities are obliged to love their people, and the people are not obliged to vote underwater and juryly for these representatives of power, which system is the best, I would say, major. But we don't live in an abstract country, we live in Kushmov Ukraine, and we have, unfortunately, completely different realities. Here a colleague of mine said that the transition to a proportional system would lead to the usurpation of power. Full! The authorities have long been usurped, and the majority of their deputies in the majorities have been appointed. You don't have to forget that. Now, what colleagues say on the right, representatives, I'm not going to use the term "ours," I'm going to say, as it says, "Our Ukraine" in coffeehouses. Thus, the representatives of our Ukraine in coffee shops say that, in principle, the law is proportionately good, but today it is not necessary to adopt it. We need to increase from four percent to ten percent. It's my fault. It's as obvious to me as being healthy as being sick. But in practice, this is aimed at breaking the vote on this palliative, imperfect but still better law. And I want to agree with my colleague Zvaric, he said exactly, in my opinion, that today it is the preservation of the oligarch regime in Ukraine. I agree with him. It is now a matter of preserving the Constitution, which makes it possible for the regime to remain in power. The programme of this conservation is clearly defined in one of the statements by Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko. He said we need to change the staff in the brothel and leave the brothel in order to serve the interests of wealthy customers. And keep it going. In order to move to a new power, to a new, honest all power, we need to start by changing the Constitution to an electoral law. Well, the point is, when a colleague of mine said that the communists were supposed to get millions of dollars, that kind of stuff had to be proved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u296	The word is given to Solomon, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Kenzior. Yes, please, Kenzior, "Our Ukraine," to prepare Jovtek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u297	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! Perhaps everyone here and millions of Ukrainian voters thought about a very simple question: Why did our President, when necessary, have to give in for such a verbal passage, have to collect suitcases and leave the President's office, had to be overtaken by the political constitutional reform of the Ukrainian people? And of course, all the weights, all the pocket structures, the courts, the constitutional -- first of all, that doesn't add one plus one, and somehow it has one. And the task of all of those, this constitutional design, the revisions of the Constitution, all of them already know -- one: to leave this criminal chamber for an indefinite time to manage Ukraine, to get it to the end. Again, we understand why two more years before the parliamentary elections, and today, there is an urgent problem with the adoption of the law on parliamentary elections. Dear majority, you are already here, poor fellows, you have never sat down on Friday, you have already, I see, bruised with hunger, you would not drink a single drink if it were not for today’s law and the command to be to the end and vote in favour of this law. We understand that this law is needed as bait as a political bribe, and this has been talked about by communists and socialists on several occasions to involve them in the vote of Project 4105, which was voted here by the hands and feet of this session hall. We have a wonderful understanding of this, and then we must tell the Ukrainian people today. I'm not surprised at the position of the Communists, it's really from that presidential brothel a political force that's always played against the President. It's like Maiakowski's, "we're talking about a party, we're talking about Lenin," we're talking about Kuchma, we're talking about Simonenko. And the other way around. That's exactly the same thing. So this one. This is political. The political speculation that is brewing today, which is being organized in this room today, we must do our utmost to ensure that such a law on proportional elections should be adopted, we are supporters of this choice, but not to serve as bait for the constitutional coup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u298	Please, Yellow, Our Ukraine. Prepare Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u299	Eugene Jovtjak, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", Kyivo-Svatoshinsky and Irpine Electoral District 95. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Today, we would like to speak logically and professionally about the advantages of an election system. If today were to talk about the electoral system, I would be happy to present to you a draft electoral code that I have presented, which in the complex decides both the issue of elections to the Supreme Council and the question of local and presidential elections and the question of local and state referendums. But today, in fact, there were only two positions. First position. It's like continuing the agony of the bloody criminal oligarchic regime of Kuchma, Yanukovich, Surkis, Medvedczuk and their friend Simonek. And second position. How to get this regime removed from power. Therefore, those who vote for the Electoral Law today will actually vote for Kuchma and his regime and for the continuation of the agony of this regime. Those who do not vote in favour of this law vote for Ukraine’s chance for a better life. A positive vote today is the key to an anti-constitutional coup called constitutional reform. In fact, the right to constitutional reform under the current Ukrainian Constitution is limited to political power, which, when elected in its programme, recorded such changes and received the support of 300 votes in the Supreme Council or 70 percent of voters. Then such political power has the right to carry out similar reforms. What is happening today? Today, there are only 80 deputies in this room who, in one way or another, have written about similar constitutional reform, constitutional reform in a similar way has been recorded in the Communist Party programmes and in the Socialist Party program. And their right to stand up for this reform, but to support this reform, they got 80 parliamentary mandates or 20 percent of voters. Thus, the right to reform was not obtained. Instead, by the voices of members of the majority who, in their programs, have made no mention of the constitutional reform that has been written about bridges, roads, and so forth, are now trying to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u300	Please, Manchulenko, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare to be Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u301	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Well, maybe in Ukraine, all the socio-economic problems have been solved, and all that's left is the adoption of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies on a new basis, or the old foundation, or the return to the majority base. And then we're going to have a so-called constitutional coup, and we're all going to be very happy. The government may have already raised the minimum wage from 207 dollars to 237 dollars, which was established by law. But the government reduced to 207 minimum wages. Perhaps the government has already taken care of the assignment of pensions, which has also made our pensioners happy today, adding two, three, five dollars, and sometimes even taking some of the money they have already received as a retirement benefit. Perhaps the government has already dealt with this, and the government has dealt with other social problems. I'm not talking about the problems associated with the budget for the current year when I've adopted the parliamentary majority so much that they don't know how to get out of it, how to stir it up and patch it up. Well, they passed the so-called 4000-1 bill, Minfin said it needed to be supported, the State Tax Administration said it needed to be vetoed. The president vetoed it. And again, it was not possible to adjust the bad budget for this year. So they've solved all the socio-economic problems, improved the standard of living of our citizens, our pensioners, our veterans to such an extent that only political reforms have been left behind? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We need to tell the truth in the face of our people. Not to paint on television screens, but to say what did you do with the minimum wage, the executive authority, what did you do with the pensions, what did you do with the budget? What subsidies do regions receive today for investment projects? How will they be distributed in areas, including one - mandating majority districts? Because there is real help waiting for our voters with you, and then after that, if we can say that these issues have been resolved positively, we can move on to the solution and the political problems. Now that's all that's going on, you know, it's all causing such a bad feeling and it's kind of like a farce. Not fooling the Ukrainian people for a long time is enough to do unnecessary things that will only keep existing clans in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u302	Please, Grigorovitch, the faction of our Ukraine, prepare for the Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u303	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters, respected citizens of Ukraine. For those of you who have just joined our radio, television, and thought that today's concerned MPs want to finally make Ukrainian women mothers happy and work so hard in this room, I want to comment on what's finally going on. There is an ad hoc procedure that our speaker described yesterday as nothing more than a itch, but just this kind of political crust played out today in the Friday Hall before the 8th of March. Why is it so itchy? In two and a half years of parliamentary elections, in eight months of presidential elections, but itches something else, itches immediately to vote on the law, any, ever, in any way, but to vote. This is done on the eve of March 8, and our esteemed factions, which speak so much good of women today, have not brought the majority factions in order, have not brought the daily law on gender equality into order, anything like that. Once a year, some women were mentioned there, and today we need a panacea from all the troubles of the Law on Proportional Elections. So, ladies and women, I want to assure you that as false as this is to be voted in the itch today, this law will take care of you, will take care of your children. I would like to address today all colleagues, potential voters, both Communists and most, and perhaps socialists. Dear friends, a month ago, I spoke to an entrepreneur, a businessman who came to Ukraine from Lithuania. And he said to me, "How did it turn out to be your sand," -- he called JEDU, who only won the Donetsk region -- "suddenly became a majority?" I'm saying, "It's very simple, but the key and the spice is the medieval method." He thought, and he said, "You know, we do. I'm sure Paxis will get the impeachment. And the medieval methods won't work. Because even if each of our deputies had given a knut or a spice, and that spice even had the appearance of a case or a diplomat, our deputies from the Lithuanian Parliament would not have waited until morning, and they ran with that case down and testified where they needed it. That's why Paxis gets the impeachment." Dear friends, as they did with the Agrarian Party. She won the parliamentary election in 1998 and was thrown out. Remember when they came to the NDP, what are they doing with them today? So each of you, a major, a communist, is thrown out. People, you should try to stay on your own today. If you can hear me, I'd like to think on that day of the holiday that you so formally mentioned today, to think about your constituent women, mothers, children, that you're absolutely closing the hatch to that normal thing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u304	Please, Blackwolf. I can't see. Oh, I'm sorry. Blackwolf, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u305	Alexander Blackwolf, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear friends, you and I are discussing a law for which we should not sit in this room, and there is little point in talking about gender equality. For it is foolish to discuss what has already passed in this House. I want to remind you that the law that is about to pass is the law of Klukkowski. I've already won 275 votes or 285 votes in the last call. And then he wasn't signed by the President, he vetoed it, and he didn't let it go. The veto could be completely peaceful in this room. So should we talk about this law among ourselves, or should we talk about it with the President, or would he sign it? And it takes a lot of thought, and why would he sign it if he didn't sign it before the parliamentary elections, two years ago. Why would he sign in front of the presidents? The answer is also clear to all. The obvious answer is that today's President wants to weaken the Presidential Authority, and for that, he's willing to bribe some politicians who pretend to be willing to weaken the Presidential Authority if they're promised a proportional system. Well, first of all, President Kuchma gives such a bribe in vain, because both the communists and the socialists are willing to weaken the presidential power, and without a proportional system. If a purely majority law were now adopted, they would still vote for constitutional reform. And secondly, frankly, Kuchma doesn't lose anything, because his environment, his regime will still have a change in this law, many times more fooling both communists and socialists and the Ukrainian people. That's why we're in a situation where one cheats more than one, well, one wins: either the left president, or the left president, or they're all Ukrainian people together. So the subject of this conversation is, in fact, not an election law, but a constitutional reform that Ukraine needs or does not need. Ask the Ukrainian people what does he want? Does he want a strong president or a weak one? Obviously, he wants a strong President who could change something in this state, obviously he understands that if the President is elected with partial powers, this state will lose the opportunity to live in human life for a few years. And obviously, it's not to let Ukraine live more humanly, it's the goal of both the majority and the communists and the socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u306	Yes, the word is "our Ukraine" by the people's representative of Chubarov. Get ready, Polnchich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u307	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Undoubtedly, the question under discussion about the principle of the formation of a higher legislative body of the State is one of the most important prospects for building civil society in Ukraine. Depending on which electoral system will be adopted in its final form, the level of direct involvement of all components of Ukrainian society in governance and their involvement in decision-making will depend. From my point of view, this topic, the topic of equal opportunities for the participation of all components of society, including ethnic communities living in Ukraine in government structures, and more faithfully, as stated in the recommendations recommended by the Council of Europe for its members, so that the breakthrough of inability to influence decisions is very and very important. Sadly, today’s discussion takes place in a completely different direction than it would have wanted. More true than that, honourable colleagues are discussing the drafts themselves on the election of Ukrainian national MPs, because the political forces represented by their factions in parliament are trying to identify their ideological, stereotyped ones. I'm trying to do this kind of public speaking in some way, although it's possible to do this, by allowing labels to be affixed to one or the other political parties. And at the same time, I feel very uncomfortable when my political opponents are trying to create some stereotypes in our society because of some of the other notions. I don't know, I mean, I understand very well what stereotypes you want to make, saying the word that you're using in relation to our faction is that we understand that these are all our neighbors, close, distant, Ukrainian, Russian, Crimean Tatars, Jews and others. That's what we put in this "our" concept, that's our Ukraine! And it's a very different point we're putting into things that you still like today. For me and my associates, Communists and fascists who committed the same crimes against the people are alike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u308	The word has the national deputy Poljancic, the faction "Our Ukraine", to prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u309	Our Ukraine faction, 168th constituency, Mikhailo Poljancic. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, Your Honor! I am never a frequent guest of this rostrum. But because of the importance of today’s issue, I have no moral right in front of my constituents and do not speak on my own. If I need a polytreform, I'm going to say yes today. But not the polytapher that the people of Ukraine will live on. Dear friends, 2004 presidential election. We're talking about 2006 today, where are we going, and who are we chasing? Today, we say so if there were to be parliamentary elections in six months. Does the five laws that were presented today have the right to exist today? I'd say everyone has the right to exist. But the very best law today in that system of things cannot work because it is a system of improbable, it is scurvy, and people today do not trust anyone or even those representing our laws. Today, dear friends, I would like to say that from 1994 onward, either an economic affair every six months, or a political affair. Let's say a few words about history. I don't want to call it names, but I want to call it a golden example. When I was the head of the Supreme Council, the honourable Alexander Alexander, whom I highly respect as a man and as a politician, we will speak in some way and a comrade. Please tell me, how was everything done repressively at the time to sign a constitutional treaty and 70 percent of the parliaments to take away the rights that we are fighting for today? And it was done. Let's look at the affair with Tuck, when and how it was done. Land and all the other questions. And, dear friends, look, this previous year, which was the 21st century, the food affair, the bread affair. I want to say that we have constantly every six months, or political upheavals, or economic shocks to confuse people, confuse us, national MPs, and not allow this state to exist normally. But when I finish, I see that time is coming to an end, and I want to say that I believe in God, and I think that there will be a normal democratic president that we would be in charge of.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u310	Dear colleagues! Don’t worry about the rules, as you pointed out, the technique is quite careful. So please, Kostinuk, the faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u311	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Today, during the promulgation of these few basic draft electoral bills, many speakers said that Ukraine was not ready, and the MP himself was not ready for a proportional system. And that's what I'm trying to say. That's what we were told about before. in 1998, 2002. But if I had too little time, I would be a proponent of a proportional system of my own, I would agree somewhere that a year-by-a-half would work with these deputies to make them advocates of a proportional system, and that's why, given that we're sending all those laws to work today and we're looking at more pressing social problems. The right ones who said that today's consideration of these bills and the future of their adoption are aimed at preserving the oligarchy clan regime and evil, I want to say, Communists when they say that this is not the truth. I want to point out that in this room, not only is there a trick in this rostrum, but they are also deceiving our electorate, including the women of Ukraine. Because it was said that if there was a proportional law, if there was a proportional law, half of the women could be included in the list and in equal conditions would be with men. I want to ask you, what prevented them from listing half the women in the last election? It's just three women of everything. Well, it's not nice to lie like that, isn't it? Adam Ivanovich, I haven't been able to work this way in Parliament's history until Friday at 16.15. And I ask myself why Parliament has so long planned to work. There's information that after the results of the vote on the board, the figure of 241 votes "yes." Adam Ivanovich, I want you to give a mandate to the Standing Committee right now to count "live," the actual number of deputies present in the Hall. Because you can visually see that on the right side of the room. There aren't even 150 deputies on the left side of the hall. And so it doesn't go the way it was in Stalin's time, which doesn't matter how we vote, but it's important how we count. Today we're counting the "Race" system. Adam Ivanovich, I would like you to pay attention to this procedural question. And besides, they didn't allow the Constitution to be broken for someone to vote for the missing two cards and so on. So the right ones are talking about what they have now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u312	Yes, dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's consult again. If I give the word now to Viktor Andriyovich, Simonenko will speak after him and we're done. Oh, no? Let's keep going. We have 11 minutes left. So if you don't mind, we'll keep going. Please, Victor Andrievich Yushchenko, "Our Ukraine", after him Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u313	Dear friends, let me start by saying hello to the women on the upcoming holiday, because maybe you can rule it out and I won't be able to do that. Happiness, health, and comfort in your families Dear friends, dear friends! What should power do in Ukraine today? 86 percent of those surveyed give a clear answer: The authorities in this country should be responsible for the organization of jobs, wages, and pensions. Another 57 percent of respondents say that the country’s number two priority should be power corruption and the fight against crime. For if this does not work out in this country, dear friends, all that is said here by both the naive and the wise people of this rostrum, these are empty words about the right of the poor. In third place, the so - called political reform is true. It's supported by 3.2 percent of the people. They're mainly government tax officials, I think the central apparatus, as well as government officials. So that's why in eight months, my esteemed fellow national MPs, when this power comes from the market when this regime, Peter Mikolaiovich, as you call each sentence anti-national. So eight months later, this anti-national regime is coming out of the market. It introduces so - called political reform. And you applaud at every turn. What happened to you? What kind of political reform are we talking about? What are the goals? Dear friends, this is about manipulating democracy in this country, and the essence of this reform is to make a political reform that would allow this regime to remain in power. That's the whole point of this reform that you spit on. But you need a beautiful box, a twist. And that's a nice spin for you to have a proportional election system. Not about the proportional election system, dear friends, today we need to have a discussion in this Parliament. When we talk about a proportional system of friends, let's say two distinct things. The problem of the country’s political elections is not the election system. Half the world works in a majority system, but there is a guarantor of the Constitution, the law works and an honest electoral system works. There are half the countries, friends with a proportional system, where it also happens to be honest. We have problems with the government. Until we change the mode, we can't change the system. And so, my friends, please don't support any of the initiatives that have been put into the hall today. It's a provocation to push healthy democratic forces into this anti-constitutional process. And I want to finish with Alexander Alexandrovich's poetry, a book he gave me a few days ago. It's my address to, uh, my respectable friends, my opposition, my friends, my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u314	Victor Andryovich, now. Yes, the word has a national deputy Simonenko, a faction of Communists, to prepare the Tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u315	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. While welcoming our beautiful women, I would like to express my best wishes, but life requires saying things to us today. So in my speech, I would like to focus on some aspects of the need to adopt the new Electoral Law as a guarantee of a change in the political system. First. People hate power. Wherever we are with you today, there are clear statements: power needs to be changed, power is now working not in the interests of the people, but in the interests of individual oligarchic clans. Secondly, what reforms have led to the fact that the people are not a patriot practically in Ukraine, because they are going from Ukraine to look for another fate outside of Ukraine. The economic reforms that began with Pinzenic and others ’ ideology led to the acceptance, destruction of jobs, total unemployment, and poverty of the people. Bank reform is trusts and banks. Banks are closing down and people's property is being destroyed. The people of Ukraine were robbed of their trusts. Earth reform. Nothing to feed the people of Ukraine. Already, those who shouted that the Moscals had eaten our villages, turned to the Russians, and asked for grain to feed the people of Ukraine. Education reform. The debilitation of our young. Health protection, health - care reform, and the pervasiveness of our young generation. The reform of the Armed Forces is the loss of the defense of the state. Pension reform is a genocide against parents and mothers who are being forcibly destroyed today because of virtually no State support. So the people of Ukraine are right in speaking out against such a reform of society and giving an assessment to that authority? Including, once again, who was there, and for 12 years, side by side was walking alongside the regime's current representatives? All those who work in our Ukraine today. Secondly, I'd like to draw attention to what needs to be done. Due to political reform, the new law must be brought together by the people of Ukraine, brought together around one goal that Ukraine should be, either for the workers of our people, or for the oligarchs. I am convinced that the Electoral Law is just the unification of the people of Ukraine. It's different. Today we need to change the system of government. And we are proposing today because of the change in the Law of Choice to start a change in the system of power. I'd like to say it again. Today, it doesn't matter whether it's the Kuchma oligarchy or the ones that are surrounded by Viktor Andryovitch's oligarches. How are Red and Dusty different from the others who are sitting in this room? The same. So I want to say, people of Ukraine, it is necessary today for the people of Ukraine to win, not the oligarchs or.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u316	The word has the national MP Zubov, prepare for Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u317	Dear friends! I want to remind you that every bill on this issue deserves attention as, in fact, an interesting bill for the country. But under the condition that we would live with you under the conditions of a civilized democratic state. As chairman of the commission, the interim commission of inquiry into the mass violations of legislation in the Donetsk region, I will say that no bill that has been tabled today can be implemented in our state. For let us speak frankly, and this is, indeed, yes. Today, there are leftists present in the hall today, present in the hall, present today, and far - off rights. But let's make sure that the political struggle that is taking place today throughout the world with civilized norms should also be civilized in our hall. But to this day, I'm going to tell you how the head of the commission is, about the civilized form of fighting under the conditions of our state, there can be nothing. As head of the Commission on the Donetsk Region, Odessa, Kirovograd, I will say that neither in the Donetsk Region, nor in Kirovograd, nor in Odessa, there were any election of national deputies to the Supreme Council, there were appointments by governors of those who went to the elections, there was a violation of the election legislation to such a degree that it could be called not an administrative resource, not an abolition, but political banditry. And this is the reality that exists today. The Commission on the Donetsk Region, Kirovograd, Odessa collected thousands of pages of testimony, documents, and so forth. So today the only way to stop this power, the bandit power, is to choose and vote a law on proportional elections on a 100% basis. Why? It's the only mechanism that will allow control of power, but not completely, but still control it. I want to draw your attention to the fact that the Governor of the Donetsk Region is Mr. Yanukovic, who has turned the Donetsk area into a "recognition" he will do the same for the period of the presidential company today with all of Ukraine. He'll put it on the wheel, he'll make the laws of what we can't do, and we'll have a fascist state. So I propose to all of you to vote in favour of the law that the Socialist Party gives, in favour of the law that allows for the control of power. Otherwise we'll live under fascist conditions, stressing as a legislator, as an expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u318	The word has a national deputy, Rodionov, a faction of Communists, and we will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u319	Respectable radio audiences, people's deputies and presiding officers. I'm from the faction where the representatives of our Ukraine say that there are multimillionaire communists. If it's not clear to anyone, let them look at this millionaire so that every morning I wake up thinking, "Where are the millions who give power to the communists?" I want to tell you that the previous speaker said that we should have a civilized discussion, unfortunately, he was certainly deeply wrong about which civilization could be spoken of when the lead intelligent spoke and said and called, or he already knew that terrorist acts were being prepared somewhere. Maybe you do. I don't know. As for the project, of course, I am in favour of proportional elections. And I want to say one more fact why. Communist leader Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko has already stated the state of Ukrainian society. Dear People's Deputies, you may rest a little. We already have all the systems, there was a major, now there's, as they say, a mixed system. And if, in that time, there was an independent Ukraine, it would be more than 12 years, and you would remember what kind of time we went down into! We went down that hole where there's no way out. If, I imagine, it would be the United States of America, and now listen if it were the United States of America, and you attached your hand to that, too, you attached your hand to decommissioning, to democratization, to demobilization and beyond. So if it had been in the United States and in five years, the country would have reduced to so much, but the leader would have been tried first. If, in 12 years of this, Ukraine, from a rich country to make poverty, I think the President of the United States and everyone involved would be on an electric chair. And so far, we're saying, "One way out, we need to change this system." To have honest people come to power. Then, of course, we need to change who did it. And if you're wrong once, if it's your fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, I know, I know, the discussion is over. But we do have a right to a closing statement, so I'm a minute away. I repeat, I know. Get the word on the line. Don't worry. Please, Goshovsky. Do you want to do the closing word? None. Yes, the Musiyaka Victor Lavrentiovich concludes. He's refusing. Rudzikowski's closing word. He's refusing. Assadchev, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u321	Dear National Deputies! I'm usually a little sad that this room didn't have a professional discussion. I, for example, didn't quite understand what my proposal was to do with the ballots, the shelves were better than to make them "screw" and to spread them in pre-scheduled urns. For example, I didn't understand why my proposal to make a law for every participant, a protocol from every district, is worse than not to do it. Unfortunately, we did not have such a professional discussion and it is very sad. We've just moved on to images of each other, and believe me, we're with you today, looking at a law like the election law is far removed from the dream democracy of improvement that we've all been talking about here. And believe me, this improvement is not in the election law and it's not even in the Constitution. If you read the constitutions of other countries, they are not much worse than the written Ukrainian Constitution. All democracy, the development of the country, the respect of citizens -- it's in people's minds, in the sense that we have to discuss in a professional way the important problems of our society and make the best decision. Unfortunately, we haven't grown up yet. And I only have one request for you, one small one. When you pass the electoral law and when you vote for this disgraceful, it is said, from a legal point of view, that the change in the Constitution should not be destroyed by Parliament. That's one thing. Because it's on a single list, and all the more in the changes to the Constitution, when the entire composition of the government sits here, the Parliament will simply be gone. And this is the last feature of our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u322	Please, the closing word Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u323	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, it's such an impression that exactly the last word or closing word corresponds to what we're going to do today. Because the adoption of the Proportional System Act with closed lists is probably today. And today we will accept, as in court, the final word and sentence for our country, for our voters first. And let us, honourable colleagues, and bear in mind that it will be October, after October, December, where Parliament is highly likely to be dissolved, 2006 and on what conditions elections will be held, and necessarily subsequent years. And when we vote today, once again I ask everyone to be very careful about the bill passed by the people's deputies Gavriluk, Klimpus and Kirill Ananievich Polisticzuk, which included as a compromise between the proportional system of elections and the majority system of elections, where all interests are taken into account. Of course, he is imperfect, of course, there are a number of significant points that could be worked out and found, but all of them are possible. Plus, perhaps by combining the efforts of the interim follow-up commission, all stakeholders, to work out the best option and to introduce a law on second reading that would reflect the interests of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u324	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich, we will do this. Rudzkowski, then Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u325	Dear National Deputies! I want to agree with this rostrum with Viktor Andrijevic Yushchenk, which unfortunately, for Ukrainian citizens today, political reform is in third place. Victor Andryovich, that's right. But you know, when a person is hungry, when he doesn't have to feed his children, if he doesn't know what to wear his children, the question for them is, How do you live? How Can I Survive? How Can I Warm Up? But the reason for all of this is the imperfect political system. People don't understand, people can't explain to themselves why the fields were growing before, and now they're growing weeds? Why did the factories work? And now the factories are cutting into scrap metal. People, a simple worker, can't explain it. So the reason here is an imperfect political system. And we have to change this political system, balance it. And the only way to do that is to adopt a law on proportional elections, and the following is to adopt a law on the election of the President, elections proportional to local authorities in a way that does not belong to an official of power, but to hand over this authority to the people and to all those entrusted with whom a simple person trusts. Of course, after that, we must carry out political reform. I am surprised by people who always talk about European values and do not support European mechanisms for balancing power. You have to have a consistent position. Thank you. I'm asking for the law that I put in place, to vote for the basis, and in general, with my amendments. There's nothing more to add. We worked on it for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u326	Yes, please, Alexander Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u327	Dear colleagues, I want to correct my colleague, Mikola Rudzkowski, because it's not the system that's guilty, it's the regime that uses this system as a tool for human oppression. So you have to change the system and change the regime, there's no doubt. Next. We're just starting political reform. There's a lot to be done. And that's why we all need to work together, the whole Parliament. Let's move on. We should think, not of ourselves, but of the state, of society. With any electoral system, I'm going to go to the majors, to the proportionals, the next will leave no more than 25 to 40 percent of the MPs of today's vocation. And that's normal, that's how it's supposed to be. Finally, the decree to be voted on was not considered on the Temporary Special Commission until April 5. That's what I think is an artificial delay in reviewing the law as a whole. That's why there's a regular rule, it's supposed to be there for two weeks, if I'm not mistaken, 14 days. Please record this date and be guided by the Rules, and we will vote on this decree as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, the lines. Now we're going to assume the replica. The replica. We'll vote, don't worry. We follow all the regular procedures. It was called Pinzenic. One minute on the line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u329	The distinguished national MPs, "Our Ukraine", citizens of Ukraine and the military communists have long since been surprised by the life positions of Communist leaders of Peter Simonek. Because he clearly defined his life’s position: to be a reliable support to existing authorities. And what he's demonstrating in recent months is that he's led by so-called changes to the Constitution, which are designed to preserve the existing system of power, that's very well confirmed and demonstrated. And I think citizens and private communists have long dealt with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u330	They didn't call it a name powder. Hare, please. Rabbit Ivan Alexanderovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u331	I want to answer the representatives of the KPU who wanted me to be assigned to the Kuchmew trough, implying that I was the Minister of Ecology. Yes, I was the Minister of Ecology in the government of Yushchenka, and it's hard for you to believe that this government worked for the people. You feel uncomfortable today because it was you and the oligarchs who resigned that government and gave it to the oligarchs. You want to discredit him, but that won't work, because very big ears are lying to you, and your lies are lying to me like peas against a wall. Because I know the people's wisdom, "You'll pass the world by, but you won't come back." I was a public minister, and I was always in sight. And you have repeatedly applauded me as a minister in nature's protection. You don't have to have a conscience to keep me in control. And your bed is standing, and everyone knows it's in the dark, in the dark, in the President's Office. And don't think you're eating there unnoticed. Everybody knows that. That's why I want to end up with another folk wisdom: "The hat burns on thieves."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u332	Terjehohin, follow him. Teriochin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u333	Good afternoon. Sergey Teryohin, Reforms and Orders, Victor Yushchenk faction, Our Ukraine. I'd like to make a few statements. Thesis one is a replica once again, not a performance. Simonenko, unlike the regular members of his faction, is completely my knowledge of Kuchma's money. The comism of the situation is that I have the right documents. And if you don't like it, go to court, and then we'll publish these things. That's the first one. Thesis two. The main plagiarist of the Klukovsky bill, according to former adviser Kuchma, was removed from the elections in 1998 for spending too much time abroad, and now the main lobbyist is selling the nadr and the socialist party's pits, I think, is working on yesterday's project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u334	Please, Dusty, follow him, Grigorovich. I'm the only one I'm asking, dear colleagues, I don't give a word to anyone from the rostrum anymore. Peter Alexiyovich, please take your seat, not for a replica. Grigorovich, please. Grigorovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u335	The powder from the rostrum, everyone else, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u336	Dear listeners, dear friends! Today’s discussion is a powerful testimony that a proportional system is not a protection of citizens’ rights. Because 20 percent of those who voted in favour of the Communists are now betrayed. Betrayed by the national deputies led by Peter Simonenko, who, under agreement with the regime, vote Communists today try to remain in power. The real opposition factions are the factions of our Ukraine and the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. And in a year and a half that they're trying to destroy us, we're demonstrating that they're not going to succeed. Unlike you who have spent 10 years in Parliament, we have managed to create tens of thousands of jobs and provide hundreds of millions of dollars to the State Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. To see that, not by word, but by deed the opposition in Ukraine, the real opposition will prevail!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u337	Grigorovich, please. Turn on the stand mike, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u338	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenko faction "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian voters! Unfortunately, I did not have the privilege of working in the government of Victor Yushchenk, who finally paid off all the debts that previous governments had accumulated by carrying out the program, including the communists that the government had withdrawn. I served as deputy minister in 1996-97 when I was standing at the mouths of the Ministry of Family and Youth. At the time, I wrote a statement that I was refusing the salary of a deputy, a car, because my people did not receive wages. I would like the communists to take a copy of this statement, to study it well, because all the trouble in Ukraine is that the first and second presidents, members of the CK of that party, and I have a member of the CK of this party behind me. And as you doubt that there are dividends, look at the Communist latches, at their huge, billy - shaped gold badges, and see how the gold of the party finally appeared to you, breaking through the asphalt of betrayal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u339	So, your honor, have you exchanged? So it's me. Dear colleagues, I'm about to announce the voting procedure. We'll work with you next. Because we have the Inadmissibility Regulation. We'll be the first to vote on the Inadmissibility Order. After that, we will vote all the bills in the order we discussed them. We will vote in accordance with the Rules until we adopt them. We're going to get the first bill, so we're not going to vote anymore. And so, dear colleagues, I put to the vote draft decree number 4285-4P, Bill Gabrieluka, Bichkov, Kozachenka "On the Unadmissibility of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies", registration number 4285-4. [[16:47:29]] For - 14 The decision on "Inadmissibility" was made by 14 votes in favour, i.e. no decision taken. Let's see the factions. That's right. I'll give you a wire. "Our Ukraine" - 3, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 0, Industrial Party and "The Dirty Ukraine" - 2, Social Democrats - 0, "The People's Government" - 4, Socialists - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, Agrarian Party - 0, "National Choice" - 2, NDP - 2, non-fractional - 2, sorry, 0, I'm sorry, I'm also a little tired. The draft law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, registration number 4285, is being voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:48:46]] For -27. Not accepted. It is based on the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies, registration number 4285-4, reported by Rudzikowski. Based on the base. I'm sorry. Please take a vote. I'm sorry. It is based on the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies, registration number 4285-2, reported by Viktor Lavrentiovich Musiak. [[16:49:49]] For -70 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" is 3, "The Regions of Ukraine" is 55, the Communist faction is 0, the Party of Industrialists and "The Dirty Ukraine" is 2, the Social Democrats are 0, "The People's Government" is 4, the Socialists and the Deminitatives are 0, the Block of Timoshenko is also 0, the Agrarian Party is 2, the People's Choice is 3, the NDP is 0, the non-fractional is 1. It is up to the vote on the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. [[Registration number 4285-4]] This bill was reported by Rudzikowski. Please vote. [[16:50:55]] For -262 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 51, Communists - 58, Industrial Party - 36, Social Democrats - 38, People's Government - 13, Socialists - 19, Democratic Initiatives - 11, Block Timoshenko - 0, Agrarian Party - 13, People's Choice - 12, NDP - 9, Non-Frakation -2. Dear colleagues, I'm still drawing your attention to one procedure. We took as a basis in the first reading of draft law registration number 4285-4, which was amended here by Alexander Alexandrovich. They took away the date by which the proposals were to be made. I ask to vote in favour of Decree 4285-4p1, which is passed by the co-chairs of the Temporary Special Commission of Gavrish and Moroz. "Adopt Ukraine's draft law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, registration number 4285-4, introduced by Ukraine's national deputies Rudzkowski, Klukkowski, Olujk, Ponomarenko." We voted that with you. And the second point. "To entrust the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, to prepare a draft bill for second reading, taking into account proposals made by subjects of the law of the legislative initiative." Please vote on this ruling. [[16:52:59]] To -260. I'll take the order. Out of procedure, please, Karmazin, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u340	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Now we've shown again that we broke the Rules. And I'd like you to make a decision about the change that was envisaged to protect the National MP's right to make proposals. Since we have not seen these twenty - five proposals that have been amended, our time, which will be scheduled to amend the laws, will go only as soon as we are familiar with these amendments. We didn't get our hands on them. By this time of 16.53 and the end of these raped men welcome again with the March 8 women’s festival, you deserve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u341	Please, Rudzkowski. Dear colleagues! Rudzkowski, please. By the time I turn the card on, Yuri Anatoliovich, we accepted the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u342	Adam Ivanovich, I propose you put the whole question to the vote. If there are no objections to national MPs with my amendments, considering that we worked on this law for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u343	Dear colleagues! We work with you in such a regime that we then vote the law in general when there are no objections. There's a denial, so we don't generally put it. I repeat, you and I adopted Bill 4285-4 on our first reading, giving the commission to the committee. Terjehochin would like to make an offer, please. TSK, TSK. Please, Teryochina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u344	Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I remind you of the way in which a decree is adopted in accordance with the Rules. It is first taken as a basis, followed by changes, and subsequent decisions are taken. You have declared, Adam Ivanovich, that we have accepted this decree as a basis. It is now in accordance with the Rules that every MP has the right to add any addition or deletion from this decree. So I would add this addition and ask him to vote on this decision as a whole on the basis of this bill. A supplement is to submit for consideration by the Supreme Council in January 2005. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-03-05-m0.u345	I'm voting on the proposal of national deputy Teryochin. Please make up your mind. Grigorovich, don't break the Constitution. [[16:56:31]] For -47 So the offer is not accepted. I repeat, you and I have taken as a basis in the first reading of draft law registration number 4285-4. And they gave the commission to a temporary special commission. Dear colleagues, you and I have worked hard today. Once again, on your behalf, I am truly in good health with the Eighth March, our charming half of society. Let them be happier than we were today. This evening’s session is closed. I'm reporting that national MPs are working on committees, factions and groups on March 9-14. On March 10th, there will be parliamentary hearings "To sum up the holding in Ukraine in 2003 of people with disabilities". [[on the provision of social legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities]] The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on March 16, 2004. Good luck.
