ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, we're registering. [[10:00:24]] A total of 421 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Igor Vasilovich Chelombitka. Let's welcome our colleague with the day of the angel. In accordance with your suggestions, let me inform you about the summary of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2005, which was adopted and sent to the Committee on Budgeting for First Reading; 59 judges were appointed and two judges were released; four bills were adopted, one of which is of great social importance - on the establishment of rural medicine, this is registration number 2353; one bill was not adopted; one bill was adopted in the first reading; one bill was postponed; 17 draft regulations were discussed; a total of six were not adopted. Yes, let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mobcano Volodymyr Petrovic, from the MP faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and his membership in the party's "One Ukraine". Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. The following questions came from Ukrainian national deputies: People’s Deputies — Shibko, Harmash, Semenyuk, and others. A total of 9 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the pardon of Ivanchenk, sentenced to 15 years of imprisonment on charges of the Vitrenco assassination in 1999. I'm voting on support for the request. Please vote. [[10:04:18]] For-76 Request not supported. Panels of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine in connection with the delay of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by implementing the Presidential Decree of July 6, 2004 on the reorganization of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency situations and on the protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the State Committee on the effects of the Chernobyl disaster. [[FIGHT, FIGHT, STRANGE, AND OTHERS. Total 7 deputies]] I'm voting on support for the request. [[10:05:07]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine on corruption and violations of current legislation by the Ministers of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. [[MIGOVICH, BALOGA, VERNIGORA]] Please determine whether to support the request. [[10:05:41]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Vassila Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the systematic inactivity of the head of the Middleman District State Administration of Kharkiv, Mikli Žernokliev. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the systematic perennial violation of Chernobyl legislation by the local and central executive authorities in part of the extra-secondary housing of the multi-child family of the disabled, Prosco, residents of the town of Vistok Kyiv region. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the exploration of fuel during the autumn agricultural work. Vassil NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the State system of labour inspectors. Anatolya KLIMINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of local budget autonomy and for the establishment of appropriate income sources. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to find out the motives for Romania's unlawful attack on the territory of Ukraine in the area of Snakes Island and to hinder the Romanian border guards from the Ukrainian construction channel Danube Black Sea. Vladimir ZUBANOV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the systematic breakdown of the heating season in The city of Zugres of the Donetsk Region. Oleg PANASOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the renewal of the work of the closed-circuit association “Mikitov Firehouse” in Gorlovka Donetsk region. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of passes on the Ukrainian-Hungarian state border. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to provide adequate municipal services to residents of the village of Brilovka of Tsurupina. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the irresponsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in resolving the issue of improving the living conditions of the disabled as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and ignoring the Government's mandate for this matter by the officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. Leonidas SERGEANT to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on strengthening the social protection of the families of military personnel who died in the fighting in Afghanistan. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the abuse of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President Viktor Yanukovič of Ukraine, for his office as President of Ukraine, for his office and for his intentional failure to make copies of court decisions and other documents on his former crimes and crimes. Igora TARASJUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of an underwater pipeline to the Mariinian Spiritual Centre of the village of Zarvanica, which will also allow for the gasification of 15 localities in the Terebovlje region of Ternopil. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the delay in the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Regulation on the allocation of funds for investment projects and the gasification of population items in contravention of the Ukrainian Act “On the amendment of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004”. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for threats to Ukraine's national security in connection with the dissolution of state property in particular by officials of the State Shipbuilding Company Black Sea Shipping, the sale of the only state-owned Ukrainian specialised ship “Marmara-1” at a reduced cost of questionable debts and improper execution of parliamentary requests on the matter. John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the Cabinet of Ministers for the completion of the construction of the National Art Museum of Ukraine. WALLERY OF THE LEBEDIV to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the payment of money savings to Ukrainian citizens MICHELLA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to simplify the procedure for acquiring Ukrainian citizenship by former compatriots who live in Ukraine for a long time and who are independent of them, have the citizenship of the Russian Federation. Vladimir ĆENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the gasification of the village of Bilousovka Drabovsky district, village of Wośniesenski Zolotani district, the construction of the water supply in the town of Špola Cherkaskie district. Group of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, on the official definition of the precise date of the establishment of the city of Nicopol and the need for appropriate measures to preserve the historic and archaeological heritage of the city. [[KOVAL, ZVARICH, DENMARK, AND OTHERS Total 7 deputies]] Anatolia GREZEVA to Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Kljeva of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the violation of legislation concerning the payment of salaries to employees of “Slavutikatomenergobud”. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the results of the investigation of the tragic death of the director of the National Renaissance Centre of Stepan Bandera, deputy of the Ternopil District Council, head of the “Our Ukraine” faction in the Ternopil District Council of John Haudida. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the artificially delaying the criminal trial of the theft of budgetary resources by officials of the Dniprožinski Mesquikonkam. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in investigating officers of the law enforcement agencies of the Volin area of the murder of senior lieutenant of the Ritchuk militia. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of human rights by law enforcement authorities, the judiciary and the Ukrainian procurator’s office. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abolition of the law enforcement authorities of the region of Cherniewec concerning entrepreneurs of the municipal trading complex “Kalinówsk market” of the city of Chernivci. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of members of the liner department of the main railway station in Kiev. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal activity of officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, aimed at subjugating the Government’s administration of matters, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine and the Kyiv City State Administration, to alienate property and land of the Kyiv Military List of the name Boden. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory state of compliance with the land lease legislation in the “Victoria” village of Gigaylovka in the district of Trostyanec in Suma. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure of the prosecutor’s office to carry out its duties to protect the constitutional rights of residents of the Surikova street, 5 in Kiev. Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of electoral and commercial accounts for the “NIL” village of Fursa Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district with rations for renting land. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney - General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding the identification of offences in the actions of officials of internal affairs and the State Tax Inspectorate of the Vinick region. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of land and property owners by the leaders of the closed-circuit company “Zora” of the village of Ravnie in the Herzene district of Herson. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the legality of the use of State budget funds in the course of the pipeline work to the village of Mikolayevka in the Dnipropetrov region. Ms. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding formalism in the examination of applications and appeals by the deputy of the Lutsky City Council of the Procurator’s Office of the Volinsk Region. Gregory OMELZENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, on the legal assessment of the activities of the Civilian Police in connection with the violation by the investigating police of articles 8, 19, 41, 60, 92, 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the presence in the activities of the officers of the criminal investigation of criminal offences, the responsibility for which is provided for in articles 364, 365, 366 of the Criminal Code. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation by the leaders of the collective enterprise Vasilk Skin Company of the property rights of the founders of the enterprise. [[co-owners]] Roman TKAČA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Abaziu Rural Council of the Poltav district of Poltava to distribute the household of Sopak. Mr. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizen Frolová. The branch of the Chief Prosecutor - General of Ukraine for an inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal for a procurator’s review of the illegal placement of advertising on official State documents. Mr. Mikoli KRUGLOVA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the use of measures taken by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding Ukrainian national deputies who were guilty of road traffic accidents. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the current legislation of the decision of the Ivano-Frankov oblast of 14 September 2004 on the transfer of forest land to the Jaremcan City Council, the Transvirnian, Dolinsky, Rožnetów district to private land users. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, on the use of urgent measures to avoid forcing a “one candidate” vote from the power of Viktor Yanukovich in the Symferopol region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, establishing similar facts in other regions of Ukraine. VICTOR BORSCHEVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the false replies of the Dnipropetrovsk district prosecutor’s authorities to parliamentary appeals on a forged Boltenka case. Alexander GOLUBA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the protection of property of the workers of the Pioner Garden Society of Herson. , Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Minister of the Environment of Ukraine regarding the financial promotion of the construction of a solid household waste range for the needs of the city of Gola Dorist in the Herson region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the violation of article 105 of the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of the President of Ukraine” by the Head of Malovski district government administration and the operation of the Malovski District Department of Internal Affairs of the Kirovograd Region. LILIA GRIGOROVIC to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding violations of the constitutional rights of military personnel and the failure to pay them financial compensation. VALLERY OF THE LEBEDEVS to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction of the reply to the parliamentary request that there be a queue near the diplomatic and consular representations of foreign states in Ukraine. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need for immediate repairs to the Brilova District Hospital in the region of Turupina, as well as the provision of gas and ambulance services to the hospital. VICTOR OF THE DESCRIPTION TO THE U.S. Department of Health for the provision of SATVA COMPACT, a dental clinic in the Žitomir district. MICILI RUDKOVSKI to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Chernigiv District Administration, Chernigiv City Council for the purpose of eliminating the branch of Children’s Hospital No. 1 of Chernigov. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the inclusion of the State-owned “Rwenkinartracite” company in the state-owned enterprise “Lugansk Coal Company”. [[ASTROV-SUMILOV, GARPOČKA, TURMANOV]] Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine on the problems of transport security for veterans of the village of Highpapil in the Herson region. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy regarding the mechanism for payment of debts on wages to state enterprises in Ukraine. JANUARY to the head of the Simferopol City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for failure to implement the decision of the Simferopol Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the executive committee of the Simferopol City Council. To the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for violations committed in civil matters of citizens, judges of the Isiaslav District Court of the Hmelnicka District. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the formal review by the Kirov local court of the city of Kirovgrad of a civil case for the term of the citizen of Ephraim. Vladimir PETRENCA to the city’s Kiev head regarding the inadequate provision of shelters for the inhabitants of the district of Podil, Kiev, with hot water. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the identification of the location of the prizes of the citizen of Malarczuk transferred to the pension fund of the Nemiriv district of Winnitsk. Anatolia GREZEVA to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the completion of the privatization of housing in the territory of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine’s Main Astronomical Observatory. Alexia KOZACZANKA to the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources for violations by the Odessa City Legislative Council of Ukraine in the provision of a business with foreign investment “MIHANIKI Ukrain” in the rental of land on the coast of the Black Sea. Leonidas SERGEANTA is acting as head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the use of settlement arrangements with the shareholders of the “Premierbank” of Dnipropetrovska. SERGY HEAD to the deputy head of the Kiev City State Administration regarding the delay in responding to a parliamentary appeal to establish a light - light object at the intersection of the streets of Vladimir and Saxegan. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of creating a concert for the development and production of Antonov aircraft. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs for Information on the transfer of the "AN-140" aircraft to Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine for the conduct of the pre-election campaign by Kharkiv State Aviation Company. Anatolia Matvienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation in the High City Council. Valentina Seminouk to the head of the Supreme Council. Yeah, that's different. So, honourable colleagues, today, there are parliamentary requests from the faction "Our Ukraine" -17, Communist factions - 17, the factions "Regions of Ukraine" - 5, the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine - 1, the factions of the party "One Ukraine" - 1, the factions of the political party "Trudova Ukraine" - 6, the Socialist Party of Ukraine - 10, the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko - 9, the Alliance - 2, the groups "Centre" - 1, and the non-fractional - 2, all 73 requests. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take another 30 minutes to the national MPs. Please, the word Bespallian has to prepare Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u2	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear colleagues, in the worst traditions of gangster films yesterday, it seems that the prosecutor's office, but the men in black masks raided the High Town Council and brutally detained the High Town head of Kimlac. Before that, the village head Kozina Sparrow was detained in the same ganglike manner. So, our committee and the Supreme Council, we ask, first of all, to release these prisoners immediately, who are not allowed to rob Ukraine. And secondly, I think that I would like to consider this part of my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine and to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, because such actions by the Attorney General's Office pose a threat to Ukraine's national security. In the second part of my speech, I'd like to go to all the pensioners that Kuchmi-Medvedczuk-Janukovich team robbed first, and now he's cheating. It's very good that from the pressure of our Ukraine, the other opposition forces, the government finally admitted that it had hidden, stolen money and intended to give it to the pensioners. But it's bad enough that instead of rising pensions, he only installs a month-long address aid, that is, a fool. This address book. Well, that's better than nothing, but it's only for one or two months. It's very bad that from next year it's going to be taken into account in granting subsidies to people, and that's how this money is going to be returned. Of course, the faction "Our Ukraine" protects always the real way of pensioners, not just from electoral actions, so yesterday in the Supreme Council a bill was introduced and registered by members of the faction "Our Ukraine" Valeria Assadchev and Petra Prashenko on pension increases, i.e. pension increases -- it's not an address aid, it's something that can't be subtracted, it's something that's constantly being given to increase pensions to a living minimum. In this way, we demand that the faction of Victor Yushchenk's bloc require that the next sessionary day, which will follow this session, be reviewed and pensions increased, especially since the government's draft budget for this pitiful targeted assistance does not include funds. This means that the government plans to provide targeted assistance just two months before the elections and only in quantities that do not even cover price increases. I think that pensioners should know who's cheating on them and who's really worried about them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two other MPs. It's bad that you're not giving it the right way, not the secretarial way, so sometimes it's confusing. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to keep order. A further inquiry was made by the National Deputy Tomenka to the Attorney General of Vasiliev regarding the urgent use of prosecutorial response measures in connection with the spread of separate national television channels in Ukraine of unreliable information aimed at manipulating public awareness of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As well as the representative's request to the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General for violations of the language rights of citizens and humiliation of the national honour and dignity of the Ukrainians. Please give the floor to the national MP Tomenko. He's got Ratushniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u4	Mikola Tomenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Victor Yushchenka's block is concerned by Leonid Kuchma's repeated statement that there will be "dirty" or "dirty" elections in Ukraine. We see this as a direct call by the President of Ukraine to state officials and law enforcement agencies to make such a dirty choice. We think it's an unacceptable thing, especially as today's law enforcement agencies have long been acting as authorities and doing everything they can to ensure such a dirty election. Every day we have information either about the beating of agitators or about the removal of newspapers or about other ways to prevent election campaigning. Yes, on September 23 in the Odessa region in the village of Killia, the agitator Viktor Yushchenka Kovalov Svetlana Alexanderov was beaten. So far, the police are not responding adequately, and there are more and more of these examples. We are well aware that there is no way out of power today rather than to go into a tightening situation with the election campaign. Today, according to sociologists, the popularity rating of Victor Yashchenk and Alexander Moroz is increasing seriously, while the popularity rating of Viktor Janukovitch is falling. That's why we appreciate the statement by the head of the electoral headquarters, Sergey Tihypak, that it's nothing to worry about, that Januković's ratings will increase, as we will pay off from the state funds a grant from Ukrainian citizens, as an attempt to bribe citizens who are directly being punished by the Ukrainian Criminal Code. And I am convinced that the Central Electoral Commission will respond adequately to such statements that are made by the leaders of the Yanukovic electoral campaign. Realizing that the election campaign can't be won, the people who are running the Yanukovich electoral campaign are now thinking about their employment. There's been allegations of who's going to be in the job. I'm officially saying that Victor Yushchenka's Block will find a job for everyone, and if there's a question about Victor Yanukovich's employment, we know that now that he's head of the State Department's retirement age, we're willing to recommend him for this job, and Sergio Tihypka is going to be offered the position of Press Secretary Janukovich, he's doing well with them. So once again, I would like to calm down the power and the President to stop the dirty character of the electoral campaign, because we will do everything and I am convinced, our colleagues from the opposition factions and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not allow the dirty election campaign of Ukraine to be falsified. You know how the authorities don't want the Supreme Council's monitoring commission to work. I have asked the Attorney General today for questions, where false, false information has been distributed that the Ministry of Justice has allegedly declared illegal the work of this commission. Our faction requires the commission to work actively and to inform Parliament by next week. Once again, Victor Yushchenka's Block will do its utmost to ensure that the elections are conducted in accordance with the law and in accordance with the will of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u5	Please, Ratchet. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u6	Deputies! Almost everyone! Although not all of them are involved. I wanted to pay attention to the disgraceful phenomenon that is now taking place in the state when the bandit is in charge of the district administration of Zakarpatta from the SDPU, the Prime Minister and the law enforcement authorities are not responding to the gang's capture of power in Mukachev, the taking of business, the series of killings and total racketeering of all entrepreneurial structures in the area. At the same time, the head of the city of High Town is arrested for nothing. I would also like to address you to stop this disgraceful phenomenon and to slander the left and right of each other. You're divorced by the President's administration, and because of what Red did to me yesterday, I'm sorry about the state. Today, Yushchenka is being "wet" as in 1999 "wet" Moroz, because he is a real pretender and he has no competitors electorally, with all due respect for Yanukovic. Also, the procedure declared treason by SDPU(o) was widely publicized. I wanted to ask Mr. Kravchuk, who betrayed the Company, who, from drinking in the Whitelands, got the whole state, did he not betray the Company? I wanted to ask how did they get 19 mandates in the election and now they run the state, and where did they get the other 20 from? I wanted to ask you if I betrayed you and Blochin's Company. Did Sandler, Galiev, Yaroslavsky "Our Ukraine" betray them who went to Gavrish? I'd like to ask what situation in the Party of Regions do they not have? Why don't you all leave these mandates? Who's next to Gavrish today, next to Hubsky, is the SDPU satellite? No one calls them traitors, reverends, because this is now provided and permitted by the legislation and political morality of this Supreme Council, which is wiped out by anyone, starting with the President and ending with footsteps and all that. I also wanted to pay attention, if we agree to do so, then we will be asking the Supreme Council about the genocide of the activities of the SDPU(o) in Ukraine, for which the Ukrainian people have paid 10 million and they will be recognized as the successor of the CPD. About the budget. I'd like to ask you a question. If the growth of the economy is 13 percent, reverend Victor Fedorovich, explain, I just want us to understand everyone and the people of Ukraine, how could there be 110 billion if there were 60. So 30 billion were hidden, so the pension of January 1st of this year could be tripled from January 1st. And it's good that we're doing this now, but it's good that we've done this since January 1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u7	But, dear fellows, let's not get fooled by 110 billion -- it's not a state budget, it's a budget. This year’s government budget was 60, saying 110 twice. That's not true. It's not true. 110 is the budget. The state budget is only 80 billion. Yes, please, Rodionov. Behind him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u8	A faction of the Communists of the Rodion. Please give the word of a comrade in the faction of Novak Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u9	Please, Novak, follow him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u10	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Today, the people of Ukraine are constantly talking about the record rate of economic development. Why can't people feel it? Where is the work of all the people going? Why does it not make it easier for a simple person to live? Everything happens exactly the opposite. Prices are rising, with record for food products, for services, for fuel, for medicines. According to modest estimates, up to 50 billion dollars in shadow, which means that they are not working to solve the social problems in Ukraine. At wage levels, we are twice as far away from Russia as we are from Belarus, Kazakhstan. Ukraine’s production volumes are being increased by raw materials, metal, chemistry, or raw materials. And then there's the debt on the salary. The government pushes itself into the chest so that the Gul goes all over Europe that the debt on the salary will be paid off. And they're due soon. True, no one can say when the next time comes. And will the debtors live to see him? None of them are talking. Let's face it, Ukraine is one of the poorest countries in Europe. A lot of people fight for survival, and not paying their wages is a crime against their own people, and they have to be held accountable. Let me give you an example. For four years they have been fighting for their rights by former workers, former sugar mills and Old Ones!Oh, my God!!!, Peanuts. Four years ago he was privatized. Privatization was, of course, carried out under the patronage of local authorities. The owners bought the business, as stipulated by the law, with all debts, including half a million debts on wages, and the company began. The factory was sold to each other, to the third owner, but no one ever returned the debts to the people. At the end of the day, the equipment was cut, put on scrap metal, and I don't think it's without the knowledge of the district government, and people were never paid off. For four years, people have sought the truth, and they cannot succeed, and there are no guilty ones. But there's a law that we're all talking about here. Where is he? Who answered that question? I think if 500,000 today were stolen from an oligarch, there would be a prosecutor and everyone else, and if half a million people were suddenly stolen from a few hundred poor people, that would be a criminal offense. We Communists are our presidential candidate, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, in which we emphasize: Ukraine needs an honest government governed by a law that honors its people. The government needs to be restored to the people of Ukraine; people do not let themselves be deceived by elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Zibenko, followed by Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhović, a colleague of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u13	Please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u14	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The closer the election day, the more violent the presidential candidates are, especially the two Mafia clans. Every day, the media gives false information about presidential ratings: Yushchenko and Yanuković. Meanwhile, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, who is too underrated, will be shown. What is the purpose of this lie? Everybody knows. In fact, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka's rating is high all over Ukraine. For example, a secret survey of 5.5 thousand people was conducted in Kirovgrad, in five areas. And the result is next. For Petra Mikolaiovich Simonenka - 47.8 percent, for Moroz - 16, for Yushchenka - 9, for Yanukovic - 2.4, for Vitrenko - 2.1. So you can't go far by cheating and lying. And how the power structures work, supporting the candidate from power. Sadly, today they live, not under the law, but under the direction of the commander - in - command, who is accustomed to engaging in the political struggle of all — the army, the prosecutor’s office, the police, the tax office. But whoever hears me needs to know that neither the police nor the tax service, nor the law enforcement services in general, will vote as representatives of the Mafia clans. For, as they themselves say, they are fed up with this dog’s life, where ten servants have one hat, one form, and there are no conditions for normal work and living. Recently, there was to be a candidate for presidents, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, in the Malovis region. Simple people awaited this day as something unusual. But the head of Schulg’s administration and the authorized Strait did everything they could to prevent such a meeting from taking place. They even announced the Saturday of September 4 when Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko was to be working day. And Danucius’s head was ordered to take away the rostrum that was installed in the central square and leave the city powerless so that the microphones would not work. And in the village of Velika Vizka, where Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and the electorate were also to meet, the letter - bearer was instructed by the Chief of Post Office of Spak to go from house to house, declaring that the meeting with Peter Simonenko would not take place. But despite these gang methods and the lies they were spreading, the mass meeting of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka with the voters in Kirovgrad was still taking place. You know, powerful men, your power is not just in domains, threats, persecution of disagreeable people and parties, in forging elections and referendums. Remember, in serious politics, fraud was never considered a sign of strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Anisimov, the Communist faction. After him, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u16	Anisimov, 30 constituency, Dniprodijnsk, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The power of the anti - national regime is a lie, and it feeds on it. During the election period, this lie is transformed into counterfeiting electoral documents, pre-election promises, or falsification of voting results. Threats, blackmails, and other similar things can be added. I recall that in past elections, Mr. Kuchma was voted by almost a hundred percent of the psychiatric hospitals, correctional colonies, or prisons, and more than a hundred percent of the population in some western parts of Ukraine. Preparations for falsification of the elections are now complete. A campaign to collect signatures for the so - called sole candidate of power has already been completed in enterprises, government agencies, executive bodies. There was a short conversation - either you sign or you won't work. At present, local executive authorities have already completed their work on the formation of district election committees. And I didn't say anything, just the local executive, because in my 30th constituency, the territorial electoral commission is headed by a man who was a little over a year ago still secretary to the Mesquikon. There are only 11 trusted persons in the district, and 22 of the 22 submitted to the district constituencies. Well, that's not enough. The head of the electoral commission has no right to perform these duties, as in the decision of the CEC and the recognition of the head of the territorial electoral commission, and the identity of the person’s passports. And this applies to two more members of the territorial election committee. But that is not all. On September 20, at a meeting of the territorial electoral commission, the head of this commission, Mr. Painton, had to sit on a panel of two unknown persons who did not have the credentials of the members of this commission. They took part in the vote. So the floor of the election papers was made. I'm going to the Central Election Commission to get to the bottom of the disgraceful facts I've given. I'm calling on the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General's Office to file a criminal case for the fact that the electoral documents are on the floor of the head of the territorial election committee of the 30th constituency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u17	Please, Taran, follow Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! The Russian Attorney General's Office made an unprecedented decision in international practice concerning the arrest of Yulia Timoshenko. We have no doubt that this decision by the Russian prosecutor's office was taken at the request of Leonid Kuchma. So our Ukrainian prosecutor's office, which has already filed a number of petitions against Julia Timoshenko, offerings to the foolish and unwarranted, has now turned to the brother's attorney's office, because in itself, they say, "a thin intestine." But this decision by the Russian prosecutor's office is not only provocative and totally unfounded, it is also an insult to Ukraine as an independent state. You can imagine how Russia would have reacted if the Ukrainian Attorney's Office had decided, say, to arrest some Russian faction leader in the State Duma, or not to prove to God that Putin himself? There is no doubt that the Russian M.E.S. would have responded harshly and unequivocally, and it would have done the right thing, as would the United States, for example, if the Russian prosecutor's office had made a decision, say, about Bush's arrest. This is absurd, but the point is that the authorities want the Russian prosecutor's office. With the hands of the Russian prosecutor's office, strike against the Victoria Yushchenka and Julia Timoshenko bloc, and in front of everything in Yulia Timoshenko, whose speeches are being gathered today in hundreds of thousands of areas. And this provocation stands in one row with the political leaders in Ukraine, such as the killing of Viacheslav Chernobyl, the poisoning of Victor Yushchenk, and now these attempts to abandon Julia Timoshenko. And our authority that ordered the murder of Guy Gongadze is now ordering provocation against Timoshenko. And it does this because this power is powerless, that power feels its agony, that the time of this power is coming to an end. And even these poll ratings that jump on Medvedchuk TV are convincingly evidence of this. Yes, today, Yushchenka’s official rating is ahead of Kuchma Yanuković’s candidate by more than nine percent. And that bribe that Janukovic threw to the pensioners when the government first hid billions of dollars in the budget, when the government privatized the best businesses at no cost, and now, from the bar shoulders for two months, he's throwing hundreds of dollars at the pensioners, he's not helping this government, it's definitely, the time of this power is coming to an end. But the Russian prosecutor’s office could deal with other, more worthy facts. For example, where the money was shared by Ukrainian investors who were transferred to the Central Bank in Russia to Moscow after the collapse of the Union. But we do not transfer the actions of the Russian prosecutor’s office to all Russia, with which we need to strengthen friendship, mutual cooperation. And I'm going to remind you that just when the prime minister was Yushchenko, when the vice-premier was Julia Timoshenko, that's when the traffic with Russia increased dramatically, because it wasn't about the prosecutor's affairs, it was about the normal cooperation of the two great states.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u19	The people's deputy Bondarenko has the floor. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u20	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, block of Viktor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine". Dear friends, we have recently witnessed interesting developments in Ukraine. They are related to the personnel of the industrial complex, the personnel of the forestry services, and many other areas. A special category of Ukrainian citizens, the so - called Donetsks, now established where they do not have the appropriate qualifications, knowledge, and experience. If we look at the forest management of Ukraine and our roads, we will notice that thousands of oak cubes and other valuable species are cut down in the summer and are transported somewhere. Obviously, the government has only a reserve of time until the elections. And that's why it's done very quickly. We all know and have witnessed those personnel movements that touched the forest complex. I would like to say that a similar type of decision is made in Kiev in factories. The Arsenal has replaced the director without any reason -- the Arsenal is in the center of Pecherska and it's important to demolish the plant and build more housing there. But when it touched Ukraine's aviation complex, which included the Kiev Aviation Company, Antonova, Kharkiv Aviation Plant, Vinnicki and Kyiv Air Safety Plants, the Sic Engine and the U.S. U.S. Department, which is a sector that includes 90,000 employees, a powerful Ukrainian branch that now leads in a number of positions in the world. And when the Donetsks started planting footage there, especially at the Kyiv factory, they brought an Enakiyev warehouse that now manages this enterprise, picking up, among other things, pieces of land, including a factory, to build housing for those who are being transported with the Donetsk Packs. All the dormitories and rest bases of this company have been killed by so-called middle-class experts only from Donetsk. More than 170 young professionals who do not have the proper qualifications are accused of being in Kiev and so forth. But when it went to the same factory, you could look at these things more or less at ease. But recently, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and First Deputy Prime Minister Kluva made a clear agreement with Kuchma that could lead to the destruction of the aviation complex, because it all boils down to the only, so-called, complex that is obviously under the guidance of this Donetsk outpost, which runs the airline. It's about creating an airline that includes everything. But the fight isn't about aviation, it's not about aviation, it's about the Hostommel Terminal, where you can bring the goods for the acquisitions that are in the aviation complex today. I have on my hands the address of the NTK working group Antonov on this subject, and I want to say that the labor team of this famous designer office will not allow it, and we will not let it happen. There is today a representative of this team, Alexander Bondarczuk, among the communists. I think others will appreciate the dainty clan's encroachment on those pieces of the economy that are still unexploited today. I think we're not going to let that happen, and we're going to be asked how the official is going to the prosecutor's office and to the president of Ukraine, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u21	The word has the national deputy Nadrag. He will be followed by Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u22	Dear Vassili, Lugansk Region, Union MP. I want to focus on one problem that we face all the time. To this day, unfortunately, we very often communicate with people who cannot get their wages. And today, when we talk about the need to pay back wages, I would like to highlight the real nature of public participation in these issues. Why? Because when a court decides to oblige the employer to pay, the situation often arises that there is no money in the account, no income and, accordingly, no, no, no and no. And our MPs with you, who are sent to the executive service, I don't talk about business leaders anymore, are very often dependent. On my part, I began to understand, and who performed this function under the law on behalf of the State. It is clear that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does so, and even more precisely, the State labour inspectors of the State Department of Labour are responsible for the enforcement of labour law, in other words, the Master of Labour. What is this organization, how does it exist? It exists within the Ministry of Labour; it exists under a regulation approved by the Cabinet in January 2003 and must deal with these issues accordingly; it must be controlled; it must be provided by the State. But it turns out that, unfortunately, there's a lot of declarant here. To date, there is no legal and methodological unit in Gosnadzor, i.e. no one actually determines what to do and how to do. Second moment. To date, even individual workers are not included in the fact that whole units in cities with district divisions are like Lugansk. Mariupol, Harykov, Donetsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Odessa, Lviv and others, where the majority of debtors are in general and concentrated. That's why a parliamentary request is being sent today, and we've heard it with you, so to speak. I sent it to the Prime Minister, and I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers decree 2005 should provide for, and rightly so, that the Government should provide for the restructuring of the Master of Labour system so that it can be effective so that the states will appear there, so that the units that will work with debtors in debt repayment will be established and that they will be able to follow order in this area at all. Deeply convinced that the establishment of order is not only a matter of wage debt, it is also a matter of social insurance, pension, unemployment, temporary disability and all the rest that the State has declared in the Constitution should and should implement in the form of specific changes in the executive branch, in particular in the labour manager's system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u23	Please, Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u24	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I want to announce a statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Its contents are as follows. The poisoning of Viktor Yushchenk was not just for the cynical statements of Attorney General Vasiliev. Unfortunately, however, there is no less cynical reason for a number of people on the team of the most injured candidate to the presidents. Yesterday, on the 5th channel that belongs to the structures of our Ukraine, the national deputy, Eugene Chervonenko, made a wonderful alibi for Yanukovich, Medvedchuk and their companies. He claimed that Yushchenko’s poisoning was not at all good for Yanukovich, Medvedchuk, and Kuchmi, but for Alexander Moroz. For 10 years, Alexander Moroz, Alexander Moroz, was accused of all the deaths of professional charities. Some of them are now buried, unfortunately, on the team of Viktor Andriovich Yushchenka. Their absurd speeches could not shake the confidence of the electorate, for Alexander Moroz’s personal integrity was not a scandal but a matter of particular concern. People like Tuggnibok, the Red One, want to build the Yushchenka electoral company on scandals and conflicts in spite of common sense. There is no political power behind them, but they set up provocations against other presidential candidates, against socialists, against communists, against voters who have not been elected and who are deterred by political filth. It seems to me that part of Yushchenka’s team is deliberately working on sub-dancing at Medvedchuk’s television channel. I don't want to believe that creating a scandalous image of Yashchenka is the strategy of all the leaders of his headquarters. I do not want to believe that Julia Timoshenko or Anatoly Grizzenko were able to offer Yushchenko a similar plan. Therefore, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the leadership of the election headquarters of Alexander Moroz requires the election headquarters of Victor Yushchenk to formally refute the obvious false information of the member of the Red Army, as well as the official apologies. Otherwise, a speech by the Socialist Red will be viewed as a deliberate breakdown by the Yuchenka team of fair elections agreements. We demand that this correction be made at the same time of air and in the same amount of time as the Redfish. The socialists do not gather for the joy of Red, Pekhovsek, and Helman to break up the scandal organized by Yushchenka’s associates. Neither Alexander Frost nor the MPs of the Socialist factions are going to play black under any circumstances. power and dialogue in society, using dirty profanity and personal insults. Morality and integrity should be higher than ambition. To someone who throws dirt at others, no one will shake his filthy hand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u25	In view of the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request for three minutes, please, Semenjuk Valentina.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u26	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. In connection with the appeal of the WAT "Clean Metals" labour force and the execution of the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the commission's respective powers, the Commission considered the illegal alienation of VAT assets, the "Clean Metals", the control package of which is state-owned. According to the outcome of this case and the ongoing follow-up to the decisions taken by the commission, I declare that there are sufficient documents on the committee to indicate that VAT Clean Metals assets have been illegally occupied by persons acting under the support and support of the State Property Fund and under the patronage of the Attorney General's Office. Such findings are based on the fact that court decisions have not yet been carried out that have recognized the illegal alienation of clean metals in 2001, when today’s city head of the city of Svetłovodska Kirovogradska oblast, and until his election he was the director of this enterprise, in fact, all the foundations of this plant have been transferred to a private enterprise. The property of a unique enterprise, which is strategically important for the economy and security of the State, has become private property, and the Attorney General's Office is contributing to these thefts. Repeated appeals and rulings of the courts, which support all of this, are addressed to the Attorney General’s Office. Under the patronage and under the support of the Attorney General’s Office, the alienation of state property, that is, the promotion and noncontroversy of these actions, has been transferred to private individuals. In addition, contrary to the 2001 ruling of the court, 2.4 million dollars were spent by the head of the newly appointed head rather than by the State Budget, but he donated to the commercial structure and the Attorney General’s Office did not even see the crime. I've personally handed over all the supporting documents, Vasilyev, but there's no answer. Therefore, this statement is considered to be a reference to the National Security Council, which controls the implementation of the President's decree of 9 February 2004 on the system of action for the elimination of the causes and conditions caused by crime and corruption, which is the first. Second, I would like to address the members of the Supreme Council. Today we actually have the Bermuda Triangle: Janukovic, Prime Minister, Donetsk, Party of Regions; the State Property Fund, Donetsk, Party of Regions; and the Attorney General's Office is also Donetsk. Either we tear up this Bermuda Triangle and we listen here to the Attorney General, or they're going to extend the state's property under their patronage, and we're not going to execute a decision of the Supreme Council, or a decision of the Special Supervisory Board, or a mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u27	Yes, respectable colleagues, the time spent announcing requests and speeches by national deputies, is exhausted. Let's move on. From the procedure? Let's move on to the discussion. You have a list of them today. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. One minute out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm asking you, because you're the Chairman of the session today, and it's been two weeks since the collapse of the majority, to make this official announcement -- first. Secondly, I demand that in connection with my repeated appeals, including from the rostrum with the queries that have been made, cancel the orders for most devices, first, rooms, cars, communications. The other one. I would like to point out that yesterday, an unprecedented act of the CLTC occurred when members of the so - called Brotherhood were attacked and beaten. This incident is a reason to issue weapons to the State Security Authority when people go there if they're unhappy. I'd like you to give the proper order to investigate errands.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, put your hands down, we'll implement our plan. As to the procedural issues raised by Yuri Carmazin I can't announce the release of the majority because no one has announced its creation. That's the first one. Others, others. The point is, according to the Rules, the MPs are informal, they are not registered, they have no rights — as stated in our Rules. Another point is when it comes to the MP faction or group. This is a union of deputies. With regard to the device and so on, and all of these questions related to what Yuri Carmazin said, I think it would be right if we gave a mandate to the Rules Committee to clarify these problems and at the next plenary meetings, first inform the Conciliation Council and then the National Deputies on Carmazin’s application. Yes, dear colleagues, I don't understand what anyone wants. Talk? Well, we've been talking for an hour. Ten seconds, come on, ten seconds. Three minutes, sign up. Please, on the board, Pinzenik behind him Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u30	Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is a good suggestion: to entrust the regulatory committee with informing the MPs of the "Most" name. I think it would be interesting for the MPs to know how many MPs there are in today's informal union, how interesting it is for us and for Ukrainian citizens, for our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u31	Please, Solomatin, follow him Grozev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u32	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, for technical reasons, was not asked by my request to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Bilocon for negligence and inaction by officials of some U.S. government lines in investigating the facts of the repeated horrors of the Russian Cultural Center in Lviv and the latest incident on the night of September 21st to September 22nd of this year. The IMF is demonstrating its complete inactivity in this regard, so I ask you to give me an assignment, and I will now hand over the printed material of my request to the secretariat to attach it to the requests made today and to send it to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u33	Please, Gruzev. He's behind him. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u35	Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u36	Last Friday, honourable national MPs in the official role of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic used my person as a person who seemed to support the presidential candidate from power. On the one hand, I feel sorry for Victor Fedorovich for the fact that no member of the "Regions" faction wanted to play this video. And on the other hand, I can see that they used the left-wing MP, not enough of that, in their opinion. Then I inform you, colleagues, and all the Ukrainian citizens that I am the first Secretary of the Black Collegiate Socialist Party to support Alexander Alexandrus Moroz. And we, the socialists, guarantee that the Frost in Montenegro will win, and so will we in Ukraine. And I recommend that Victor Fedorovich's headquarters watch what the right hand is doing and what he's doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u37	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u38	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to point out that one day, the fact remains that the deputy of the Supreme Council, the leader of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko Yulia Timoshenko, is now simply being persecuted by the neighbouring state. I don't know if I'm capable of a state, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for some kind of note. Unable, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not exist in Ukraine, it only serves the needs of the current authorities and the President. At least the Supreme Council would have to react: to approve, for example, or not to approve, but somehow to react when a fellow member, a member of the Supreme Council is being totally sucked out of his finger of hearing, no more or less. It's all being distributed through government channels, it's being distributed tens of times by government publications. We don't react in any way. So I'm asking you, as chairman, to give orders to the secretariat that the Supreme Council has finally responded to why the baseless, completely unfounded arrest is being announced -- you can imagine! - the arrest of the People's Deputy. It's not just a violation of rights, it's a sinking of the state as such. Thank you. And the Supreme Council, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u39	There's a bill for the Law on Lawyers, registration number 3061. The rapporteur was identified by the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergio Vladislavovich. The committee proposes the following rules: seven minutes to report, five minutes to answer questions, and 12 minutes to discuss and make decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u40	Thank you. I'm going to take the opportunity to speak less, so that I can listen more to my fellow MPs in their comments on the comments on the first reading. I would like to point out that this bill has been tabled by three people's deputies — Deputies Marcus, Sobolev and Demjochin. Before that, there were three separate bills, but under the insistence of the Committee on Legal Policy, a working group was set up, and after very long discussions, a bill which is now before you and I have the honour to present on behalf of three people's deputies and from the committee is a joint bill. I would like to remind you that today the issue of lawyers is governed by the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1992. Since then, there have been very significant changes. I would like to highlight the key things that made the authors go to the new text of the bill and, in fact, one of the key changes is the clarification of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine about the right to legal aid, which was previously restricted to those citizens who had a lawyer's license, after a decision by the Constitutional Court, they have the right to provide legal aid to any citizen, even without legal education. That's why you need to understand how difficult the drafters of the bill were when these warnings of the Constitutional Court had to be taken into account, the changes that had taken place in the entire series of codes that were in some way regulating the activities of lawyers in Ukraine. I'd like to caution against a few key points that are novelty compared to the current law that actually extend the rights of defence attorneys accordingly, which provide a greater system of control over the activities of those bodies that are actually speaking in courts on the other side of the barricade. First of all, I would like to point out that this bill regulates fairly clearly the right to become a lawyer. For example, the status of a lawyer cannot be acquired by a person who has either a summary of his or her trial or who is declared ineffective or limited in his or her judgment. I would like to remind you that there is no such norm for a presidential candidate, unfortunately, in our country, so we've taken all these warnings into account and this law will have such a standard. The other one. This law actually regulated a very complex relationship with a number of new third - and fourth - stage institutions of accreditation that began to train lawyers. This legislative act clearly stipulates that only a person with higher legal education and appropriate qualifications is entitled to be a lawyer. Moreover, the same requirements apply to a lawyer’s assistant or intern. The third fundamental moment. This is all about regulating the activities of the lawyer himself with regard to his rights and duties. In our view, the drafters of the bill, these rights are indeed extended compared to the existing legislation, but these rights are brought into line with those legislative acts that have been adopted in the last three years. I mean, first of all, the codes and the relevant acts that regulate it. The next moment. This is a moment that regulates the organizational activities of lawyers in Ukraine. This is the most fundamental moment that has given rise to various warnings. We received hundreds of letters from lawyers, legal associations. This is a question of whether or not to be in official legal association, for this question is somehow linked to the organization’s self - control. I would like to point out the fundamental points that the authors have gone to in order to address the contradictions that exist today in our current legislation. In our legislation, there is a situation where there are actually a few classes of people who are doing the same kind of legal work. First. These are the people who have the right attorney's license and who are involved in this activity. The second category. They're citizens who don't have a lawyer's license, they have a higher legal education, they work in law firms and they do de facto and de jure legal activities. The regulation of such persons was adopted by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, and in my view, the situation cannot continue when the Cabinet of Ministers regulates such activity. That's why we've pointed out these issues and the positions in this law. And the third. These are lawyers who are part of a legal association and lawyers who are not part of a legal association. In our view, the main thing to remove these contradictions is that we have written down a very important standard in the law in force. In order to hold regional councils of lawyers, a presence of at least two thirds of lawyers is required. This rule makes it impossible to actually usurp power in a separate structural unit that will have a certain number of lawyers in relation to everyone else. For example, today, when there is a legal union, there is much less than the total number of lawyers present in Ukraine, which is linked not only to political or other matters but to the fact that the issue is not yet settled in law. That is why, in order to remove any contradictions that exist with regard to pressure from the legal community on the part of the attorneys, the possibility of granting legal status. We have written down the rule that only two thirds of the lawyers present in the general assemblies in the fields can make decisions, and such congregations will be considered legitimate. This raises the question of the possibility of manipulating individual parts of a legal association for one or more purposes. Another very fundamental moment. It's a restriction on lawyering. In fact, this restriction applies to additional government officials. Because it's insane when government officials remain in the status of a lawyer and carry on this activity. That is why this decision is proposed by the drafters of the bill. The committee’s decision is to adopt the bill in the first reading. In addition, consider the warnings of three other authors who made these amendments. I mean the authors of the Road, the Frost, and the National Deputies. And these warnings are already taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u41	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Please, five minutes. Lighten up. Polychuk, behind him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u43	Please, Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u44	Dear colleague, Sobolev, I have two questions. Based on the substance of this bill on barrison, first, please tell me how you think this bill will give one of the leading lawyers of Ukraine and the heads of the legal community and lawyers of Mr. Medvedchuku, if today's President has a problem with law enforcement and justice. He can act as a lawyer under this law? And the second question. You think the news agencies have just reported that Viktor Fedorovich, the reverend Viktor Fedorovich, was being bullied by the electorate. Do you think we should create a commission of inquiry or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u45	On the second question, this is a matter of the Supreme Council. As to the first question, if literally. To formally answer your question, after the adoption of this law, the head of the President's Administration has no right to engage in legal activity. According to this law, he is obliged to suspend the status of counsel, and more than that, this does not apply to a senior official in the rank of the President's Administration, this applies to any official who is in the service of the State. And I think that's absolutely right, because there can't be a situation where, for example, a lawyer defends the interests of a legal person, a natural person, including, if this is about the pressures from the side of the state, and at the same time, he's going to be sitting in the office of a civil servant, a judge, a prosecutor. These restrictions are similarly warned by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u46	Please, Solomatin, follow him Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u47	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleague, in articles 3 and 4, it is said that the rights of legal activity can be granted not only to Ukrainian citizens, but also to foreigners and stateless persons, if I have correctly understood what is being put there. Please tell us what your position is about involving foreigners and stateless persons for legal activity in Ukraine. That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question is, if that's the case, what is the social dimension of our disadvantaged population, or the uninhabited, is going to be receiving services from foreign lawyers and without our citizenship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u48	Thank you, colleague, for asking. But it is precisely this bill that makes it clear that only Ukrainian citizens are entitled to legal counsel. That's why, in article four, we specifically specify in which status a foreign attorney may be involved, and I will read it directly: "It is only possible to provide legal aid in Ukraine to the law of the country in which he was granted legal status as a lawyer." All of it! I want to remind you that in this room you and I have already considered trying to reach a decision through the Supreme Council on the possibility of obtaining foreign counsel status. I reported that question. It was a proposal from the Ministry of Justice that surprised us very much at the Committee on Legal Policy. I'd like to remind you, if I'm not mistaken, that room was supported by up to 39 people, that's the decision. So this decision is rejected. And obviously, we've settled this issue in the new draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u49	Please, Semenyuk, follow her to school.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u50	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleague, I am pleased that many of the documents that you have submitted today have taken into account our proposals, this is Bill 4030, on which the authors are Semenyuk, Moroz, Spodarenko, concerning especially the public associations of lawyers, because the usurpation that we have today in relation to how this union is headed by Mr. Medvedczuk, today we need to clearly spell out such a mechanism, which also in this bill is intended to be a voluntary union, but by no means under the patronage of the President's Administration, and I thank you for taking our proposal into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u51	You know, that's the hardest question. I was approached by a number of colleagues who made this warning, in our bill, in fact, the duty of being a member of the Lawyers' Association, in the union of lawyers. I say again, how did we try to get out of this question? Well, today's absolutely anomalous situation, where, for example, under the law in force in the Association of Lawyers, there may be, of course, 5 percent of lawyers in Ukraine, and this association will grant or disqualify the rights of lawyers. In order for this not to happen, we have written down a very strict rule: not only the general representation of lawyers at the general assembly, but also two thirds of the representation in all regional forums, which makes it impossible to capture, in fact, authority, usurpation in some part. Second, there's an offer, I think it's going to be considered in the second reading, if we accept in the first reading, our colleague who proposed, in fact, to extend the Bar Association at the expense of those people who are totally under the definition of a lawyer under this law, but, in fact, they're not lawyers today, they don't have a lawyer's license, they're doing all of these, they have legal education, they're working in legal companies that have been put into effect at the time by the Cabinet of Ministers, who compared them to the status of a lawyer. These are people who are equally qualified to participate in fewer cases, and that's why, I think, on the second reading, if we define this, in fact, this will mean an increase, in my opinion, almost double the number of lawyers in Ukraine at the expense of the people who have all these powers, but have these powers not in accordance with the law, unfortunately, but according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is anomalous, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u52	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u53	Thank you. Here are two such questions, Your Honor. Well, I hope that this structure will not only be created as an alternative to an existing, let's say, legal union, which means that in Ukraine is now synonymous with the solicitor and the solicitor. But I hope not. And on the other hand, there has to be legal protection, because in fact, it's easy enough to deprive a lawyer of his legal activity by bringing a criminal case against him. Note: If you move, guilty, not guilty, it will be proven or proved, but: only a violation - immediately removes the lawyer from the process, removes him from the process and with the ability to engage in legal activity, in general, that would be contrary to all existing legislation, but unfortunately it does exist now. Your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u54	Thank you. Thank you. Today, actually, this existing system really allows any human being to be removed from the process, but I would like to remind you that this law is greatly expanding the rights of lawyers. In fact, in this regard, we had warnings from the other side of those who took part in it in fact as an accusation in the process, but in my view the law eventually found some kind of gold inside. We've actually expanded the rights of lawyers, greatly expanded them, and at the same time made lawyers more accountable to their customers. Because in our view, it's very important not only to protect the rights of lawyers, but also to extend them to have access to information, to be able to make legal inquiries on a variety of issues. But on the other hand, we have dozens, hundreds of complaints about how, for example, disgruntled lawyers treat their client base. That's why I think the law has passed a sufficient and hard responsibility, which applies to both fees and the possibility of providing assistance in a different way. And I would also like to warn you that this law, in fact, has very clearly regulated the free legal aid provided by the state budget, it's laid down annually, the law provides for it. I think that from the next budget, we will have to consider and expand, for today’s free legal aid. It's actually a burden on a lawyer, and that's why he's consistent with that when he's defending, as you know, the most disadvantaged citizens, or the disabled, or someone else who can't pay and hire a lawyer. That's why this law regulates it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u55	Thank you. Please sit Sergey Vladislavovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. So we've got 12 minutes on this. Please, Carmazine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! This law, in principle, is necessary to restore it. But conceptually, in terms of what we approve, I cannot stand firm until I claim that I will not vote in any way, to state that the three articles in this law, which are completely dragonish for citizens, in order to protect their rights today, are anti-constitutional, must be deleted. This is an article, part two of the third article: “The lawyers are being merged into the All-U.S. Chamber of Lawyers on the basis of mandatory membership.” This is a violation of the constitutional requirements and the decision of the Constitutional Court. It has to be removed conceptually. And I'm not going to vote for it, and I urge you not to. The other one. That's my lawyer's license. Today, as Ukrainian national deputy, I have the right to exercise this right to remove those people from prison who were put under the actions of "Ukraine without the Cuchma" when Gongadze was killed. At that time, 16 people were taken out of prison in one day. You want to deprive me of this right in article eight, in article 16 consciously, and not just me, but many people. Now the same thing happened when Labazov was convicted in the Chernigiv region. I took advantage of my right to do so. I took advantage of my right to defend the interests of the Village News, which are being torn apart by the President's Administration. Today, time and again, there are teams to consider for the benefit of Rabbinovich all these questions. And you want to cut us here too. It says here: "and is compared to a person who is declared ineffective and has an unquenchable or inextricable trial -- to whom? - To the prosecutor, the investigator, the judge, the notary, the expert, the national deputy, any person who works in the court, the prosecutor's office, the notary, the internal affairs authorities, the Security Service, the state authority and the administration, local self-government, or is in the military or public service. I mean, these people can't even prepare for a change. Your activities. That is why I find this unconstitutional. Repeat, 16, 8 and part 2 of article 3. In particular, I would like to turn to the Acting Head of the Supreme Council, the chairman of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk’s session. Adam Ivanovich! Yesterday’s incident and the failure of the so - called brotherhood who actually carried out the Fascist things lead to their going to the Supreme Council today. And now. There's a bunch of them, you know how much they can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u57	Please, Solomon. “ Keep On Walking With God, ” 3 / 15 Solomonine, please. After him, the Headmaster. Dear colleagues, I repeat. You've turned, we'll turn, we'll give the authorities a task to take care of. This is none of our business. Yes, please, Solomon. After him, the Headmaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u58	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, in Ukraine, there has been a capitalist restoration and the expansion of capitalist socio-economic relations envisions the creation of a branched system of judicial power, including the provision of legal services. I just want to say one thing about it. For me, that remains unclear after studying the content of this law, and after that question that I proposed to the rapporteur, how ordinary a Ukrainian citizen, a small Ukrainian with a level of income, will be able to obtain legal services. Or it'll be a privilege for the so-called middle class, not to mention being favored by the capitalist millionaires. This only piece of legislation agreed between the legislators of the national deputies of Ukraine, Markusz, Sobolev, and Demjokhin, was submitted in exchange for the earlier ones that had already been discussed. It should be noted that most of the previously noted shortcomings of previous projects in the preparation of this agreed project have been taken into account by its developers, and this is very pleasant. And as a result, the quality of this project has become significantly higher. I am pleased that the bill clearly states on what conditions and on what grounds foreign and stateless persons may provide their legal services, our citizens on the basis of our domestic legislation and the functioning Constitution of Ukraine, of course. Our country's attorneys are supposed to protect them. To Article 7. The first part of Article 7 of Part 5 and Article 49 is that the lawyer’s certificate and the license of a member of the All - Ukrainian Chamber of Lawyers are the first part. It's not quite clear, it's one document or it's different documents. And when this bill was submitted for second reading, it had to be taken into account and corrected. And the last words. I would very much like to expect this law to be able to protect the ordinary citizen of Ukraine, first of all, the little Ukrainian who is here being drooled by crocodile tears from the supporters of "our Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u59	Please, Headmaster. Yavorowski gives the word to Czernowetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u60	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the honourable colleagues. In view of the fact that in the session room, perhaps one of those with experience in the legal profession, I will switch from professional, legal language to political, and I will refer to you as politicians. What can I agree with the drafters of the bill? The fact that Ukraine needs to create an independent self-sustaining professional organization of lawyers. I have been speaking for this since 1992, when I founded the Ukrainian Legal Foundation, and in 10 or 12 years I have not been able to fight the opposition of Medvedczuk, who has been working since then, but since Ukraine’s independent self - control professional legal organization. What can I not agree with the drafters of the bill? The way they propose to do it. They propose to establish a Soviet-type farm in Ukraine called Medvedchuk Radgosp, where Medvedchuk will be the director. Why? Not even a farm. For in Soviet times the colospo was a voluntary union. The truth is formally voluntary. And the councillor was the director, and he had hired employees. This is politically suggested. Please tell me, who doesn't know that Medvedchuk is in control of the judiciary today? Who doesn't know that Medvedchuk controls the High Council of Justice? Who knows how many members of the Bar Association, controlled by Medvedchuk, speak in court today to defend citizens who defend their political rights? Demonstrators, students and so on. Understandably, they are more likely to appear in domestic courts, where a lawyer is obliged to agree on who will pay more for the case or in civil courts. What about criminal cases? What is proposed? It is suggested that even a new assembly be held by whom? U.S. Attorneys' Association. A civil union of only a third of today’s Ukrainian lawyers. What about those two-thirds who don't want to go to Medvedchuk today? Similarly, the meeting is set up and conducted by this law, a qualified commission at the Cabinet of Ministers, which is now in control of legal activity. So let's ask, have the drafters of the bill read the recommendations set by the institutes of the Council of Europe on how an independent, self-governing, voluntary organization should be arranged? Where, the lawyers themselves decide, not where the director of today’s attorney association will be. I'm suggesting we turn him down today. While I was one of the initiators to get the Council of Europe's conclusions on what Ukraine should be, that's our commitment. Let's wait until the election. Let's consult with all the lawyers! And we'll get more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u61	Please, Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u62	Quiet in the hall, huh? It's interesting I'll say it now. Černovetski Leonid Mihajlović, faction "Our Ukraine", leader of the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. Dear Presidents! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to say that Our Ukraine, the faction, will be fully, I believe, supporting the bill that Mr. Sobolev has tabled. It's a great law. And I'll explain to you why he's outstanding. I've been around the world. We don't have a lawyer system and a lawyer can't protect anyone, including us, and in my eyes, many deputies were planted here illegally, and then one of them died in prison. Because today's attorney has no authority and it's convenient for the authorities. If you don't support this bill, you will support the criminal authority that wants to see a lawyer only, as I say, communist bourgeois on ropes and bitches. This is a very serious matter. This is the first time. Secondly, lawyers around the world have a touchiness to keep documents, such as any citizen. This is a very important bill. Today, counsel has no rights at all. He is prosecuted as a dog from court proceedings, and court hearings take place without his participation. Well, it's a nightmare and that's it. In response to the trailer of the former minister and the distinguished lawyer of Mr. Headman: I will tell you that I am, I issue the newspaper Law and Business. Lawyers are all 100 percent supporting this bill and thanks to Sobolev for passing it, because I'm collecting this practice, and I'm telling you, wow! I've caught you, you'll be acting after me now. Just remember my last name, agreed to make it democratic, and then I could do it. If we do not uphold this law, it is a problem for democracy. And finally. Indeed, there are several milestones to this bill. There may not be one college, but colleges do. Let's make three or two of them, but a college needs to be able to recommend a lawyer, otherwise he can be a rogue. In general, lawyers are more honest with prosecutors around the world. Let our chosen ones hear it. We've led them to the wrong condition, because he's just like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u63	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, the last two speaking - well - known lawyers, candidates for legal sciences, and differing opinions. So let's listen to the Ministry representative, and then I'll give you a line. Justice Department, what's the position? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. The Ministry of Justice considers it possible to support the bill in the first reading. Secondly, there's a remark about the relationship between lawyers as a corporate system with authorities, and we think there should be a mechanism to these relationships. There is a question of determining the content of legal aid, there is a question of the rights of lawyers, particularly the right to enter any premises without hindrance. At the same time, there are questions that have already been raised in the speeches of individual national deputies. They can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u64	Please, a line. Head Sergei, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u65	In view of the fact that the last speaker in the debate said a little unreliable information to the MPs that all lawyers support, I can tell you, I know that there is not a single letter on behalf of the Supreme Council Head, not one appeal from lawyers and individual lawyers who ask Vladimir Mikhajlovich to assist in leaving lawyers in a peaceful state under the 1992 law and not to give them to Medvedch for this concept. So it's not true that all lawyers support it. Lawyers who do not join the Bar Association are asked to join in the discussion, give their conclusions, and for the moment allow them to work uncontrollablely from Medvedchuk, which will be provided by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u66	Please, Sobolev, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I like the logic that Medvedchuk is in control right now. So let's keep it that way. I would just like to say to you: this bill actually has one key thing, from which, notice, all the speeches that have been made, is the duty or the optionalness of membership. But on the other hand, let's think about it: if this body is actually directly involved in the acquisition of the status of a lawyer, in the removal, in disciplinary matters. Could there be two or three such organs? Otherwise, we will lead to absurdity when a disgruntled lawyer becomes a member of one union first, is expelled, he goes into another union, he becomes a member of another union. So what should be the only system is no doubt. Another question. I fully agree with the Chief of Staff: it is an obligation or an obligation. The second is a warning: listen to the Ministry of Justice. Do you see how many rights lawyers have? How are they going to have access to everything else, and so on and so forth? But that's exactly what this law is for: to establish and raise the status of a lawyer. So there might be a compromise offer. There is a warning about an article that regulates the obligations of membership. If this is already the case, let us, without this paragraph, adopt this law in the first reading, and then, in the second reading, we will be absolutely clear on what to do next. That's exactly what I had in mind. The absence of law leaves for today a situation where real control is completely by one third of the people who are not today, for example, the general representation of lawyers in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u68	For reasons of voting Stretovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u69	Thank you. Vladimir Stretović, "Our Ukraine", Christian-Democratic Union. As our radio audience hears, Parliament today has different views on the appropriateness of adopting such a law. But what I'm saying is, if his authors deliberately start by setting anti-constitutional standards, you can ask questions about the rejection of this bill. So it makes perfect sense that we need such a law, but we don't need an editorial that is now presented and proposed by the committee. With all due respect to the Committee on Legal Policy, we can't conceptually support it, because it's going to be in our box for a long time, the concept doesn't match. We've worked so hard on the Criminal Procedure Code, and we've done, we've thrown, and now we've got to go for a year and a half and a half and we can't go because the concept of the law is wrong. So I urge my colleagues not to vote in favour of this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, put your hands down. Question completed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the first reading of the Law on Lawyers. Registration number 3061. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:08]] For-153, The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Again? No three? All right, now, now. Let's vote for accepting it as the basis for the first reading without. With the deletion of the article spoken here. The one the reporter was talking about. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:43:48]] For-144 The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. You're not on that committee, as far as I know, Vladimir Kirilovich. Let's move on to the "short procedure" section. What's the committee's opinion? Sobolev! Yeah, I'll take the first one again. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:31]] For-167 Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine is 63, the Ukrainian regions are 10, the Communists are 55, the Social Democrats and the Labour Republic are 0, the People's Agrarian Party is 13, the Socialists are 9, Timoshenko is 0, the Union is 0, the NDP, the industrialists and entrepreneurs are 2, the only Ukraine is 2, the Center is 8, the Deminitatives are 0, the non-fractional is 5. The bill was rejected. Let's move on to the section "Abbreviated procedure." The draft Law on the abolition of benefits and privileges for officials of all branches of authority is being complied with in Ukraine. [[Registration number 5124]] National deputy of Ukraine, Czernovetský Leonid Mihajlovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u71	Dear Chairman! Dear People's Deputies and Radio Listeners! Our Ukraine faction, leader of the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine Leonid Chernovetski. I want to tell you why our people live poor. This law, which I am proposing today, on the deprivation of the benefits and privileges of all branches of power from the Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council is a fundamental law for our people not to flee our country and for our grandparents to receive immediate compensation for savings books. [[7 million people today walk around the country as a third-rate audience]] The point is that every day the authorities buy expensive items from furniture and expensive “mersedes” per million bracelets to special jets, hotels, holiday homes, special-purpose shops, every crap we have left today from the Soviet Union. [[It's just the palaces aren't on them yet.]] Name at least one country and the world who will speak, where such an event takes place. If the Minister of the Empowered Country, for example, wants to go to Truscavets, but he does not want to, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will require a visa bribe from him and will, of course, have the problem of leaving the country, of course, of going to our miserable country, he will be paid by the Power, the United States or Germany, of course, and he will go anywhere. [[We've established a visa regime all over the place.]] There's no problem. I promise you, they'll vote a communist, buy each one for their personal money. That's not the problem. Because respectable Communists die every day of their grandparents ’ death. And they buy every day today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u72	Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u73	Just don't beat me up, Adam Ivanovich, or I'll walk right over to you. That's gonna be a problem. Grandparents die every day. They need money to keep track of them, to create homes for the elderly, to take care of the people at all. Look, let's take an example. We're the best branch of government in Ukraine. I think so. Because if it wasn't, the President would be sitting here supporting me. The Prime Minister would sit here and support me, because I know that for Leonid Danilovich it's not a problem. He'll sign the bill. But the fact that there is no presidential candidate today from power is that we will continue to separate from the people. One part will eat and go to separate hotels and in separate sanatoriums to treat and ride expensive armored Mercedes that protect them from their own people. And the other part will die. There has been no such genocide in Ukraine throughout the history of the country. Please vote in favour of this law. Because on the fifth of October, I will lead to the walls of the Supreme Council of the people who support me in this. There is no further power to separate from the people. We can't drive separately from the people unless you're businessmen. When Adam Ivanovich says I'm riding the Maibah, I'm riding the Maibah and they'll keep driving. Because it wasn't bought for the people's blood money that he sucked out before he died, and it was bought for the company's money. And let the companies buy their own Mercedes and planes and anything. This has nothing to do with social justice. Please, comrades of the Communists, support your people. You don't need armored Mercedes. Nobody needs you, nobody's gonna kill you. That's 100 percent. And the way you vote, I'm going to publish in the 3 millionth edition of the "Imam Right" newspaper. This is a flagrant violation of human rights. Of course, you don't want to be treated in the same hospital. But then you'll know if there's any of those drugs. And look how you're going to be demanded by these doctors who are not treating the working people today. You'll see all the horror of transportation because otherwise you're driving the cars you bought from the pensioners on whose behalf you're speaking. It's pure insolence. If you don't vote for this law, you show that you're not from the people, and I respect you and I love you. But you must protect the people. Well, please! Oh, I'm hugging you too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u74	Yes. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! It's an interesting topic, of course, that's a good one. Yes, we will. No, it's not. No questions asked, so it's a reduced procedure. Yes. He insists on the committee. Please, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investments Committee, Mr. Vladimir Kirilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the abolition of benefits and privileges in Ukraine for officials of all branches of government! tabled by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Czernovecki. The bill proposes: to share and privatise notified medical facilities, businesses, rest and treatment facilities at the disposal of government authorities, to abolish all acts by which officials of these bodies have established any personal benefits and privileges and to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare a programme for the use of the funds received as a result of the stocktaking and privatization of the listed institutions, with the aim of compensating them for the loss of Ukrainian citizens' lost money savings. That's the whole point of the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill is appropriate for further work. Agreeing that the question of orderling benefits to officials of all branches of government for the purpose of budget savings is extremely relevant, the members of the Committee also note that the bill is subject to substantive cooperation with the aim of harmonising it with legislation. For example, part 2 of article 3, and part 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property establishes a prohibition or restriction on the privatization of health facilities, i.e. the bill for existing laws, which should also be amended if the Act is to be adopted. It is therefore appropriate to specify the list of prominent rest and treatment facilities offered to share and privatize and propose changes to a number of laws, as well as to provide financial justifications for the provision of mandatory medical, preventive, and treatment measures for a particular category of workers. It is proposed that all regulatory acts of Ukraine be repealed, by which the officials of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities have established any personal benefits and privileges provided by law. But without taking into account the characteristics of the recognition procedure, such that they have lost the validity of those normative acts that currently exist, i.e. they need to bring the law into line with those acts that are there, or they need to change those laws and acts that are now in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u76	So, what's the committee's decision? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u77	The committee decided by majority to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft law. I was personally among those who voted in favour of this law. But that decision did not receive most of the votes. Now let the session room handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. So, then, please two for, two against. Yavorowski. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block Dear colleagues, our constituents! Of course, I understand that there is no man in this room who would not support the noble spirit drive of Chernevski, one bill to bring order in our society. I'm absolutely convinced that it's my personal opinion that on a few scales we live with you in a state that has all the signs of the Inquisition and all the signs of the Middle Ages. The Inquisition is that in this state they can cut off a journalist's head and not find, they can poison the president's most promising candidate, and so on. On the other hand, we live in a feudal state, because the colossal dispersion in society may only be likened to some sort of original feudalism. I want us to think for a moment about how in the early 1990s the whole society supported the struggle of the patriotic, democratic forces, the struggle against the privileges that we had, let's say, the party nomenclature, and how everyone believed that once an independent Ukrainian state and independent Ukrainian government appeared, everything would be in place. Today, it can be said that it has grown to a size far larger, far more threatening than we have had before. Yeah, there's no special distributors today, because nobody needs them -- pay the money, go and buy them. But only individuals have money. I'd like to support today's idea of, let's say, purifying society from that because. I will give this example: The German Catholic father, who united two pieces of Germany, who raised Germany to the highest economic level, traveled somewhere in Berlin, I don’t think I remember Bonn, and exceeded the speed of its drivers at a time when it was not ritualistic, not official travel, stopped the car, and arrested. Yesterday I stood for three hours while he drove away, and I don’t even know who — either Medvedchuk or Yanukovich — was sure. And there are people who have to go 300,400 kilometers to Poltava, who have to pass through the national electorate. whether it's the president or the head of administration. As a result, I am absolutely convinced that today the law on a civil servant is premature. We've split up, we've assigned a secretary today, Medvedchuk, who's going to have the highest pension, with this woman who, if you'll excuse me, gave me cancer on the barrels for the rest of her life. I am convinced that such a law is necessary, but I am convinced that it will not pass today. Because I think that after the President's election, we're going to have to go back to this question, form a normal bill and get rid of these, once again, terrible feudal benefits that exist in our society.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, if you don’t mind, let’s work without interruption on Friday. We'll work all the time. Please, Karmazin, follow the Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u81	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear national MPs, our Ukrainian citizens! You know, we should thank Leonid Mikhailovich Czernovecki for introducing such a bill. But it should also be stressed that the law is incomplete. Leonid Mikhailovich, the law is incomplete. The law looks, in fact, in the form of a revolutionary decree. Within four months, prominent medical facilities have been set up to share and privatize. I want to say that as far as medical institutions are concerned, I'm bringing you back to article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and it clearly states that the existing network of such institutions cannot be reduced. So we have to look for a different form, a different form. The transfer of these medical facilities or to the Ministry of Protection or elsewhere, but not privatization or destruction of them, either state or municipal, is contrary to article 49, part three, of the Constitution. With regard to other suggestions. I would like to see hospitals of the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service, the IMF as specific organizations that perform specific functions. Of course, with regard to the state administration of the matters that everything has taken on, and all the sanatoriums, including the pioneer camps, have been managed wisely by the head of the Administration, that today even "Artek" is a wasteful, all today is a wasteful thing to sell everything now. And what about bringing all the other benefits and privileges that there are, is that the second paragraph should be completely accepted: to cancel all the normative acts, including the "For the Service Use", "The Secret" and "The Whole Secret," which the officials of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities have established any personal benefits and privileges. I mean, I would like you and I to adopt this law in the first reading, to be thoroughly developed, to be included by the Health Committee, to be sure that we have involved in defence issues, and to include other committees on this issue, and so on. Thank you for your attention, and please accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u82	Please, Gmira. After him, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the communists have always been in favour of eliminating the benefits. We have repeatedly introduced relevant bills to the Supreme Council, in particular the Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko bill on the main areas of economic and social development in Ukraine. Therefore, on first reading, we will vote in favour of this law. But I want to emphasize, only on first reading. It's a piece of legislation. He reminds me, in a way, of the crocodile's jaw, everything is in place, but it doesn't bite. And the breadth of the bill is understandable, given the social status of the banker's colleague, who proposed it. Let's think about what is the main benefit in Ukraine today? This benefit of the criminal-alligarchic bourgeoisie is enriched by the people of Ukraine. This benefit is not offered by a colleague. Think about it if the bank robbed. If a man robs a bank, he'll be in jail. But if the bank robbed thousands of people, the banker moved up the service ladder and even often made political careers. We have the main benefit that we have through proximity to the body of the head of his immediate State, the oligarchs have the right to privatize the most profitable enterprises in Ukraine. This relief must therefore be combated, and this relief must be brought to an end. In particular, you. That's a lot of talk about our population being robbed. Let's block the bank accounts from those oligarchs who robbed the population. You know, we're often told, "How come? There is a Constitution of Ukraine. You can't do that!".. Let us do the same thing in 1992 - block their accounts and issue a statement that the State recognizes this debt and pays off with the oligarchs, but only after we pay off the population that suffered in 19992. Of course, first a pensioner and then a millionaire. If such changes are made to the law and it is not the privatization of these enterprises, but the introduction of money into the budget, we will vote in favour of such a bill and in second reading, the bill will be for the benefit of the people. I'm not sure that's the case. Returns, I'm sure it won't pass in this form in the Supreme Council, but when the president becomes Communist Simonenko, we will enforce such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u84	The word has been given to the national MP, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! The idea of the bill objectively and comprehensively to deal with the benefits is good. But what Chernewsky has to offer. He suggests privatizing clinics and money from privatization to send back savings. So not to eliminate benefits like these, but to privatize clinicians. But when it comes to order in the clinic system and stuff like that, first of all, it would have to be not the clinics that I think should be in the MMS system, but the non-privatized ones, and that would have to be, let's say, the structures like the corrosive DUS have to be made clear whether the president of a poor country like ours, so many residences and, let's say, his residences. [[State administration of Ukraine’s Presidential Office]] You should really give it to your children because there is fresh mountain air; and you should deal with all these hunting grounds, houses, and so forth; and consider, for example, the cultural objects of who and what they are taken for. For example, in Kiev there was a movie theater called "Stars," there were people going there, now it's surrounded by, you know, barbed iron peaks such as the zone, fenced, there's the election headquarters of Janukovich, which is surrounded by kyans. From them. What I liked was what I took. And now we're afraid to turn the whole country into a zone. That would be enough to get the deposit back. But in order to realize the author’s idea and to make a fair return, it is necessary not to defraud people who, including those who want to return their savings, to cheat. As Janukovic does, for example, when he says in Berdichev he'll double his pension and he'll sign a draft budget for tomorrow, where there's no money to raise his pension, and that's an open bribe to the election. And the same bribe is the message in the context of our conversation about the return of savings, that Janukovic has allocated 6 billion to raise savings. And I'm talking to you, citizens of Ukraine, and I want to say that there's no spending on these funds, that you're not going to get out of these 6 billion dollars of living money, that at the expense of these funds, you're going to have to pay off the debts of enterprises, the loans are different, the benefits. We know how much and why, and what loans are written down on!Oh, my God! And the people you need. There's only one thing! What, someone who has a hopeless debt to his apartment can seem to be written down. But what I'm saying is that it was the poor pensioners that made the choice!Oh, my God!!!, it is the poor pensioners who get in line, pay nicely for the apartments, and it is the oligarchs in which the huge, multimeter apartments are not paying. And specifically to the bill. This is in principle, dear friends, this is the ground, this is the basis on which you can create a normal law that would put order in this area, this is an attempt. And maybe I tend to do what I can in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u86	Yes. The discussion was concluded. Please, the final word of the reporter. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u87	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The "Our Ukraine" faction, which I hope will fully support, I think the Communists will support. Leader of the Christian Liberal Party Leonid Chernovetski. I want to tell you the following. Here, let the whole people hear me, yeah. You don't like my cars? I'm transferring the Communists to the Wireksbank tomorrow, aren't I? With 350 million rounds a day. Vote for this law! The place with the cars, today! Vote it in full! If you support him on the first reading, I'll get you a pint. That's what I promise you. But have a conscience, e-my! The law is simple! There's no problem. Who else needs a gigouli is in line. Well, vote for him! Well, we can't live apart from the people! Please, I beg of you! Have a conscience! Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we will now listen to the representative of the General Service. Please, the position of the government. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers implements and supports measures aimed at improving efficiency and the use of state property. But, as has already been said, the issue of stocktaking and privatization of public health facilities will lead to a violation of part three of article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which determines that health care must be added in public health institutions and that the existing network of such facilities cannot be reduced. At the same time, let me point out that civil servants have certain rights. In particular, the exercise of rights and freedoms guaranteed to all citizens of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. In adopting the Ukrainian State Service Act, the legislator set such social guarantees for civil servants. That is: Encouragement for conscientious work, additional vacations, adequate housing from the State Fund, and what is being discussed today is for free medical care in public health institutions. Thus, stocktaking and privatization of medical facilities will lead to a violation of a series of articles of Ukrainian law. Therefore, the law is not supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I see he wants a lot out of the procedure. Please sign in. Three minutes. Yes, please, for the reasons of the vote, we are three minutes, Carmazin. Behind him, Sirenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u90	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Although our faction isn't offered for Games by voice, it's understandable, but, nevertheless, I'm joking, just to be clear. But this law in the first reading, despite the inadequacies to which he referred, and the violation of article 49 of the Constitution, part three, can be adopted in the first reading. On the second reading, all of this is thrown out and entrusted to the profile committees, as a minimum of four would have, from local self-government, too, because there are also utilities that are offered there, and so are the benefits. So for the first reading, I think you can vote absolutely normal and calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u91	Please, Sirenko. After him, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u93	Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u94	Thank you. The Supreme Council has certainly seen a lot of things, but what is happening today and now, when this bill is being considered, is already the top of cynicism and, in particular, on the part of Mr. Chernewsky. We Communists are definitely, definitely! We're just trying to give us a bribe! We don't need gigulos that are going to be bought for the people's stolen money. The Communists support this bill, they will vote for it honestly and openly, as we always do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u95	Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm still asking you not to turn the Supreme Council into a circus and not have a discussion here, as if the Supreme Council were really solving serious government issues through some kind of trade. I'm asking you to take this law seriously, it solves a lot of questions, and we need to vote on it in the first reading. I am now addressing those factions that block the work of the Supreme Council, support this law in the first reading. This does not solve any strategic issues either for the government or for the President or for the Head of the Supreme Council. And we need the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u97	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u98	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to apologize to the radio audience for what happened. To be honest, it's not typical of the Supreme Council, and hopefully it will never be, because the question raised is really, really serious, and the reporter himself has doubtless made mistakes, translating it into the sphere of jokes and certain, let's say, inconveniences in which all the members of the Supreme Council have been placed. There's so much talk about who, who, what, where and how much he gives. So I'd like this to be removed once and for all by the reporter in the closing word. Of course, there are no beneficiaries of benefits to themselves or to senior government officials, but the situation here is difficult enough because there are objects belonging to the Supreme Council and there have already been attempts to deprive members of the benefits of selling, trading with these objects. In particular, some objects of the Supreme Council no longer belong to Ukraine but to other subjects, or Russia, that are entrepreneurs of different backgrounds that are clean and unclean. So I would like to say that the question is right, but I would like this bill to be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u99	Well, we've already made our point, dear colleagues. Well, Drago's been standing there a long time, maybe he can't stand it. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u100	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You're right, it's hard to stand by when it comes to talking about what is being voted positive for "Gigs." I invite those who support to give up these gigulas. Dear author! Hand them over to 104th district in Luhansk, on mine. We'll give them to the old men along with you. That's why I propose that all the votes you've received from the faction you promised are legalized in the Gigiles and we'll give it to the Lugani pensioners. Do we have a deal? The second moment, and this may be some last thought: I am deeply grateful to you for this civil action, and I hope they will understand that this money has been earned fairly, not, as one colleague here said, by banks banned from the people, and that I am therefore in solidarity with your endeavours and I propose, in general, that you take stock of the outcome of our discussion. So, Luhanska's old people get 60 gigulas from a presidential candidate, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u101	Yes. Dear colleagues, the lineup, the minute, the Chernewetsk and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u102	So, I'll tell you, yes, you don't provoke or lead us into absurdity, nonsense. Well, it's a dick, it's a serious question, and it just stands, doesn't it? You can, your people in 104th District are starving, they won't choose you again in life if you don't vote for this Act. And Mr. Matveyev, I'm depriving you of the gigulae because he stood up to me and told you that I, I told you, I'd give you a bank. Yeah? 350 million dollars a day, the Pravex Bank is one. Please vote in first reading. Yeah, there's a million problems, but there's a problem in the head. Nationalism does not differ from communism, for it is a single curvature. The problem with privatization, that I want to take them away, God help me, I have never participated in any privatization in my life, and it is completely unnatural for me, because I have never cooperated with the Government. And you all know that, vote for this bill because you're causing yourself problems if you don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u103	Yes. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the matter has been concluded, we will determine, by voting, on the adoption as a basis of the first reading of the Law on the Cancellation in Ukraine, of the benefits to officials of all branches of government. Registration number 5124. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:18:31]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 86 gigulos, "Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 54, but without gigulos, Social Democrats, "Trug Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 5, Socialists - 12, Block Timoshenko - 16, "Soyuz" - 0, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 6, "One Ukraine" - 1, "Centre" - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 7. Who's for rereading the first reading, please make up your mind. [[12:19:32]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 86, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, communists - 52, "Social Democratic" and "Democrat Ukraine" - 0, "The People's Agrarian Party" - 1, "Socialists" - 14, "Timoshenko Block - 18, "Soyuz" - 0, "NDP", "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 7, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Centre" - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfraction" - 6. The bill was rejected. We're looking at a draft regulation on a program for teaching students from the Republic of Cuba in Ukraine. Registration number 5062. According to Rudzikowski Mikolajovich. Please operationally, Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the need to adopt a decree on a programme for the education of students in the Republic of Cuba in Ukraine is due to the importance of further development and strengthening the expansion of long-term relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Cuba. The Republic of Cuba provided very substantial unilateral assistance to Ukraine, to Ukrainian children after the Chernobyl disaster. And throughout all the years from the 1990s to the 2004s, it's continued unilaterally to provide assistance to our children. During this time, more than 20,000 Ukrainian children were being treated in the territory of Cuba. A group of National Deputies, in an amended decision, are asking you to support this decision, which we recommend to the government to provide annually in the State Funding Budget for 200 students from the Republic of Cuba so that they can learn and receive education in Ukraine, by obtaining specialties, which will then allow us to use our products in Cuba's territory, particularly in the aviation sector, particularly in the processing sector and so on. [[especially Rudzkowski, Bogatirirova, Nikolainko]] [[Kafarsky, Bauer, Usenko, Rodionov, Proskuratov]] This is one of the important components of improving not only the political relationship between our nations but also the improvement of exports of Ukrainian goods from Ukraine to Cuba. It seems to me that given such an important unilateral contribution by the Republic of Cuba to our children's recovery, we should all consider and support the friendly decision worked out. It's a work in progress, which is supported by a committee supported by the Ministry of Profiles and the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask that the government representative take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u105	Thank you, Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. Don't you get it? Well, the school doesn't get it. You're still on the 5th, you won't get the word. Yes, please, Kafarsky. Then there's the faction statement. Let's figure it out. From the committee Secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! At its meeting in June of this year, the committee reviewed the draft decree and decided to support it. What arguments are there to support the ruling proposed by Rudzkovsky Mikolayovich and other national deputies? The fact is that there are 130 students in the world today in Ukraine. We have 34,000 foreign students today who are making a profit to our country in the amount of $80 million. On the other hand, we teach our students on government arrangements today for scholarships from other states. At the same time, there are 2,000 students in Ukraine who are being trained by the State for their scholarships. Given that we are entering the Bologna Process, that we are expanding the field of education of Ukraine and the field of impact of education of Ukraine on other countries, I think we should support this bill. The other side of the issue is that Cuba is still treating our children who have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster. At the same time, Santa Claus was now known as Rudzkovsky’s 20 thousand children. I understand that transporting these children today is also the right amount to be found, but there are public organizations that will help. And not to support the fact that in the isolation that Cuba is in today, we did not accept these students, we did not break this blockade, which is going on for a long time, it would be very uncomfortable in terms of even the international relations and the letters that the Cuban Embassy is sending today to each of the deputies today. But the committee is asking you to support, without denying Rudzkowski's authorship, Bogatyrov, Nikolayenko is asking you to support the rulings for number 5062-D. Why? Because the decision, proposed by Mikola Mikolaiovich, was inappropriate: in the second paragraph, it was written, to entrust the Ministry of Science and Education of Ukraine and the Embassy of Ukraine in the Republic of Cuba, to provide an appropriate contractual legal base. We have the right to make a decision in which we owe something to the Embassy of the Republic of Cuba. So the second paragraph is a little bit re-thinked and we're asking you to accept it in the second paragraph. To entrust the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and beyond. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's stand by and vote. I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. [[12:26:46]] For-166 Dear colleagues! Come on, then, of course, I get it. Then we'll do it another way. Here two factions want a break so they don't take a break, I'm adding the word Colonyari for the statement, and then we're going to discuss it, we're going to continue its consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u108	You'll hear it. Dear colleagues! The people of Ukraine! Today, 24 September, in Ivano-Frankovsk, in the time of Victor Fedorović Januković's meeting with the voters, our Prime Minister, a candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents, a group of nationalist extremists with screams: "Yes, Yushchenko!", threw heavy objects at Viktor Fedorovich. He's still receiving medical attention. Also wounded guard Victor Fedorovich. Mr. Yushchenko and our Ukrainians! You raised a bunch of nationalist ice creams. You want politics in Ukraine to be the way you show it! You'll get it! You're not going to see it, you're going to have to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u109	Dear colleagues. Please, Tomenka's microphone. But don't call it names or factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I'd like our colleagues here in the session room to be tolerant and well-educated. We are concerned about the fact that during the meeting of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich we threw eggs or other objects. And I told you today in the session room that the dirty methods that Leonid Kuchma is talking about, we condemn and do everything we can to prevent it. Regrettably, these dirty methods were promoted by the President’s Administration and the authorities for more than a month. The public channels are advertising and showing the UNA brotherhood and other structures that operate by strong methods. And there's ovaries preparing all over Ukraine. So we want this situation cleared up and finally ordered these young people who have nothing to do with our Ukraine and who are trying to provoke and turn the electoral campaign into a dirty one. That's why we're here to figure out this situation and put the dots over the "and."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u111	Dear colleagues. Javorowski, please, insists on a decision on the teaching of Cuban students. Please. Please, the Yavorowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u112	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". I'm just saying a few words about this project of our decision on a program for teaching Cuban students in Ukraine. The situation must be approached with caution. First of all, this is the plane of interstate relations. That's why I'm not going to talk about isolation and non-insulation and stuff. But it's a really specific fact that Cuba has really provided tremendous, huge help to our children, especially the Chernobyl children, and treated them. This was done by poor Cuba. Of course, we should take some steps to meet her. Adam Ivanovich, I'm convinced that perhaps we haven't voted and voted on this decision, in my view, of course, for one reason -- because I, as a deputy, as a citizen of Ukraine, am beginning to think: these 200 places that we are giving to Cubans, whether they will not be taken from children, let's say, my electorate or themselves, these voters who should learn at the expense of the state, because we know what assets we have today in the Ukrainian State especially for rural children, for low-income families and so on. That's why I would suggest, let's say, that we make some kind of clarification so that the government is completely separate, not from the budget that our students have put on, but, let's say, take some government decision or ours, but that in the next year's budget these 200 places or 150, maybe 200, in my opinion, it's too much, in my opinion, to make it totally separate, so that it doesn't go away, once again, I say, on the possibility of learning children who are underprivileged. Then, I think it'll be fair and normal: we and Cuba will shake hands and at the same time, let's say we don't insult our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u113	Thank you. Yes, Karmazin Yuri. After him, Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u114	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! The fact that it is a disaster now requires undisputed investigation, like all the facts that are happening with regard to politicians. According to this report, which is currently available in the media, we are informed on the phone that some young people are talking about, and we do not know who are the right ones to throw eggs. But politicians don't have to throw eggs either. There's a word. The word must be answered with a word. In this case, I deeply feel for President Viktor Yanukovich's candidate for office that he is now in a medical chair. But I would ask you not to get excited about this, and I would like to ask you to make a decision about the curriculum for teaching students from the Republic of Cuba, which is now proposed and which does not bear any political ground. We should thank this island, which has found a unique method of treating children, patients, and who are infected by an accident in Chernobyl’s AES. These are the victims of this catastrophe, these are the people who. We owe Cuba. I don't know why they wrote 200 places at the state budget. Maybe it takes 300, maybe 500, and the State budget will pull us if it holds Kuchmi-Janukovich's neck today. I would ask you to focus now all of us, there aren't so many of us in the room, it's so clear there, and find the voices and take off all the political tensions, and take advantage of the opportunity that. There was another covert incident yesterday: on the 5th channel, a member of our faction, Eugene Corvonenko, said that the attempt would have been beneficial to Medvedchuku and Frost. Now, as a member of this faction, I would like to apologize to Alexander Moroz for the fact that this phrase has been said in such a context, because as the head of the Party of Fatherland's Defenders who supports Victor Yashchenk, I cannot hang any political labels on our colleagues in opposition, with which we certainly have to move this regime together so that the provocations that were planned have been by the Globe of Pavlovsky for a long time now are known, and Helman, the state has not now taken place. Thank you for your attention and ask you to focus and vote on this decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u115	The word is given by the national deputy Alekseus, followed by Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! I am speaking not only as a representative of the faction of the Company of Ukraine but as the head of the inter-parliamentary inter-parliamentary group with the Republic of Cuba, and I would like to point out that our faction is, of course, supporting the drafters of the bill in that they have made a good proposal, because, indeed, the Republic of Cuba, which has for more than 10 years, has been highlighted, already underlined by the previous unhelpful speakers, has been helping our country. I want to emphasize that it's little Cuba, a socialist Cuba, which is a small country. Where are these countries that promised to help after the disaster in Chernobyl? I mean: The United States, the countries of the European Union, that promised to help Ukraine to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, namely, the treatment of thousands of children who became sick after the disaster and many children die. Cuba has been treating these children in its territory for years at a cost. For the authors of the bill, I want to say that we, our group, are constantly in contact with the Embassy of the Republic of Cuba here in Ukraine, and we know that not only students prepare are in need of Cuba. And more specifically, the Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba here, Mr. Garmendia, he told me in personal meetings that Cuba is more interested in preparing than they say. Only, that is, professionals who already have higher education, but would be able to retrain here. I would like to make a suggestion that this bill will be open to and prepared for Cuba by professionals, postgraduates and so on, who already have higher education. We fully support, propose to the House to vote and support this very useful bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u117	Please, from the weak microphone. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u118	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, of course, the need to build international relations, as well as the positive image of Ukraine in the international arena, is an important thing in which exchange of students appears. And you know that Ukraine is working on this right now. And if we were still doing this with other international organizations and countries, it would be even more consistent with our image, what Cuba means. I would like to emphasize that, of course, our faction will vote in favour. But we do need to know exactly what skills there should be, what specialties there is. And here you probably have to add what the ministry should pre-calculate, which is exactly what it's planning to teach these Cuban students, so that we have an exact figure in addition to our budget, as our colleagues have rightly pointed out here. That's the first one. And the second. Adam Ivanovich, I feel so strongly that there is a dispute in our room today. Let's, maybe we'll end this discussion today by simply discussing it, so that on Tuesday next session week, we can postpone this necessary vote. And by doing so, we will fulfill all the necessary standards that we are supposed to have, that is, listened to, discussed. All we have to do is vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u119	A minute of vote, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u120	Thank you. I would like to support the previous speakers with such an offer. Of course, you can really shift this vote to a later term, but with mandatory precision of the decree, because I have, frankly, addressed the Ministry of Education of Ukraine dozens of times with a request to provide free education, free training for voters from the poor, orphans, families from my district, 121. And he was constantly denied. And I predict that if a positive decision of the Ministry of Education is voted, there will be more, I apologize for the word, the vendetta, so as not to accept for the free education of children from poor rural families. So I would like to set a clear quota where it would be written that this does not affect the interests of poor citizens of Ukraine, although it is clear that the figure 200 is not large. The other one. Is that what the Cubans want? Maybe they don't want to learn in Ukraine, because I haven't seen in the accompanying documents the request either from the embassy or from the Ministry of Education of Cuba. When that happens, I think, and it'll be a positive vote if we move it to the next one, because there'll be more people and more quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u121	Yes, please, First Deputy Minister of Education Tkachenko Vasil Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u122	The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine supports the draft decision. We have opportunities and we have the determination to support this noble beginning, but we really need to warn. The first thing that students have to do is prepare their language for another year, they have to prepare their courses. We have so far in Ukraine these preparatory courses all pay, so we have to anticipate the cost of both preparation courses and then obviously make a separate adjustment, which is meant annually, starting in 2004-2005 to allocate an additional 200 seats. Then it will become clear that this is not at the expense of our people. That's it. And in general, we'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, you have heard the opinion of the Ministry of Education. She's backing up. The Ministry of Education supports the proposal made by the national deputy Yavorowski. Vladimir Alexandrovich! Yavorowski. Once again, I stress that the proposal made by Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, the Ministry of Education, supports it. Let's make such a point that it's really extra, so that it's not at the expense of those limits and quotas that are set for our government order, but in addition, starting in 2005. This is one moment. And second moment. I think, and I'm particularly talking to factions that for some reason don't vote. Let's think about it and make an exception today. As a result, the honourable colleagues, which is indeed, Cuba -- far from the most developed state in the world -- are providing us with so much help in treating our victims from the Chernobyl disaster and, I think, 200 places we can allocate to teach the Cubans. With the amendment. I ask you to vote on the ruling. It's a 5062-D vote with that amendment, the proposal of the Yavorovsky and the Ministry of Education to add the word "additional" to the list. Please vote. [[12:43:26]] For 211 Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. Vote. We vote again, please support, we vote. [[12:43:48]] For 208 Let's do factions, then we'll vote again. Our Ukraine -55, Ukraine - 35, Communist faction - 54, SDPU - 0, Deminiciates - People's Government - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 11, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, Union - 0, NDP, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5, Ukraine - 6, Center - 0, Postfaction - 4. Dear colleagues! "Our Ukraine" says they didn't make it. Let's vote again, help "Our Ukraine." Vote. [[12:44:44]] For 209 Then let's do it this way, dear fellows. We see that there is a desire to support this decision, and we will vote next Tuesday. Is there no objection? And we're probably going to do the right thing if we take an hour to "Rizzle." Yes. Please write down who wants to participate in a variety of things. Show me, please. Yes, have you studied? Then we do it this way, now we have 12.46. The hour is different. Please, Shershun, follow him Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u124	Mikola Shershun, Ukrainian National Agrarian Party faction. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to start with a famous phrase that frame solves everything. I'd say qualified personnel solve everything. Today, in cities where there is a sea of unemployed lawyers, educators, managers, and in a village with fire, there is no qualified mechanic, locksmith, carpenter, or so forth. Of course, training such professionals in the field of vocational education. But this is a middle-level network that usually has beautiful basic teachers, like Sosnovsky School in my district, today thrown away. From that point on, we're risking losing the labor chain in the state. And that's a disaster. I can be denied today, saying that wherever you want, because there's more and more money on the budget in the trade sector. Yes. But statistics show no real state. Virtually every budget in recent years has met the need of a professional education by only half, with articles such as hardware being covered by only 5 percent. The purchase of materials that actually teach children is barely 1 percent. Current repairs are not entirely funded. The cost of feeding students is reduced each year. Last year, only about six percent were made for the Plains region. And that's because most of the children who study at the schools need social protection from the state, and the institution does exactly what the state does in that direction. So you can talk a thousand times about the love of socially vulnerable types of people, in this case these children, but the reality speaks of something else. That is why I would like to address today all the national deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, personally the Minister of Finance, while there is still an opportunity to increase the expenditure in the 2005 State Budget on trade and technology. Let's do this. In parallel, the government needs to develop a legal mechanism for the interaction of professional and technical institutions with employers. Because the active development of the material and technology base of the employment centers in the already existing network of trade unions seems to be the least strange. This suggests that the centers of employment are created in contrast to the professional world. I am convinced that if the funds allocated by the employment centre were to be used to finance trade and to share the existing base, the outcome of the fight against unemployment in Ukraine would be better and the use of money for order would be more effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u125	Thank you. I'm asking the secretarial staff to copy only those who come in and ask for a copy. One MP comes in, passes the word, if he's present, and he passes it on, copy it. If you are carrying some paper, please do not interfere. Grigorovich has the floor. After her, Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u126	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. From our screens, far from false, official and private channels, you have seen stories about what some of Ukraine's coasts are very concerned about what might happen in Ukraine to be war and social unrest. I would like to remind all of us, especially the coastline of Ukraine, which I think is to continue with the Women for the Future line of what we were taught at school. And in school, all of us were taught for world peace, which means for the people. What is happening to the Ukrainian people today? And the Ukrainian people have been at war for 13 years now, and in other words, criminality. It's going in a few directions. The first trend is socio-economic, the population is down by 2.5 million. Some 8 million were forced to make a living. Migrants, 5 million of them. Women. We have the lowest pay and pension in Europe, but the highest AIDS and tuberculosis rate. The people began to escape, and in the presidential election, they made a choice -- to choose the honest, universal President Viktor Yushchenko. The second direction of war with its people on this side of power or criminality is in the information direction. There's no need to invent anything else, there's an information weapon. And you hear from the TV channels that Yushchenko will give everything to the West. Don’t be afraid, everything is dedicated and destroyed as much as possible. And an American wife. And she is Catherine Chumachenko, daughter of the warrior of the Great Fatherland War of Donbas Andriy Mikhailovich Chumachenka and the ostrich, a young girl from the village of Lipka, Kyivska. The cow of the Ukrainian people came back here to us. How did this regime affect five million women with passports and citizenship who were expelled abroad? When they return, and I believe they will return to Ukraine, they will be Italians, Portuguese, Spanish for us? Shame! The third direction of war is simply the destruction of a national candidate. There was an attempt to kill and poison Victor Yushchenk, the isolation of Yulia Timoshenko. That's why I want to address the so-called shores with the words of women just from a capital letter, and I don't want to use the word "guard" anymore, the wife of Viacheslava Crnovola, Tina Poshko, Nina Marcenko, Nila Crukova, Olga Köbitz, Mikhailina Kocubinski: "Remember, the coast! Take care of what is happening to the Ukrainian people, guard what is happening to our children’s future, and do not stand up for valid authority. Ukraine is peace and quiet, Ukraine is simple. Criminality against its people." Remember, for peace in all the world, this means for the people. For the Ukrainian people, for their interests under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u127	Yes, Anishimov gives the word to Alexei. He's behind him, Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Last week I worked in the Gitomirsk district and was in the Hlybodar residential area, located in the Chernyachiv district of the Žitomir region, and received a statement from the residents of this residential area: "Dear national deputies of Ukraine! We, the residents of the Hlybodar Housing Center of the city-type Chernykhs of the Žitomir Region, are asking you to help us solve our painful problems, namely, the gasification of our array and the village in general. Three years ago, we approached the Supreme Council about human rights violations in our village, as well as the heating system in our homes and in the area of hospitals, we didn't work, and we literally froze in our apartments during the winter, together with our children, and when we got to the hospital, we froze there. All of this was shown on TV, but we're both frozen in our apartments, and we're still freezing. Two years ago, an underwater pipeline was built to our village, a burning torch that the whole country had seen, and that was the end of it. This year, a gas pipeline was built to the district hospital, which was not completed and was not understood when it would be put into service. Without waiting for any help, we set up a quarterly committee to deal with the gasification of our homes at our own expense. So far, all the necessary project documentation has been produced for the construction and installation of the gasification of the housing supply, but there is no gas, regardless of the assurance of the representatives of the reservation. More than four launch dates were assigned to the gas pipeline and the gas pipeline. The last date is Independence Day, and the visa is there now. In addition, the authorities claim that the gas station - also needs to be set up at our expense, as they lack the funds to be accounted for by the pipeline and the distribution of gas. Thus, local authorities help prepare for the winter. The prospects for the fourth year of being alone with their problems are very real. No more promises of authority have people believed and cried out for help to you, our defenders: make the necessary amount of money necessary to complete the first round of gasification of our village -- 1 million dollars -- at the expense of the village council, including the cost of gasification of our budget supply of 100,000 dollars, taking into account the moral indebtedness of the state to its citizens, taxpayers for failing to resolve the issue of heating up the array for four years." I saw with my own eyes, people forced to put gas balloons in their apartments, breaking all the fire safety rules and burning their apartments at the expense of putting bourgeois in them, that is, it's not the 21st century, and it's a feudal age of some kind. So I turned to the Prime Minister today and sent an official request to help people solve the problem that really exists in the Gitomir region in the Chernyachiv region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Secretariat, may I remind you once again, Your Honor, did you approach what you recorded? Stop, please, any censuses, don't copy anyone. What is self - government? Please, Chelnokov, follow him to Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u130	Chelnokov, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovic, distinguished colleagues, I was asked to come to this rostrum by the President of the Veterans Council, and also by the leaders of the Agricultural Society of the Vojkovsky Zgurovsky District of Kiev, who fully felt the beauty of the land reform in Ukraine, as well as the impunity of local officials. Having found themselves, like many non-working farms, in order to ensure harvesting, they were forced to seek out an investor. The investor came forward very quickly in the face of the Society with limited responsibility “Continent” of the town of Slavic and, of course, as any investor promised the farm gold mountains. In fact, by taking all the crops collected in the farm, they not only failed to fulfil their promises but also failed to settle with the villagers for land rations, paid wages and increased their accounts payable. Of course, after such farming at a general congregation of peasants. They decided to cut all ties with the investor and start their own business. Rents were cancelled and registered with the Rural Council in accordance with legislation, new leases with their old economy, Vojkowski. However, with the support of the district administration, with the support of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, most of the land was seized and transferred to the investor's office. By not agreeing with this decision and continuing to fight for their rights, the peasants nevertheless grew and harvested crops on those lands that remained in their possession and began to prepare for the harvest. However, their problems did not end there either. The Regional Executive Service, its representatives, along with militia personnel, arrested all the harvests collected, sealed the premises, and thus placed a serious problem in the seed campaign in the farm and in the calculation of the rations for the paid rations. Of course it's a complete mess. And without the support of any: in local or regional structures, these comrades end their treatment perfectly legally: "Do we really have to go to the villas to protect our constitutional rights?".. In our State, of course, the question is rhetorical. That is why I ask, Adam Ivanovich, to consider this my statement to be a “official parliamentary request for the name of the Attorney-General” in order to examine the legality of the actions of the representatives of the local administration and to restore social justice in the village of Vojkovo Zguryiv Region of Kiev. All necessary documents will be transmitted to the secretariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u131	There's no semenoga. Then Puzakov. After him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u132	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In particular, the so - called radical reforms have caused our army. Today's army is stripped, unarmed, untapped. Every Soviet soldier felt daily that when he was with the gun, behind his back the father, mother, sister, acquaintance, mother, father, that he was their pride, protection, and support. The soldier went into the army because of his sense of duty, and today they are creating an army for money. A soldier who protects his homeland, one, and a mercenary is quite different. Regrettably, the present - day Ukrainian army has no fighting spirit, no patriotism, no company, no honesty. For parents, the service of a son in the army was a pride, and today an army soldier comes either sick or disabled. As an example, I was greeted with tears by a resident of the city of Novokrainka, in the town of Kirovograd, whose son serves as a regular service in the city of Odessa, if you can call it. [[Military liaison 64 at South District headquarters]] But during that time, he ran away from the area, saving his life, even though you wouldn't say it was a boy with a reduced or a mental deviation. The boy was completely healthy, had a technical education, and was raised in a decent family. In such a short period of time, he can't call a single day peaceful, because "grandparent" is terrible. During this time, he suffered a number of bodily injuries from "grandparents." Even forced sexual assault, and when he refused, he was brutally beaten. And when the vodka was in part, the boy was simply afraid that it would end and escaped under convenient circumstances. This is how soldiers go through the service in the sovereign Ukraine. Mother knew nothing about it, but when she came to her son, her mother’s heart told her that something was wrong, her son was pale, silent, looked around, said whispers. The mother asked the commander of the section to conduct a medical examination of her son’s health in her presence, but she was denied. My mother has the full right to go to court, and she told them that she would write a complaint, but they said, "Write at least to the Heavenly Office." But the woman, having suffered insults, heartache, pleaded for her son to be transferred to another military unit. Instead of carrying out tests and treatments, the son was put in a mental institution, and you were put in an army. Who do we give our children to? Isn't there an administration on such woe commanders? So I ask you to count my speech as a parliamentary request to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u133	Yavorovsky has the word. There is already a secretary of defense appointed, our colleague general of the Kuzmuk army. Yavorowski, followed by Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u134	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Unfortunately, I couldn't take six minutes to read my fifth suicide note to President Kuchma, it's already published in the newspaper The Village News. I'm going to do it some other time, and today the subject of my speech is going to be, actually, such a sensational announcement, I would call it. You know how many spears are broken by changing Ukrainian spelling or not changing Ukrainian spelling. They tried to do it several times, and it caused some opposition. So as long as there were philosophers, writers, politicians, in fact, the reform of spelling has already been done. And I just want to get to know our scientists, teachers, so they know all about it. That's what Enakiy's writing through "E" is right. Because, let's say, unity isn't about unity anymore, it's about unity. This is Victor Fedorovich Janukovic offering us this spelling right now. It doesn't say "institute" anymore to remember that, but it's right to write "institute," and Donetsk writes without a soft sign, "premier" is written because of the soft sign and "e", it's completely fresh stuff. Most importantly, scholars, academics, when you write that you are a member of the National Academy of Sciences Presidency, it is wrong. The right thing to do is to write "Member of the Bureau of the Academy of Sciences." One more. For example, Ludmila Alexandrovna, wife of Viktor Fedorovich, should spell "Alexanrovna." And I want to tell you that now there's a new norm when your students write work controls when they enter higher education institutions. So you have to know that if there's 22 mistakes in 46 words, that's the norm. And don't think about putting twos on the kids for that. This is very normal, norm, Victor Fedorovich testified in his questionnaire. And I'm finishing up the main one. I enjoyed this the most, and this is true of scientists today and tomorrow’s scientists. It used to be a very important associate, today a professor. Victor Fedorovich writes a professor in two f's. I don't think it's over yet. We have to put in a rule about what a professor writes through as much f as he is a professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u135	Carmazine. He's right behind him, but I can't see, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u136	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! Yesterday, all of us watched a number of individuals who had emblems, so - called fraternity, locked up in the hall of the CTC. Yesterday, right on the air, we watched them beat our military officers, our officers, the flagmen of the Security Service that you and I gave us to protect these premises. By the way, there are rooms belonging to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I believe that the failure to respond to yesterday's events, the fact that there is no involvement in criminal responsibility, that young people who are governed by the Bank's 11 are being provoked against the Ukrainian people. This is a premeditated fact that is completely linked to what was against "Our Ukraine" in Donetsk, with what was now the attack on Victor Yushchenk and what is now going on in Ivano-Frankivsky. Realizing that Yushchenka was unsuccessful, an attempt is being made to split Ukraine into the West and the East. There's an attempt on the force. Realizing that turning off TV channels and radio channels can't get their way, they go for such serious things. Now I demand that these young men be held criminally accountable, and that those who hold themselves accountable for the less serious things that have happened a few years ago at Shevchenk’s monument be released. This is considered an official request to the Attorney General, to the head of the Security Service, to the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to the Head of Security. Next. We're with the old secretary of defense today. I would like this old minister to forget the brutal methods used during the parliamentary campaign in the army on voting. Stop putting pressure on the military. Recall that the Armed Forces, compared with the Armed Forces of 150 foreign nations, hold 13 seats per number, 28 for part of the Armed Forces to the total population and 127 for military budget costs. Let's change, re-arm the army, create modern social protection systems for the military. That's what I call you, all nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u137	School. After him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u138	School Andrew, Julia Timoshenko's faction, head of UNA-UNSO public organization. I've actually started my speech in a way that's in vain, because lately in Ukraine, mushrooms have started growing, different organizations under different names, which are both Ukrainian nationalism or extremism or xenophobia or any other thing that is not acceptable to morality or ethics or the Ukrainian Constitution. So in principle, I would like to emphasize that the only UNA-UNSO organization that operates in Ukraine, which is legal, which operates within the framework of Ukrainian legislation, is a public organization that I lead. Everything else is about the people, the structures, the managers that hired them. It's Medvedchuk's people, it's the Donetsk people, it's they're controlling them, they're paying them, they're paying them, they're keeping them, they're trying to register them right now, they're putting them on the MPs, they're going to destabilize the situation, they're going to provoke the situation in Ukraine. And all these burning and flaming speeches are to be addressed here because they are direct and hopefully will soon be criminally responsible for all their activities, sales, betrayal, and, most importantly, they will be responsible for what they are inciting, disrupting the situation in Ukraine. Now they're driving around Ukraine, they're making different statements, they're forcing their support to some of the other candidates, they're trying their strength, they're throwing eggs at Ivano-Frankivsky, and they're basically supposed to be strictly called to criminal responsibility. Next. Of course, I can't help but think of the fact that we have a new secretary of defense again. The new Secretary of Defense, I hope we all understand very well that we will have to fly more carefully over Ukraine. Everyone will need to remember that not every house in Barbara is protected. So the most secure is the house that's already got the rocket. I mean, he's never gonna get a rocket again. And I hope that this time the provocation that started in Russia and the Russian Ministry of Defence will finally be against Ukraine last. I mean, first of all, a violation of the right to self-determination of a member of the Supreme Council, because he determines his own conduct, where to stay when to stay, where to go. I'm actually wondering: how do we get to the Russian prosecutor's office to give a witness? They have to come here, bow down, wait long at the reception, kiss the door, and only then come in. This is how an authority that respects itself should act. I'm surprised the Supreme Council didn't react at all, it didn't respond at all. Because once again, how much dirt did Girinowski pour out, how much dirt did Luzkov pour out on Ukraine -- and no action was taken against them, first of all, no one was even declared a non-grat person. I hope that both the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u139	Yes, Manchulenko, follow by Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u140	George Manchulenko, 230 district, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka block. Dear voters! Leonid Kuchma, president of Ukraine, stated to Ukraine that today's presidential election campaign would be the most dirty of all the history of Ukraine. He probably knows what he's talking about. We can mention the provocations against Victor Yushchenk's bloc in Donetsk last year, we can mention the so-called "reelections" in Muchachev, we can mention the provocations in the Trieste market that hit power, not those that staged this provocation. But Leonid Kuchma as president of Ukraine probably knows what he's talking about. He probably knows that the roots of all this, the conductors of all these provocative actions are sitting in his presidential administration on Bank Street. Sadly, though, he does nothing to stop these provocations. He said no words of sympathy to Victor Yashchenk and his family for almost killing him by poisoning him. Viktor Janukovic, as a candidate for the office of President, did not comment on this, as he did not comment on the case of the Donetsk provocations, as he did on the Mukatsev event, as he did on the provocations in the Trieste market. This indicates that those who conduct these provocative actions, using dirty technologies of “the soil” and “the marats”, know what they are doing. And unfortunately, the President of Ukraine, as the guarantor of the Constitution, is helping to do so. Our voters, the Ukrainian people, should know that dirty technologies, provocations in "Our Ukraine" will not pass. Only when we are alone will we be the only family, the only nation we will be, the only fist we will be against is the dirty and provocative actions of power now in force in Ukraine. And we'll be able to put in those who've lost it, who thinks they're already there. God for the beard, and people for the cattle, we can put them in place, and they will answer by law before the Ukrainian people. I am addressing all the voters in Ukraine: let's unite in one force, let's win with Victor Yashchenk, and the bandits will sit in prison. And the Ukrainian person will feel like he's a full master of the Ukrainian land, and no one will abuse us anymore, along with Victor Yashchenk, we will win and bring the order in the Ukrainian house, along with Yushchenek, to the victory of the entire Ukrainian people over the bandits, and the provokers who are not in the Ukrainian state. Hail Yushchenk, glory to the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u141	The word is given by the national deputy Novak, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u142	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction of Ukraine, Hmelnichtina I was forced to come out to this rostrum by my constituents, especially the young ones with whom they regularly address meetings in the district. Of all the rostrums, TV screens, newspapers, and newspapers, powerful men are crying out about how life has improved during the years of independence in Ukraine, how government youth policy has been established at the political, legislative, and organizational levels. And what a tremendous achievement our young people have seen as changing. That she said much more than older people support market transformations. What is observed is the high level of youth support for private property and entrepreneurship institutions, which have greatly increased the needs of young people, a qualitative change in their perception of a decent standard and lifestyle. That many young people yearn to have their own sources of income. And it is not said at all, but what is happening to young people in Ukraine? The reality is that today, after graduating from school, a young person remains alone in this life with all his problems. If, even if you're very capable, but you're poor, or your parents can't afford to pay for your education in a higher education -- higher education for you will remain an unattainable dream. Having a job is also extremely difficult. The labor market is full of highly qualified specialists who have found themselves behind closed-circuit factories. They offer their services. Of course, an entrepreneur chooses them, not a young person who still needs to be taught. This is what fills young people with rows of unemployed ones. The same is true of college graduates. They have diplomas, but without employment, they also have to fill the ranks of the unemployed. Hence its passivity, indifference, and increase in crime, and drug addiction. And look what's going on in the country. If there is any chance of earning a piece of bread in the city, in the dying village, young people are thrown away in the first place, and no enlightenment is being followed for the better. The problem of youth, the problem of the unemployed, we see and hear every time we meet in the districts. But it can be solved only on one condition: a change of power. And I say with all my responsibility, if those who really think about young people, about the people, about the state, and not about their own pockets come to power, then the issues of social protection of all the unprotected segments of the population will be solved. I suspect that today’s authorities need young people only for a period of election to vote. We Communists, our candidate for Presidents, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, are constantly stressing that we need honest power, an authority that understands that young people are the future of Ukraine, an authority that will ensure decent life for young people and for all people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u143	The word has been given by the national deputy Boki. Behind him is the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u144	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This morning, you heard our faction's statement regarding the harsh fall of a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Eugene Reddenka, against Alexander Moroz, who was accused of almost being accused of poisoning Victor Yushchenk. We awaited official apologies and official objections to Eugene Red. Here was George Carmazin, and thanks to him, on behalf of him, I understand, parts of the faction, parts of the honest, normal, decent people have recanted this information, but we have not heard a denial from any of the leaders of the Yushchenka electoral headquarters and from this electoral structure as such. So I have to say again today that this statement by Eugene Red from the beginning is false and provocative. Unfortunately, we notice that from time to time, especially I would say, from Tuesday in the election campaign, there was some clear cranium, and it's understandable because Alexander Moroz came out in the election race to 2nd place. And that people continue to hang their ears, that the other goes to Viktor Janukovich, and they really want this two-viktoriad to be so, it's clear that there's already a war going on for any of the Frosts to get kicked out of the second round of election races. And you can see that a part of "Our Ukraine" fell for this and agreed to that, essentially imposed by Banking Helman and Pavlovsky, election strategy and participates in these provocative statements. We believe that not all Ukraine thinks so. We think it's the other way around, but we'd like to hear the official point of view. And the second. What happened today in Ivano-Franksky is, of course, we understand perfectly why it happened. We have long warned that provocations are being prepared, including provocations with participation, let's say, the main favorites of the presidential race. As you know, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is now mass issuing cover passports for participants in these provocations. I'm more than convinced that in Ivano-Frankivsk it was the owners of such cover passports that Mr. Bilokin and his team issued in order to organize such provocations during the election campaign. And I would like to warn the voters once again that we need to be vigilant in these matters and understand well who is behind them and who is behind them. This is followed by a handful of people who do not want to leave power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u145	The word has the national parliament of the Hare, the one John. He'll be followed by Taran instead of the cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! Ivan Hare I went to this rostrum with open heart and great concern for the fate of Ukraine, for our citizens. Next week we'll be working in the districts, and that's good. I invite all of you to really move around the villages and cities and to explain to people what is really going on in Ukraine, which is creating this criminal regime: that is a day of provocation, that is a day of threats, that is a day of lies on the heads of our citizens. And who does that? The governing authorities and those who sing to her in this room. Today, from this rostrum, Ukrainian National Deputy Coloniari, a representative of the "Regions" faction, links the incident in Ivano-Frankivsky with the Yushchenka team. But I'm taking an official message from Interfax, where it says that the head of the Department of Public Affairs, Tetjana Podashevska, reported that it was just an egg that was thrown into the Prime Minister, but now you can see that she's contradicting, saying that I was in a hurry to say it and so forth. I mean, whatever it is, it's bad, but you don't have to do these provocations today to split the West and the East again, put them on each other again. People good, you have to understand, what happened to Yashchenk was a tragedy, because Yashchenka wanted to get out of the election race because they knew that Yushchenko would win and the Mafia would cut off the tail. But what's happening now in Ivano-Frankivsky is a comedy. So we have to stop this power and think about the unity of the Ukrainian people, the citizens. I was recently in the Cherkas region. Where I'm going, some complaints, some bullying. And these days they give seed in a pie, that its cow shall never eat, and the authorities shall keep silent and watch; and so shall they. teachers to go and campaign for a representative of power, the authorities stand and watch and there is nothing like it; they intimidate people into leaving work if they vote for Yashchenka, not for Yanukovich or for someone else. So what I'm saying is that this authority is going to go from its rostrum on October 31st, because today it doesn't deserve the trust of the people. And the one who today scares people that he will be deprived of his job if he votes for Yushchenka will go. Therefore, dear friends, we have unity today. We have a responsibility for our people today, and Victor Yushchenko is sure to win. And if he wins, this mob won't have any good. So I would like to address you, honourable national MPs, do not set this enmity on fire, do not undermine one another's electorate, we need unity more than ever. You know. What a thief always screams, huh? Hunting a thief. This is, now, these thieves who stole the money, now they want to save themselves with a lie, just to eat the democratic forces on top of each other. Don't believe these liars! We will win and be the famous Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u147	The word has been given by the national deputy Taran, behind him Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear radio listeners! Victor Terrence, Victor Timoshenko's Block. From the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, which is part of Victor Yushchenka's Block, I also express my sincere regret at the fact that the national MP, Czervonenko, has given in somewhere, you know, to the propaganda that is being heated up at Yanukovich headquarters all the time. At first, such provocative ideas as Janukovic used to say would not go to the polls but would go to Kuchma. And that's when Kuchma was so happy to talk about, well, you see, how we bought you, I was deliberately saying that to keep the criticism from the government. And now they're casting shadows on Frost. I want to say that what happened is not Ice cream. It's a thief's handwriting, it's the thief thieves in the law, it's the thief's handwriting of those who killed Julius, it's the killer of Guy Gongadze, it's the murderer of Viacheslav Cranovola, and it's those who are trying to get arrested by the Russian Attorney's Office today to isolate Julia Timoshenko from society. And I want to stop at that a little bit more detail. I mean, our prosecutor's office, who's already filed a lot of petitions for Julia Timoshenko, the ridiculous and unwarranted, has now sought the help of the brother's attorney's office on everything, as they say, "a thin intestine." But not only is it provocative and totally unfounded in the annual Russian prosecutor’s office, but it is also an insult to Ukraine as an independent state. You can imagine how Russia would have reacted if the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office had decided to arrest some Russian faction leader in the State Duma or, say, Putin. How would the Russian Ministry of Justice react? Like, say, the United States would react if the Russian prosecutor decided to arrest a senator or, say, Bush. So this is completely absurd. This provocation is one in line with how today, I'm going to do it again as a shadow of the Frost is cast. This is an attempt to deal with the political leaders in Ukraine, and this is mainly about how they tried to poison Victor Yushchenk because he's the biggest candidate. Because now we know he's ahead of Yanukovich by more than 10 percent. And there is nothing left for the authorities to provoke and disrupt the situation, the social situation in Ukraine. And I'd like to say, and I'd like to ask Reverend Yanukovich. When he says that someone is destabilizing Parliament, it seems like a person has, excuse me, a separation of personality. Because it's his faction of the "Ukraine" that's not taking part in Parliament's work. The faction of SDPU(o) does not participate in Parliament's work and does not vote even when it comes to children with disabilities, etc. And when I finish my short speech, I want to say that the power is engendering, we're all going to win together. Our political leaders, who are proud of the nation, will prevail. And there is no doubt that Yushchenko will win. And then the answer will be to all those who order and these provocations that we're talking about, and the future provocations, and who organizes Corchinsky, which means they're going to the C.V.C., it all goes down, and we're going to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u149	The word has the national deputy Stojko. Lucenko's gone. Get ready, Chewbacca.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u150	Thank you. John Stoyko, People's Movement, Victor Yushchenka's block. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Last week we survived, we can safely call it poison. This was the most feared step by Ukrainian society, led by Kuchma, Medvedczuk, Yanukovic. Today’s authorities have resorted to the physical destruction of the favorite of the pre - election races of the leader of the popular trust of Yashchenk, who are indifferent to human life, who are willing to kill, poison, and strangle for their own self - preservation. Is it fascism that can be viewed in a calm way? No, it's not. We have no right to be indifferent. That's why, on October 18th, Ukrainian society showed its indifference by coming out of the more than half a million-million-dollar community on the territory of Ukraine to listen to Victor Yushchenk, thereby expressing its support, came out despite provocations by local princes who turned off the light so as not to receive the signal from Kiev, to cut the screens with the help of purchased young people, so as not to allow people to hear the truth about the current Ukrainian reality from the leader of the coalition "The Force of the People - Yushchenko!" But we have broken through their criminal information blockade, the people have learned about violence and lies, provocations, the agony of power, for which elections will be the final judgment, after which they will not be able to hide or flee abroad, they will have to be held accountable for what has been done to people who have disappeared without news, for the killed journalists and politicians, for the undeclared war against the Ukrainian people, for the stolen childhood and old age, for the destroyed villages, for the destitute life. Therefore, Ukrainians today do not believe in the taxes that Yanukovic is now giving them before the elections. That's what it was when we were 99, and we remember. Meanwhile, Janukovic and Kuchma see the Supreme Council as an island of destabilisation in Ukraine. Why, she asks? Probably. They do not think that obedient deputies will always stand before them on their knees, and what will they be able to break the parliament's work, or maybe start it? But it didn't work. Instead, the Supreme Council has set up a commission to monitor the electoral race, which is uncomfortably neither Cuchma nor Janukovich, because they do not want to see fair elections. This is evident from the collection of signatures for twice already innocent Yanukovich under pressure, intimidation, and even for a glass of vodka. Television is now working for a successful candidate. So those pseudo-communists and pseudo-patriots released by Yakovenko and the Cossacks are sent away. Don't believe them! That is why Ukrainians today want to change. 80 percent really want them and see these changes, just like they do with Victor Yashchenk. So we will not be deceived, we will defend our right to choose, to choose without forging, and to choose a future European life! Let's come to the polling station on October 31st and say no to today's regime! "No" Yanukovich! And so, the future! Yes, Yuschen!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u151	The word has been given by the national deputy Yultak. Rudzkowski, Spodarenko is missing. Prepare Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u152	Eugene Jovtjak, Viktor Yushchenka faction, party group of the Ukrainian People's Party, Kiev-Swiatoshinsky and Irpine constituency. Dear voters! Tonight, a devastating attack was carried out on the premises of the city council of the city of Vyshrod. Detained city head and his deputy. The reason for the dispute over the mayor and his deputy is that, during the election trip, Yushchenka did not hide herself in the gates as in other cities, but along with the national candidate. together with the people met the popular candidate Victor Yushchenk. The highlanders, who spent the entire night under the miscowiconian premises, are convinced that by the end of this criminal regime, five weeks remain. The bandits who sent law enforcement officers into these illegal activities will be in prison. The Ukrainian people will not be intimidated. I would like to say that the methods used by this criminal authority do not differ from the originals. We have seen this many times when the mayors of cities, the disgruntled authorities, are given up arms, the money they allegedly took in bribes, drugs, and other unclean practices. But people understand that this is a provocation of power, they support their mayors, and they will come along to victory over this criminal regime. In the second part of my speech, I would like to put a stop to the problem of increasing pensions. I want to go to the pensioners that the convicted criminal stench wants to buy twice in order to turn Ukraine into one big zone. Dear pensioners, take this money, it's your money, it's only part of what you've been stealing for decades, "drunks", "surkisses", "medvedchuks", "pinchuks". But understand that Janukovic is telling the lie when he says that his government is setting up pension funds in the budget, so here in my hands are 2 volumes submitted by the government to the budget, where on the other hand, clearly, the government's payroll fund provides 113 billion dollars and in the second volume, on page 348 clearly shows that the income of the pension fund is 35 billion. This means that what is budgeted is the payment of pensions at today's rate of no increase. And the money they want to pay you today before the first tour and before the second tour is the money that was stolen by Pinchuk and Yanukovitch Krivoriztali, which was given to Pinchukov and Yanukovich for 4 billion. Dear pensioners, Yushchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u153	The word has the national deputy of Loboda, Winsky, and Belarus — absent. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People’s Deputies, Honourable Voters, today the medical community is concerned about the worsening of social tension that has arisen since the entry into force of the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act on 1 January of this year. In many appeals, health workers express disappointment and sometimes indignation at the law’s position. For most pensioners in the medical sector, the increase in the number of pensions is only 10, 30. A surgeon who worked for 50 years gets a pension today at 200, 250 bucks. During 13 years of independence, the work of doctors has been undervalued. Yes, the average salary for Kiev today is 950 dollars, and only 423 dollars for health care. With the lowest wage among other sectors, medical workers also have the lowest pension. The new pension system has become much more violent and particularly complicates the material situation of today's medical retirees, and working doctors, nurses who over 50 years of age can no longer participate in the formation of a second level of retirement and can participate in non-state pension funds. A special complaint in medical retirees has prompted the application of the Second Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of November 20, 2003. Medical personnel have reason to believe that the government has unlawfully reduced the average wage by 70 dollars and violated the constitutional rights of citizens. As a result of the adoption of this decree, a large part of the pensioners ’ pensions are artificially underprivileged. This pension reform is not for today’s pensioners but for future generations. Who, though, will guarantee that today, with a demeaningly low level of wages, health - care professionals will be able to change the current situation? As the candidate for the Ukrainian Presidents insists, the head of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, cannot agree that the shortcomings of the government and the Pension Fund should be translated into the hands of the medical workers themselves. With a view to solving the problems that have been noted and taking into account the staff's appeal, I ask the government to take all possible steps to improve the difficult and unhelpful socio-economic situation of Ukrainian medical personnel. And my speech is considered a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u155	The word has been given to the national deputy of Shurma. Nikolainka, Melniczuk is gone. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u156	The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine highlights the extremely dangerous situation that has arisen in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the approaching presidential elections. [[united]] We pay attention to the public's insistent efforts by individual political forces to turn parliament into an arena of political trade, and, more precisely, into the arena of political pyar. Any question raised for consideration by the single legislative body is politicized. The speeches of the well - known political forces are openly provocative. Overwhelming and criticalism and thus having nothing to do with the content of the concept of "legislature." With this approach to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party cannot agree. [[united]] And that is the situation that dictates the faction's position with regard to the voting of bills. The faction emphasizes that our position is not to block Parliament's work as you can hear, but to the very opposite, to repair normal legislation. The session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not a rally ground, and it's not a market anymore. We are convinced that the use of the parliamentary rostrum for political purposes is unacceptable and, therefore, cannot be taken properly by the healthy political forces that are governed by the interests of the State and the people in their activities. At the same time, we understand the importance of the moment of parliamentary life, the budget for the following year, and the very important social laws. In response to the responsibility of the Ukrainian people, the faction of SDPU(o) will take part in the voting of issues that are budgetary and social, but not explicitly populistic. The faction of Social Democrats takes a sharp stand against the unmotivated political retreats that allow themselves to be reported on in the bill from this rostrum, and separately against the announcements of political manifestations instead of leading to a known sessional committee decision room. [[United]] An example of this is yesterday's speech by the head of the budget committee of the Prashenka, a member of the faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Dustenko used a 20-minute regulatory time to express the committee's opinion on the State Budget project exclusively for political agitation in favour of his own political power. At the same time, he blames the government for nonprofessionalism. In fact, such practices have become a norm for Dustenka. The faction refers to Parliament's leadership, which under the Rules has every reason and opportunity to prevent similar developments. We fully share yesterday's message: the parliamentary committee is not just that much head, but in advance a group of professional national MPs. The SDPI faction, taking into account the state of politicization, calls for political contradictions that arise in the course of legislative work to be recorded at the level of processing on the committees and not to use the parliamentary rostrum to declare political manifestations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u157	The cloud. You don't? Then please, Določko is gone, Semenjuk. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u158	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I would like to make a request from a member of Parliament from this rostrum in connection with the physical injury inflicted on the chief of staff of the Chevchenkov district, Yakushenko Svetlani Ivanovni, yesterday evening at 10 p.m., by documents stolen. I ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs to intervene in this matter. And I'm also asking the Minister of Education, who today can still change the situation that has arisen with the exclusion of students at the National Agrarian University in Suma, who is creating a union of independent students, Stephen Alexander, who is excluded from the university for just one reason: he's creating an independent trade union. Just for that. That they went up against the faction, against the actions of the SDPU in the Suma region, particularly in Suma. That is why I would like my speech to be considered a matter for the Ministry. Today, we hear a great deal from this rostrum about the intimidation that comes to the leaders of the election headquarters. I want to answer. No intimidation will replace our configured ones. In order to change the situation in Ukraine, change the power of honest people who will be able to bring order and move away from the power of the criminal authorities who now rule Ukraine. Hypocrisy is present today, and this is what the rostrum said. Remember, dear colleagues, who stayed in the hall. last year, Mr. Janukovic submitted a draft law repealing the Civil Savings Act. Today, in his programs and performances around him, it sounds like he's going to come back almost immediately. The question is: I have filed and said that this law should be repealed, because when Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz, together with us as members of the Supreme Council, passed this law, we talked about the fact that we are making commitments to all parliaments at that time, and whatever political forces would not come for the next period, they would be obliged to return the savings to the citizens. Mr. Janukovic, only when he came to power, had already proposed to abolish him. But when elections are to be held, he promises to do so. The second thing I'd like to mention. Today, the President has called it that he has suspended the privatization of the Odessa port, the Shrineman and so on. Believe me, this pause is just an act of step that I, as the head of the Special Monitoring Commission, have turned to the world markets, to the global community with the fact that in Ukraine privatization is going illegally, not legally. But the main thing is that the results of privatization will be reviewed. Both the Law on Reprivatization and the Nationalization Act will be adopted and stated.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u159	The word is given by the national deputy Gurov. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u160	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The draft consolidated budget presented by the Cabinet of Ministers yesterday gave rise to a wide range of views of the MPs, from total hostility to warm approval. I believe that this is a normal working process in our Parliament. And he agrees with Azar’s statement that there is no perfect solution for humans to be wrong. But the task of minimizing these errors and adopting a balanced, socially oriented, maximizing economic development that takes fully into account the needs of the regions of Ukraine, the State budget for 2005. In my view, the project presented has a significant advantage over the budgets of the past years. This is primarily a third increase in income. Most importantly, the social dimension is 55 per cent. And in return, they're saved. It's not every voter's pain. Six billion grevens are provided for. And that's more than in the previous budgets combined. The Government's intention is to increase the minimum wage, allocate $700 million to computerization of vocational schools. To compensate early unpaid allowances, salaries of teachers and academic and pedagogical workers, to increase by 2.5 times the number of scholarships to students, or to a mass of other issues that have not been resolved for many years. But I'd like to say about a friend, as they used to say, though. Now, look at the provisions of the project that are most concerned about my constituents, the poachers, the inhabitants of the 800th-thousandth-thousandth-city trainee, the largest iron and ore producer in the city of Curve Horn. This is primarily the case with regard to the methodology of disbursements and the formation of the local budget. For example, an amount of income was clearly overestimated for the calculation of inter-budget transfers. Grieve. And the transfer is 53 million. From the city's income to the central budget, which is more than 7 million in 2004. A terrible figure is higher than in 2004, think about it! by 70 millionOh, my God! Growth is 27.5 percent. While the average for Ukraine is 12 per cent. In order to meet these targets, it is necessary to raise the average wage per city to 1,100 bracelets. It's 790. Which, of course, is desirable, but it's not realistic. Therefore, the income figure is 325 million. Demands clarification, it needs to be reduced in accordance with the actual capabilities of this city, the city of the worker. In addition to overestimating income, insufficient resources have been invested in the budget area, estimated at 94 million per cent of the project's total income. Grieve. The calculations also show that a targeted subsidy of 50 million is needed to sustain health and education development. I think the city's got one of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u161	Thank you. The cloud, followed by Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u162	Stepan Cloud, Julia Timoshenko's block faction, Fatherland's Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! President of Ukraine's electoral campaign is getting more and more internationalized. It's not enough that our Ukrainian mob under President Kuchma's patronage is doing everything to make the election the most dirty, as he repeatedly claims. We're making more and more provocations by using force structures, and we know that in May of this year, President Kuchma went to Russian President Putin to remove Yulia Timoshenko from the political arena. And finally, we saw that the Russian mob was supporting a solidarity Ukrainian mob. Persecuting its beneficial interests, he tries to influence Ukraine’s electoral company more and more. And it is in this context that we have to consider this shameful, brutal provocation that the Russian Attorney General's Office has brought upon us, first a criminal case against Julia Timoshenko, and then, by trying to provoke her to Moscow, and thus, it's a completely unheard of fact, an attempt to dictate to Ukraine how to deal with our politics is unheard of in international practice. And I'd like to say here, I'd like to say here, a few days ago, that's why one of the leaders of a mob, a criminal group, was flying to Moscow, and it was called the Social-Democratic Party. [[united]] We know that, but you're about to end it. The Ukrainian people will not allow you to hold on to your authority. The power system will change. And as for Julia Timoshenko, I would like to state that we will not allow it. Let the hair of her head fall. Julia Timoshenko, this should be known by all, working very actively in the pre-election campaign. Tens of thousands of voters meet with her every day. Sadly, though, our false media does not report this information at all to make sure that people do not know who or how it works. Anyway, we're going to win, we're going to win, and democracy in Ukraine is going to prevail, and it's going to benefit both Ukraine, and the Russian people, who are suffering no less than Ukrainian, from their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u163	The word is given by the national deputy Solomonine. Follow him, Ratushnjak, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u164	Yuri Solomatin, secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, a faction of Communists. Dear Niggers! Our faction has always supported the fair demands of the Chernobylites regarding the implementation of the Chernobyl laws. These laws were passed in February 1991 during the Soviet times and took into account the possibilities of a huge Soviet budget. In 1991, the HCHR and the All-Ukrainian referendum on December 1st, the annual funding of Chernobyl laws was about 60 percent. But in the coming years, it's down to 35, 25, and now it's only 20 percent. That is why it is vital to make careful use of what is now incapacitated and independent of the Ukrainian State. At the request of the Chernobyl public, the Supreme Council adopted a decree in April of this year recommending that the President of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine resume the activities of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine, a separate central executive branch of the Chernobyl branch. Finally, the president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, issued a decree in June of this year, but the government slowed down its implementation. Last week, I made an attempt to conduct a parliamentary request through the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine for this reason, in view of the delay in the implementation of the Presidential Decree of 6 July 2004 “On the restructuring of the Ministry of Ukraine on emergency situations and on the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the Ministry of State and the Ukrainian Committee on Disaster Management”. It's been three months, but unfortunately, the cart is there now. To date, the 2005 budget process has begun. The absence of a clear definition of the powers of the State, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy, and other central executive authorities to deal with the problems associated with Chernobyl has led to misunderstandings in the 2005 budget assignment. In this regard, we insist: First, give the task of expediting the processing and validation of the status of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and assigning the Head of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine at the proper time. We have an understanding of your support, and you support us in this matter, you honorable blacksmiths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u165	Please, Ratchet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u166	Can I talk to you for a second? Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, radio listeners, I ask that you consider this to be a parliamentary request and that the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs immediately violate the criminal case and stop the criminal activity of those people who have provoked in Donetsk against the headquarters of "Our Ukraine" who today have provoked against the Prime Minister in Ivano-Frankivsky, who, in the interval between these events, have thrown the eggs of Soros and made the eggs of a group of national MPs in Mukachevo. I also consider it appropriate for the Minister of Justice of Lavrinovich to submit to the Supreme Court for the cessation of such fascist organizations as the Brotherhood and others who corrupt our state, bear fascist slogans and are financed by Medvedchuk and Banka. The other one. I would like to draw attention to the continuation of the criminal activity of the Zacarpathian District Administration, the SDPU, its Governor Rizak, who also, according to Leonid Makarovich, did not do the doghouse in his life. I respect Leonid Makarovich for being a trusted person of Surkis, who had previously been interned by the President of Ukraine, as president, but today all entrepreneurs pay you taxes. Every night, when a taxi driver comes into service at Chopsky Customs, your case is filled with $100,000. Every entrepreneur pays cash and cash. Today, by the way, the Uzhgorod National University is holding elections on Friday. Eight professors were intimidated. They are threatened with physical destruction and their families. They all came from a distance in favor of the esdepast Russell Vasil Ivanovich. The Attorney General's Office would like to protest such elections and file a criminal case based on the fact of the intimidation of the professor. Carpentering is a state of terror. And when honorable Leonid Danilovich says he's fighting terror, I say that we've been living under the terror of SDPU(o) in the Zakarpatsky region since 1996. And so I will even ask the United Nations to introduce United Nations troops to protect the Carpathians from a terrorist organization whose name is SDPU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u167	Please, a line. The storm. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u168	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I don't know which political party, because I'm tired of watching him go from "Our Ukraine" to the regions, to the non-fractional ones, but that's his personal right, that's his position. I would like to say that the address and return to Leonid Macarovich's words about the fact that there are MPs who did not build the dog house, they applied to Jaroslav Kendzior, and those words were addressed to him by Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk. And as for the Zakarpat crime scene, it really is. I don't know who's fueling it, they're saying that there's such a name as "War," I don't know who it is, but this person is really terrorizing this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-24-m0.u169	Yes, respected colleagues, all who signed up and wanted to participate. To speak on the "Victory" issues, they had the opportunity to do so. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I remind you that next week we are working in the districts, and the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on October 5th, of course, this year.
