ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:01:42]] Registered -427 There were 427 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues scheduled for your meetings today, you have, we will proceed to the consideration of matters. Sign the procedure, three minutes. Please, Bespali, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u2	I ask you to pass the word to George Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u3	Manchulenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u4	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the faction of "Our Ukraine" has repeatedly asked questions about the review in the session hall, and especially now, on the eve of the information on the budget implementation report of last year, our draft law that Victor Yushchenko introduced on budget-2004 and the withdrawal from the shadow of the huge amount of money that our experts have calculated by about 10 billion. That's right. And we insist that this issue be included and that we look at it essentially, because we already have an example of the revision of the 2003 budget, although the government said that money would not be sufficient in the amount that was foreseen by the Parliamentary Committee and is now in a similar situation. And these payouts can go to social problems, pay raises, pensions, funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u5	You son of a bitch. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u6	Fucking Communist faction. Please give the floor to the leader of our Communist faction Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u7	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u8	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you! If any of you have not heard the terrible report that came this morning from Iraq: Americans have shot the wedding and killed about 50 people, peaceful people in Iraq! We're still, so to speak, looking in secret yesterday or on a closed question about the withdrawal from Iraq of our military, we've heard all the cynicism from the Secretary of Defense and all those who have talked about the necessity of our military presence in Iraq. The Communist faction is strongly protesting and will do everything to get our military out of Iraq immediately and to save the lives of those young people who have gone there to do the wrong thing for the military. The faction suggests that we postpone everything and return to the question and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u9	Please, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! I want to draw your attention personally from our Dem. Initiatives. The people are on the agenda for the reform of the Armed Forces. We don't take them any more. The armed forces can't wait. There's a reduction in the law. People get fired without housing. I propose today, today precisely, to adopt these bills, in so far as they are ready, and to put an end to this lawlessness. People are waiting for this law, believe me, all the Armed Forces are waiting. I strongly ask that we consider these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u11	Well, come on, please, we'll continue for five more minutes. I see a forest of hands. Please, Boki, follow him, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u12	Please give the word to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u13	Please, it's Frost's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! By supporting what Peter Mikolaiovich said in Iraq, I also draw your attention to another problem. Not once again included in the agenda of the issue of the attempt to privatize the Kriboristal. An enterprise that generates 30 percent of its profitability, more than half a billion dollars of income, 15 percent of its output! How can an object that is a support of the State’s budget be placed in private hands? Well, we don't understand that, people good, I'm addressing all the deputies. It is imperative to vote on the matter in the order of the day and to consider it in substance. There is a positive committee decision, expressed by faction leaders on the Conciliation Council. It's all clear. Well, the robbery goes out on a clean day, on a clear day, and we keep our mouths shut, answering the problem!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u15	Please, Belarus, get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u16	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that today, George Gongadze could have had his birthday, and I want to remind you that today, the country is moving solely to a fascist scheme of influence on the opposition and on the population. Today, Ukraine’s authorities have turned to cynical persecution, brutal harassment, and the destruction of political opponents. As an example, yesterday at the hospital, a sick woman who was actually in intensive care was arrested by OMON directly in the hospital. In 1937 this was not allowed! Dear colleagues, if we don't get up and say, "No Fascism!"Fascism will reign in our country. I ask that we all now mention Georgia Gongadze a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u18	Please sit down. Please, dear. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have a great deal of legislation to consider. And I would also like to draw your attention to Bill 3675-1, which is called: "Improving Amendments to the Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine", second reading. [[on the number of persons]] I would ask that this law be reconsidered as soon as possible, because this law concerns a very important and serious category: the discussion is that, under this law, the status of the parties to the war and the relevant social guarantees will be given to members of the war with imperialist Japan. This category of people is not that many and not so many, but I think we have to answer. Regrettably, under the proposed agenda, that would be quite late. I fear that this law will not be reviewed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u20	Please, Karmazin. Prepare Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u21	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". The honourable national deputies, the honourable chairman, all the questions they have just asked are very important. I'd like to stop your attention on the proposals by Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz concerning "Cruviestali." We, People's Deputies Karmazin, Gurov and School, passed Bill 2405-15 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Objects of State Property Rights Unprivatized. In connection with this bill, it is proposed that the list “Criminal. ” Motivation is very simple. This object at world prices costs between $5 billion and $7 billion to the United States. There is an attempt on the family’s part to embrace it today. So let's put this project in the order of the day 2405-15 as well as the question of the withdrawal of troops from Iraq.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u22	Please, Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u23	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, you can see in the room that there's unity about what needs to be put in the order of the day, and you can look at the question of "Crowrystall." And there's a document from our faction, and the Communists made an offer. That's the first one. And the second. Our faction demands that today the issue of the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq be reconsidered. I asked questions yesterday, and let's say the Deputy Foreign Minister, and the Secretary of Defense, whether it's aggression or not, let's say, in Iraq. I didn't get an answer. Cynically, both left, let's say, to answer these questions. This is what upsets me as it does all the honest people in Ukraine. I would like to draw attention to what Peter Mikolaiovich was talking about today. If the Americans are acting like that in Iraq, we need them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, let's do this. I propose that you and I consider the first question of 5,540 on the permanent termination of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy of Zločevsky, and then you and I will find out about the proposals that have been made here. We will certainly put it to a vote. I can't take breaks, I need a written statement on my break. Again. Dear colleagues, now. Listen to my offer, please. I would now like to consider the question at number 5540 on the timely termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Zlocevski, and then to put to the vote those proposals that have just been made. I ask you to exchange your thoughts, three minutes, on the proposals, so that we can consider the question of putting an end to the mandate of the national deputy of Zločevski. Please sign up. Please, three minutes, Carmazin. Prepare Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u25	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! It is perfectly normal for an MP to file an application for authority in connection with the appointment of the Head of the State Committee on Natural Resources. But it is totally insane when the chairman, the regulatory committee, does not bring the issue to an end, and the co-conspirators today are in the Supreme Council Hall. It is absolutely insane that we have today both vice-ministers and ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers for how long, eight or nine months, they are in these positions and other co-conspirators. So I would like to hear from you right now, as chairman, Adam Ivanovich, what you have done to carry out your responsibilities as head of the Constitution. The regulatory committee may also be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u26	Please, Samofalov. Get ready for Radion's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u27	Samofalov, Party of the Regions, Deputies of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I think this is a problem that needs to be widened a little bit today. Why should we today consider depriving a single MP of more than a dozen? Let's pack up everyone and vote for everyone so that there's no political effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u28	Please, Rodionov. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u29	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to the leader of the Simonenko faction Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u30	Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u31	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! There is no doubt in the faction of Communists that a constitutional requirement must be voted on. There is a state office in Zločevski, which he embraces today. And he must be deprived of the mandate of the People's Deputy. But I'm getting my attention again. Dear colleagues, dear friends, the main issues today are exactly the problems that we Communists are putting in order to solve positively, is to call off the military from Iraq. And then all the problems that have to do with our inner lives are solved by voting, by any proposal, by any law or by any law. And I say again and again that we, the faction of Communists, will do everything to make it urgent. So what I'm asking is, let's vote in secret, so no one has to depend on the Banking Authority, the President's Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u32	Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u34	Ice cream microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u35	Dear MPs, dear Adam Ivanovich! The fact that MPs who reconcile their positions with others in the government should be deprived of their parliamentary powers does not call into question. In the practice of our work as Head of Parliament, we have decided on this issue in the working order, with regard to all the accomplices, regardless of their position. We must continue this practice today. The other one. I'm going back to the question of our soldiers in Iraq. We held a closed meeting last night in vain, and there was no need. Parliament was determined only to include this issue in the order of the day, because there were no votes. Obviously, the subsidiaries of the administration still serve those who don't want to deal with this issue in fact today. Again, I go back to the question of “Criminal.” Ukraine’s economic security prospects are being resolved today. Let us not be indifferent. This question must be put in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there were references to the presiding officer. I share those proposals that have been made especially by the People's Deputy of Carmazin, which are indeed constitutional requirements, the rules of direct action of the Constitution regarding the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate. I think if we're going to take this question up now, I see that we're going to take this question up and then we're going to go back to the proposals that occurred in the so-called gap. I think the committee will provide comprehensive information on other national MPs. With regard to the offer of a national deputy, a colleague of Samofal, we may have to wait a year or so for all to submit applications. And if there's a statement, if the profile committee has considered it, then you and I should look at it in the session room, without waiting for other applications to come forward. So let's do it this way, dear fellows. Now we're going to look at this question, and then we're going to go back to the proposals that were echoed by representatives of the various MP factions. Is there no objection? Thank you. The question of the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Zločevski, registration number 5540, is then discussed. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u37	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, first of all, I think it's necessary to give an answer to a colleague from the faction of "Our Ukraine," who makes constant accusations to the regulatory committee, because he's a very large friend in paws. As for the accomplices, first of all, I would like to remind this gentleman that there is such a co-conspirator in the faction of "Our Ukraine", which combines the duties of the national deputy with the duties of the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The other one. As for the other co-conspirators. The committee has taken its own time and at the right time, I stress, appropriate decisions regarding all the national MPs who are co-sponsors today. In particular, decisions were made and directed to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. This is true of our colleagues — Kluva, Slauti, Tolstouchova, and also Moses and Onopenka. All these submissions were sent a few months ago to the Head of the Supreme Council. And they, as the Head of the Supreme Council stated at the Conciliation Council meeting, were directed by him to the Court of Appeal. Yesterday evening, a statement was made to the committee by the national MP, Tolstouchov, to appoint him as a national deputy. It will be discussed at the next meeting of the committee, and a decision will be taken. With regard to the question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy of Zločevský Mikola Vladislavovic. It was yesterday that the committee considered the issue to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, and, in accordance with the requirements of part one of the first article of the Fifth Law of Ukraine, "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", the Committee introduces a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian People's Deputy of Crime elected from the single-mandom state-run constituency (Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (unified)) in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u38	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Manchulenka, prepare Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u39	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewecka District, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Chief, Honourable Reporter! I am pleased by the principle of the regulatory committee's position with regard to fellow deputies, and I would like to emphasize that the faction "Our Ukraine" advocates that the rules of law be the same for all, regardless of which faction belongs to one or other MP. In this regard, when are we finally going to deal with those co-sponsors who are currently on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and working in the executive branch of power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor. By the way, yesterday when the committee considered this question concerning the formation of the mandate of the national deputy of Zlocevski, it had once again considered the problem in its entirety. As you can see, it's not easy. This depends not only on the position and will of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. This should be the will of the Heads of State who issued certain orders or decrees regarding the appointment of those or other superiors. So it's definitely up to us to decide. If this is not for the President to decide, then to decide in court what should be done by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u41	Please, Matvienkov, prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u42	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Valentin Grigoryevich! How do you feel about the Committee's approach to dealing with this issue as follows. Of course, consideration should be on the basis of the application. But in order not to use this mechanism as a pressure to resolve political issues, vote on these issues by a package. If there are so far several persons who are alternates to vote on them simultaneously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u43	Thank you, Sergey Anatoliyovich, for asking, but this will be a violation of the current Supreme Council Rules. All questions relating to the formation of parliamentary powers in particular should, and personnel matters in general, be voted on separately. And so wait until he's given the last of this long list of co-sponsors, and I think we can wait to see the end of our call, that is, this call by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u44	Please, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Deputy Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u46	Anisimova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u47	Dear Valentin Grigoryevich, I have heard several names of deputies who combine several posts. But I didn't hear the name Tskitishvili Emver Omarovich. I'm sure his card is still in the box and there's a vote being made at a time when Emver Omarovich probably doesn't even know which way the doors are opening. During the past two years, he has been leading a combination of the name of Djrjinsky, who has been illegally privatized, and is not working at all in the Supreme Council. However, it was not decided upon. Please explain this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u48	Thank you, Vyacheslav Alexandrovich. I beg your pardon, indeed, I have missed this name, and not specifically, but just somewhere in my mind, although yesterday a matter was raised to the committee's meeting concerning the early termination of the authority of the People's Deputy, our colleague, Zkitishvili Enver Omarovich. This question arose as early as December last year. And my colleague Zkitishvili and I did some work, and at the meeting of the committee, he said that when it was decided by the State Property Fund on the transfer of the share of public property, the sale of the share of public property was made up of the powers of the chairman of this shareholder society, namely the Dneprov Steel Combined. On the second February, if I do not change my memory, the Holding Fund decided on the sale of the State share of property. That is to say, the question has been definitively resolved and has been asked not to take a final decision on it by the Committee. Yesterday he did not come to the meeting of the Committee by making a statement that, by substantiating his non-existence, he was allegedly in treatment. It will be considered at the next meeting of the Committee. To confirm your words, I can only say that, indeed, only at this session did the people's MP Tskitishvili of 38 meetings not register at 36 plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u49	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy. According to article 981, part 2, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Crimea Mikola Vladislavovich, selected from the multi-mandatory national constituency (the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (unified) in connection with his personal application for his parliamentary powers. Project registration number 5540. Please vote. [[10:30:20.]] For 177 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 73, "Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 58, Social Democrats - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, "Urban Ukraine" - 0, "Socialist Party - 16, "Centre" - 8, "Timoshenko Block - 12, "NDP" and "Industry Party" - 0, "Agrarian Party" - 0, "National Choice" - 0, "Centre" - 8, "Timoshenko" - 12, "NDP" and "Industry Party" - 0, "National Choice" - 0, "O" - 7. Dear colleagues, we are now exchanging thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this is a constitutional requirement. I point out to you that each of us, by taking an oath, talked about his adherence to the laws and the Constitution. Yes, please write down the reasons for the vote. Five minutes. Please, five minutes. Tomenko. Gurenko, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I think there are two explanations. The first explanation is obviously our fellow national MPs are not familiar with valid legislation, which clearly foresees the status of co-existence, because the second explanation -- well, I take it as an attempt to discredit and such a questionable degree of confidence in the Supreme Council. If today the majority will act in a way that a whole range of national MPs will automatically manage the drama, land, privatization, football and parliament, then the same situation in Parliament will be with Ukrainian nadrama, football and privatization. So I would ask my colleague, most of the time, to implement the constitutional norm and the law on the status of the People's Deputy, and to vote once again not only for Zločevsky, but for other colleagues who are working together today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u51	Please, Gurenko. Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u52	Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I want to draw the attention of our voters and those who listen to our session today to the fact that we are dealing with a cynical and purposeful violation of the Constitution, which I believe is being initiated today by the guarantor of our Constitution. Because those factions that don't vote today are factions that are directly subordinated to the President. And that's no secret to anyone today. We see this through a vote that goes around the subjects of state property when, contrary to the Constitution, the laws are handed down to today’s close persons to Leonid Danilovich objects of state ownership when not only the right of the Supreme Council but also the Constitution is ignored. I would like to propose that today's voting results be published.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u53	Please, Hiccup. Prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u54	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I think there's a political game going on, but this political game is very dangerous, and it's threatening that it gives everyone who, today, the accomplices, are going to make such claims, and they're going to be confident that these statements will not be taken into account in our own room. That is, the responsibility is transferred, not to them, not to those who seem to violate the Constitution, but to us. We are all violators of the Constitution and the relevant laws. I want to remind you that when that question came to me in 1994, 1995, and that Frost was the head of our faction at the same time the Supreme Council, he just brought me to trial. And the court granted him an invitation to release me from office in 1998. So I think we need to do something, and we need to put it to trial, so that these issues can be settled in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u55	Please, Gabrieluk. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, of course, understand what moral standards the MPs enjoy today, without voting in favour of the draft regulation. I would like to draw attention, Adam Ivanovich, to the fact that another non-compliance option has been found today, to ignore the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular the “consolidation of powers”. If, for example, Tolstoyov had made a statement to the President that he would be dismissed from office, the one he held in the Government, and he was not being considered. And so did some of our other colleagues. There's a way of writing a statement today, and now we're not going to vote. It'll probably go a long way, my friends, if we do that. Therefore, I call upon all once again to comply with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws. Otherwise, what can be asked of others? I therefore propose to vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u57	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, our faction supports the requirement that it would certainly be desirable for a single or package of decrees to vote on the release, the removal of the mandates of all co-sponsors working in the government, first of all in the government. I appeal to those who have made this proposal, let us at least carry out our constitutional duties. I propose that Adam Ivanovich, in view of the fact that this is a requirement of the Constitution, put the vote again and vote. And I'm talking to my colleagues, let's not play these toys, let's do our constitutional duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me to make a brief comment. There is a clear record of who, when, and how the authority of the national deputy is terminated. If the national deputy has made a statement, then in this case the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council and only the Supreme Council, should consider the application, no court here to do anything. In that case, the court is considering when a national MP, in violation of the Constitution and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, does not submit an application. This question is then considered by the head of the committee, and the head submits to the appropriate Court of Appeal in Kiev. In this case, you and I have a personal statement from the national deputy of Zločevski. So I have this statement. "In connection with my appointment as Head of the State Committee on Natural Resources, I am authorizing the National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security." The head of the committee informed that a meeting had taken place yesterday, where this statement by the national deputy in accordance with the Constitution was supported and introduced to the current legislation today for consideration by the Supreme Council. And so once again, I would like to point out that besides you and me, no one else in this case is going to solve this question, because that's what it says in the Constitution. So I have every reason to believe that this really applies directly to the Constitution, which relates to ours with you, and I'm sorry that this applies to events around Parliament. I'll put him to the vote again. But, please, for the reasons of the Social Democratic Party representative, please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u60	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. In view of the fact that we have considered this issue, I would like to have a request, according to our Parliament, for a vote to return to the matter. And I think that the Regulatory Committee will be able to reconsider this application, and there's nothing to prevent that question from being asked next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, calm down. I am putting to the vote the draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Zločevski. Registration number 5540. Please be supportive. [[10:40:06]] For 226 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 57, Social Democrats - 1, "Democratic Initiatives", "The People's Government" - 2, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, "Socialists - 19, Center" -16, "Timoshenko Block - 18, NDP, "Industry" - 0, "The Agrarian Party - 3, "The People's Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 11. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and respond with understanding to our decision. You and I have fulfilled a constitutional obligation. Nobody loses, nobody wins. We have done what the Constitution requires of us. In view of this, will we continue to work? Then, in view of the fact that there's a statement by the factions of the Socialists and Our Ukraine, they're asking for a recess. There's a 40-minute recess. At 11: 10 a.m. For 30 minutes, sorry, 30 minutes. It's 11:10.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u62	We'll continue the meeting. Yes, on behalf of the factions taking the break, please have Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to provide information on the reasons for the break in the form of a small statement. Dear colleagues, the Constitution establishes that the government must manage state property in a manner defined by law. However, despite repeated orders from the Supreme Council and even the President to expedite the submission to Parliament of the draft Law on the Administration of State Property, the government is deliberately delaying the submission of the bill, demonstrating that compliance with legislation is not part of its plan. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers systematically alienates state property in the process of legislation by applying shuler schemes without even concealing these facts. The impunity of the state's senior officials, the indifference to violations of Ukraine's Constitution and laws by the guarantor of their compliance - President Kuchma - has led officials to openly claim that State property is being alienated outside the framework of privatization legislation as a established practice. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers gave a limited-liability company to the Donbas 34 merchant fleet of the Azov steaming company, allowing illegal schemes to sell state-owned packages to five companies in the paper and pulp industry of the company. This sale was not made by the Property Fund but by the holding company. And the cost of selling was not included in the State Budget, but on the account of a company that actually owns people who are closer to higher leadership. Such government actions cause material damage to the state, undermine its economic base, and destroy the budget. This example shows that the unforeseeable financial financing of a private company has taken place. Moreover, the creation of a precedent for selling holdings to them on the basis of the President's decree on state-owned stock packages poses a danger of mass alienation by these state-owned companies. This is an estimate of 22 billion dollars in 1995. One of the last orders of the Cabinet of Ministers was to allow Oranta, a former State Department, to make an additional issue, which would reduce the government's package from 50 to 25 percent. The government also cynically ignored the interests of the state. In fact, the ten million citizens of Ukraine who are insured have been undermined. Indignant is the sale by the Holding Foundation of high-profit government companies, basic enterprises, such as the Crimson Coastal. If that happens, hundreds of millions of dollars will be removed from the budget. Robbed by the hands of government and other power structures, looted by society, by the state, by specific citizens. We require immediate consideration of government information about the state of administration of public property. The draft ruling on this point is registered in the order set out, and we ask that this be included today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u64	Please. Dear colleagues, therefore, we will listen to the information on which the break was taken. We're continuing our meeting. Yes, please sign in. Yeah, let's see. Please, five minutes, please, Yavorowski. Prepare the Colonies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u65	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear colleagues, I fully support what Alexander Alexander Moroz said, having some differences with him, but I fully support it, it's very fair, and I'm convinced that this is the number one problem that we need to solve. And I would like to add to that, our distinguished voters, Ukrainians, today are opening international Chewchenkov festivals, visiting from abroad, and the Writer's Association is blocked, the phones are unlocked, the money is not given by Medvedchuk to carry out this act. This abuse not only of today's Ukrainian eminent writers is harassment against Taras Shevchenk himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u66	Please, Coloniari. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u67	Colonyari, 56th constituency, city of Mariupol Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give the word of Buiko, for he stands on the rostrum all the time, poor, and will never tell what he wants. We need to listen carefully and then work on these daily bills: reform of the Armed Forces, benefits for pensioners, disabled people, and low-income families. I ask you very much to listen to my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u68	Thank you. But you didn't give him time to pass on the word. Please, Rodionov. Get Rudenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u69	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to the leader of the Petr Mikolaiovich Simonek faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u70	Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u71	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the position of our faction, I would like to stress the principle that we are in favour of withdrawing our military contingent from Iraq and for the urgent procedure for today's open-ended review. But what I'm suggesting is that pressure is being exerted on the representatives of the pro-President majority and part of the "ourists" on different sides is this pressure, which makes it impossible for them to vote consciously, to vote in a closed regime. That's the first one. The other one. Those who do not vote today in favour of withdrawing our military will understand you only if you send your sons to Iraq today. Then I'll understand that you're consciously voting for others to die there, for American interests. And if you are an honest defender of national interests today, send your sons to Iraq today and let them command the mouths and battalions there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u72	Please, Rudenko. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, when the rostrum is blocked, there is a sense that those who block the rostrum with those who want to privatize the "Cruvoristal" and other enterprises, but it is possible to privatize or silence, as we used to do in Ukraine, or light, transparently. Yeah, instead. In order to block processes that are already under way, it may be necessary to group together to ensure that the privatisation procedure takes place in a transparent manner. [[of the same "Cruvoristal", "Paulograd" and other objects]] Let us focus on this and our abilities. And this is the legal vachanal. We're constantly blocked by questions, we can't complete our consideration of issues that have been standing for months. The people are waiting for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Bulba. Prepare the Levcun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u75	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u76	Lucenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The Soccer faction strongly insists on the withdrawal of our 6th brigade from Iraq. After all, at a closed meeting yesterday, we heard the true responsible words of the head of the Security Council that there was a threat of terrorist acts in Ukraine. And the situation in Iraq is getting worse. So we insist that these problems can be solved only by bringing out the brigade. And Marchuku, who "wept" last night for what he didn't have. I suggest you send a torture brigade, a bag crew, a daughter brigade, in charge of their governors. The boys are shot, talented. It's all right!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u78	Please, Levcun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u79	Give me the Turk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u80	Turkinova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u81	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko supports the urgent consideration of 2 issues. The first is the return of our troops from Iraq. And the second question is to ban the privatization of the Crevice Metalworks complex. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, we insist that all of this be done in an open manner. It is enough to hide the majority’s position. Let all of our voters, all of our citizens, watch who protect their interests. And to save the lives of our citizens and to rob our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! At the insistent request of Colonia and the Bull, I give the word Buiko, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u83	Buiko, Donetsk Region, Communist Party of Ukraine. I stand with my comrades on our principled position with events related to the attitude of Ukraine-Iraq and the whereabouts of our occupying forces there. I must state that yesterday's meeting, which seemed to be closed, showed nothing closed, except that there was a massacre at the battalion prior to the arrival of Nikolayev and how they were going to fight incomprehensiblely. Therefore, when our Ukrainian people in Iraq are killed, we do not know for what reasons, we invite everyone to unite and resolve this problem, not to oppose the European community or the decisions of the United Nations. That is why we have stood up at this rostrum to draw attention to both the people's deputies and the entire public of Ukraine and not to leave here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! There's been an exchange. Let's, let's please, let's sort this out. You and I discussed this issue at a closed meeting of the Supreme Council yesterday, instead of for two hours, we discussed it for almost four hours, which is why the discussions are now taking place, including yesterday we put the vote to a vote, we voted five draft rulings on this issue, and we spoke about the inclusion in the agenda of the two laws directly related to the problems that have arisen, and the situations that have arisen around Iraq. None of these proposals have been supported, as you know. [[And this is what I'm informing the media representatives who were absent from the meeting yesterday because it was closed, although the results are well known and are aware of these results.]] There was no support for the proposal for a day-to-day review of two bills that could legally regulate and regulate these problems. Also, none of the five decrees, the draft decrees made by members of the various MPs, were supported. The maximum support, the maximum number of votes that we won with you yesterday, even though we made the decision, we did not make the decision more faithfully, because only 129 national deputies voted not to publish the documents of the closed session. Yet, once again, none of the rulings, and one of them the largest, peaked 160 votes. Clearly, the number of votes was not enough. So you and I can't go back today to the question that was discussed yesterday. But I, in view of finding something constructive, please now, let's sign up and talk about it. Please, I'd like to hear your suggestions, your recommendations on how we can get out of this situation, because yesterday we were looking at a question that concerns us today. Please sign in. Please, let's take 10 minutes to do this. Bondarenko, get Bronnikov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u85	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. The blockades that have recently become regular in the Supreme Council have been caused by one very serious factor affecting the work of the higher legislative body. So far, we cannot, for ourselves, pass the Opposition Act, which would allow the parliamentary minority to put questions into discussion. If there are no 226 votes, then the opposition cannot ask the question for discussion and should go to a blockade. I fully support those who stand near the rostrum today and those who have stood there once in the past because there is a need to adopt this bill. And with regard to the problems that are being addressed today: both the problem of Iraq and the problem of “Criminalism”, it is a problem of state importance. It's impossible to ignore them. And I think that today we have to accept the acceptance of the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. The situation has changed. There is a very different situation than what we were drawn by those who then urged us to go there. That's why I support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u86	Please, Bronnikov, get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u87	Bronnikov, "Regions" faction, Zaporozhye district. Dear colleagues, let's try to move from emotion to small work. There is a famous saying that the devil is sitting in the little ones. Let us entrust the Defence Committee or create a special commission, but let us see if we are ready to withdraw troops from Iraq. What a party must do at the political level at this level so that we can get these guys out of there painlessly. And maybe we'll find that the safest thing for our guys is to stay there and get the troops out of there with all the coalitions. Let's work out a little bit. It's got all the salt in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u88	Please, Kuharchuk. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u89	Chef, Communist faction. Please pass the word to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u90	Zibank's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you, Mikolo Andryovich. Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, and the situation that we discussed yesterday does not complicate the situation for us, but simplifies it. The question is discussed, and we now have every reason to go back to making a decision. The Communist faction insists that a positive decision be made regarding the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq, because we know that there is a tradition in the Middle East where a person who commits a crime or commits an immoral act reaps a stone from there. Then I wouldn't want to be stoned from there, first. And secondly, Ukraine will become a field for carrying out and carrying out terrorist actions. We insist on voting on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u92	Please, Demyohin, prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. We've moved with you into an uncivilized phase of work. Let's go back to the principles of democratic centralism. Moreover, these principles are enshrined in the statute of the Communist Party. Yesterday we discussed the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. If the information provided by the Secretary of Defense doesn't suit us, let's hear it again, Minister of Defence. But still, we're moving on to a civilized path. Today, important laws are on the agenda, and the reform of the Armed Forces, which the entire country is waiting for, the soldiers are awaiting dismissal without housing, is being dismissed without adequate money. And we sit and argue whether to withdraw troops from Iraq or not. If they are to be withdrawn, this decision must be made democratically, hearing objective information. I'm asking if we don't, let's stop the meeting and split up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u94	Please, Semenyuk, prepare for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u95	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, may I have a word with Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u96	Ice cream microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, first of all, I appeal to the distinguished MP Bronnikov of mine or of my honour: Parliament must make a political and legal decision. The organization of execution is by government. That's understandable. The other one. Let us consider: People are being chased to another’s slaughter and their homeland is being looted at home. Thieves in the house, and we keep quiet! We're sitting here like it doesn't apply to us. Most hide behind their servants. This service must be put to rest. I'm asking you to get rid of the violence, get free! You have been chosen, not for laity, but for the free expression of your position! I propose to vote yesterday's question openly, to publish it in the paper. But there is no secret but one: those who do not vote fear responsibility. That's the whole secret. And there's no such thing as a secret.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u98	Please, Belarus, get ready for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, the situation in Iraq has changed so that we have really turned from false peacemakers to invaders. According to the United Nations, we are there in a coalition of occupying armies. We're going to have to pull out our military structures. It's important that it's not too late. Our faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, opposed the deployment of these armies into Iraq. Today we have passed, as they say in aviation, the point of return. Military losses in hostilities — 26 plus five who want to leave — are very significant. Honduras led Spain, a NATO member, out of its forces. Today, more than ever, a political decision by the Ukrainian Parliament is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u100	Please, National Deputy Crnowil, prepare to go overboard.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Yesterday's hearing of this question, especially in a closed state, did not answer any of the questions about Ukraine's membership in Iraq. And so today, in my opinion, to make a fundamental decision without any answers, for example, I do not consider it appropriate and appropriate. There are two questions. The first, purely human factor is to confirm or deny how willingly our soldiers, our citizens, are there. To that end, I propose to direct the deployment of our battalion in Iraq to two people from the Supreme Council, two deputies from those who support the stay there and those who demand their withdrawal, to conduct a secret closed poll and to determine whether people are actually there voluntarily, whether they agree to stay there. The second point is whether it is appropriate for Ukraine to participate in a peacekeeping operation in Iraq. There is no political answer either. As far as we are concerned, we have not fulfilled a number of obligations that exist, but whether it is convenient or not, there is no answer. Me and our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u102	Please, dear, prepare for silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Deeply convinced that today what is happening on the rostrum is not a cause of the problem that is being put on the agenda today, but of some other interests, because that is how we can get to the point that for any reason and without reason we can go out and block the rostrum. So today, when we discuss it, I want to remind you that you discussed it yesterday. If anyone doubts my position, raise your records, see how I voted before and after yesterday's meeting, and what I said on television and in the media. Well, that doesn't mean that if I don't agree with someone, I have to stop it now, just because I don't want to. I therefore believe that the outcome of this situation should be the consideration and adoption of the law on the parliamentary order. Maybe then we'll be okay, and maybe then we won't have stents on the Bureau table. We're starting to turn, I'm sorry, into a bad circle of artistic activity: whoever wants to does what they do. And speaking of the problems that we are dealing with, let us address them as stated in the Rules: by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u104	Please, Be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u105	Pavlov Mokchan, 283 district. Dear colleagues! Ukrainian People's Party, faction of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I address, above all, the leadership of the Communist faction. Don't be mean, my friends! Why do you appeal to our Ukraine, which has given the largest number of votes? 36 votes in favour, the absolute majority opposed. And so these positions remain today: 76 against the presence of our Armed Forces. Next. Why do we not raise the question that seven million outside of Ukraine are killed by scrappers working in all possible and unimaginable areas — from Athens Stadium to Portuguese different businesses? They die every day. No, you're up to it! It has to be decided, absolutely. But then let us talk about the fact that: Don’t make smoke curtains just like you did in your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, there has been an exchange of thoughts. However, most of you did speak and give a political assessment of the problem that we are discussing, and very few specific suggestions were made on how to get out of this situation, which is the decision of the Supreme Council to review this problem, a problem that we have once again highlighted yesterday -- and none of the proposals received support. There were two specific proposals from among the speakers: this is the proposal of the national representative of Cibenka and the proposal of Chernobyl. Cibenka's proposal was that we should go back to this issue, more specifically not to consider the issue, because we have considered the question, but rather to vote on draft regulations. And there's a proposal by the National Deputy of Chernobyl that we should send representatives of the House of Representatives of the 2 People's Deputies with you. One should represent the interests of those who withdraw from Iraq. A second colleague should represent the interests of that group of national deputies who opposed the withdrawal of troops from Iraq to clarify the issue, carried out sociological research and so forth. Well, I'm probably not going to reveal a big secret when I say that yesterday, on similar questions, all those who reported to us clearly stated and most of the room in their speeches talked about it, and knows that the vast majority of our soldiers there are not under compulsion, but are, as it were, voluntarily written statements. I don't know what to study there. Perhaps other problems need to be studied by directing MPs, representatives of MPs. Let's do it this way. Now I'm going to put these two proposals on the vote and the voting method we're going to define with you in terms of this problem. Please take your seats. I will now be able to express myself on the grounds of the vote and we will vote. Yes, please sign up for the reasons for the vote. Please explain. Five minutes of vote only. I repeat, for reasons of vote, we're going to put a motion for a vote on whether or not to return and a proposal by Chernobyl to direct our delegation there. Please, Bezpali. Prepare Gorlov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u107	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to two circumstances and make a specific proposal. First. After all, the way of blocking the rostrum into this path is absolutely, let's say, playing at the hands of the President and his Administration and investing in their scheme of systemic discreditation of the Supreme Council and all the candidates in the Presidents who go from here. At the same time, it is clear that the situation around Iraq has recently created completely new circumstances, as is the case with Krivoriztal, and there are good reasons in the Supreme Council to unlock these issues, to vote on inclusion and now to consider other issues to vote on Iraq and on the “Criminal”, it will lift the tension. I think the chairman has to do so, we have to vote Iraq, “Criminal” and move on to the issues of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u108	Please, Gorlov. Get ready for Anishtuku. Gorlow. No. Please, Anitchuk. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u109	Vladimir Anishtuk, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Please give the floor to my colleague, Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u110	Mironka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u111	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mironenko. Dear colleagues! When the troops entered, we Communists who voted against the introduction of the troops said that every soldier killed in Iraq would be on the conscience of those who sent them to Iraq. Several of the guys are already dead. If a Ukrainian citizen wants to fight there, let him go to the mercenaries, the State must not be responsible for those people who want to fight in Iraq. In fact, the situation of terrorist acts in Ukraine is approaching, and terrorist acts like those in Spain with a large number of deaths in Ukraine can be repeated. We will wait for these terrorist acts to be carried out. We demand that all deputies vote, and we insist that everyone vote. and conscience, and reason, and patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u112	Bubbles. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u113	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The only secret they used yesterday to keep the Supreme Council meeting closed was the results of the vote. Most did not want the people to know who was behind this adventure. Now it doesn't even work -- we went to Iraq voluntarily or not. Of course, the military drove to earn money. But the higher cynicism is that this money can be earned by the great blood of the Ukrainian people. Because of the threat of terrorist acts, we heard from the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Defence, yesterday, and much, to the Ukrainian people. So we insist that this is an open-ended issue. I mean, we have to put to the vote the questions that were put to the vote yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u114	National deputy of Belarus. After him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u115	May I give the floor to the national MP Boris Oliynik?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u116	Please, Boris Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u117	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. I'd like us to lower our intensities and say that. We need to explain to both our government officials and our military, and to ourselves that the war in Iraq is particularly dangerous. It's a conflict of civilizations. We enter a civilization where the living sometimes do not return. Therefore, we should not be on the side of those who resolve the conflict of civilizations that Samuel Hankington warned against. We scolded him, and that's how it is. So let's vote calmly, because we have to get out of there anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u118	People's MP Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I think we will all agree here that we must act within the framework of the United Nations, its approaches and its decisions. Well, as for what's going on today, I'd like us to work somehow in the system. And I would like to remind everyone, including those on the rostrum, today we are looking at two bills on social guarantees and social protection for peacekeepers. So let's do this too, not just prove that one of us is more insistent or more loving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, as you and I have agreed, at the request of representatives of a number of MP factions, I will put to the vote the issue of returning to the draft orders for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. Who's in favour of going back to the draft regulations, please vote. [[11:44:07]] For 158. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" -51; "Regions of Ukraine" - 1; Communists -57; Social-Democratic Party - 0; "Democratic Initiatives" - 2; "Democratic Initiatives" - 2; "True Ukraine" -0; "Socialist Party - 20; "Centre" - 2; "Clock Timoshenko - 19; People's Democratic Party and Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0; Agrarian Party - 0; "National Choice" - 0; non-fractional - 6. Thus, 158 votes do not give us the opportunity to return to this question. Please write down the reasons for the vote. Please explain, five minutes. Teryohin, Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u122	Tomenka microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I propose this way out of the situation. I propose now to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council and to think in this recess, at this session, about the mechanism for solving this problem. As you can see, there is already a willingness to make this decision, such as the pace of the decision. So if, let's say, we get some kind of compromise solution that predicts the graduality of the output. Second position. I think it's the right idea for maybe a group of deputies to be there to take away some questions. For example, Boris Pavlovich Andressyuk and I agreed as representatives of two different positions to be there and to inform you. In short, I suggest we take a break now and find a way out of the situation at the Conciliation Council level.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u124	Please, Verni Dubov. After him, Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u125	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The agenda for today is 12.30. There are several draft court rulings. It is to this day that those judges who have been invited here have been invited, and which of our faults, our indecisiveness, has not resolved their questions. If we have at least one drop of respect for the judicial branch of power, I'm asking you very much not to tear up these questions any more today, and vote on the judicial issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u126	Please, Gmira. Get Rudenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u127	Thank you. There is talk of a conflict between MPs who want to withdraw troops from Iraq and MPs who do not wish to withdraw them. I think that there is another conflict: it is a conflict between the Ukrainian people, who are categorically opposed to the presence of our people in Iraq, and the criminal power that has been sold to the overseas masters. We were just talking about closing yesterday. That we have some secrets, we only have one secret that we don't have any secrets in the military anymore. It's been sold out to the Pacific masters for a long time. It is therefore necessary to discuss this issue in public and in secret, because many of our fellow MPs are now in captivity, the prisoner of this criminal power. And they do not vote for that reason alone. Let's vote in secret.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u128	Rudenko, please. Get ready fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, many who watch or listen to the meetings of the Supreme Council have the impression that there is no other form of work for the members of the Supreme Council except for the blockage. I'd like us to have a lower-level, lower-level, lower-level, lower-level, regional-level, conflict-solving experience at factions, committee meetings. We use this rostrum only to match the electoral front. So I'm asking you to go back to your normal work model and I think you need the Chief to continue the session and ask the questions that are recorded in the agenda. And we've already seen examples of microphones being ripped out, breaking the "Race" system. Let the other factions show it, which have not yet done so, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u130	Do not encourage everyone to do so. Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u131	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the part that basically doesn't want to address these two issues. I'm talking about Iraq, and I'm talking about Chrysalis. You can't just go out of the interest and interests of one person who isn't, even if it's the President. We should be guided by the very constitutional standards that exist today. And I just want to say that with regard to Iraq, this is exactly for the President -- this is the decision that we've proposed -- to translate all responsibility into the United Nations. You're also going to help the President get out of this situation by himself. And what's going to happen to the Crevices is I'm going to say to you: the next is going to be a problem. What's with the budget. And if Creebrisstal doesn't look at it, if there's no government report, if there's no government report, if there's anything that's going to share in this budget. You're going to put yourself in such a position that the budget is going to go down all the time. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u132	Yes, dear colleagues, shall we work? We need to review the second reading, the registration number. . Registration number of the law, draft law on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners, registration number 2054. A report from Morozov Alexander Valeriyovich. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. Faction leaders and MPs are requested to attend the Conciliation Board meeting on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u133	I'm talking to my colleagues: you can sit down, we've made a wise decision until you have to block it. I think I'll call you when it's necessary. Have a seat, please. Please sit down. Well, what's the Turk in charge of you? Please have a seat. As long as I keep the Conciliation Council informed, you'll be on your way. If she doesn't satisfy you, she'll be fine. Please, I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the session room, because we're going to be hearing from you right now about the wise decision of the Conciliation Board. And on the basis of that, and on the basis of that decision, make further decisions. [[Yes, as always, wise]] Dear colleagues, let me brief you on the situation. I have to note the constructiveness of the proposals and, frankly, the efforts of members of the Conciliation Council, i.e. factions and MPs, to find a way out of this situation where you and I are in. You can also understand one part: those who insist on addressing the very issues that are quite important in society today -- and you can understand the arguments of those who deny that we have considered these issues, we have not received support -- let's move on. I have to say that in the course of a lively discussion, interested in the discussion, we've come close to finding compromises, and I don't rule out that we can find such a compromise today. So we haven't found yet, but we agreed that those proposals that have been made and there have been various generalization proposals here, I can say that there is a proposal to go on behalf of the Supreme Council to the President with a recommendation, asking to consider the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. There was a suggestion that perhaps if the Supreme Council did not address everything, it would give the leaders of factions and groups a proper commission to contact the letter, but that the letter should be signed by all the leaders of factions and groups. Because -- again, I stress, my fellow Members, we've talked about this more than once -- the Supreme Council can't solve this issue, we can only make recommendations about this problem. There was such an offer. There was also an offer to consider the issue of listening to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the administration of the government's share of property in the near future. [[And that's about next plenary week, which will start on June 1st.]] And a number of other suggestions. I emphasize once again, there's a search, there's an attempt to find such a compromise, and I don't rule out that we can find it, because that's how we agreed. Based on the situation that we've had three calls for judges of different levels, taking into account that they've all gone through appropriate procedures on the profile committee and so on, and so forth; considering and knowing what situation we have in this system in general, we agreed that we will now have to agree with you to consider the matter that we have planned for the 12th hour of 30 minutes. [[It's about the release and appointment of judges.]] Then we announce the break again, we gather faction leaders and groups to make the final decision, if we can find it, and I have the hope that we'll find it, about the situation around which we have battalions today. So if you don't mind, dear colleagues, I'm asking you now, we're going to listen to the committee of profile and we're going to consider these decisions. From the procedure? Well, please sign up for three minutes out of the procedure. Vasil Vasilovich, for the time being, sit down. Please sign in. Please explain, we'll take five minutes. Quiet. Get ready, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u134	Our Ukraine faction, Ukrainian People's Party, Paul Mokchan. Dear Adam Ivanovich! No doubt, making decisions is necessary, and the sooner the better. This is definitely where we all stand for this position. And since there is a new edition, a proposal from two deputies, I mean Tomenka, you could consider today and thus avoid further conflict. And I would like to take this opportunity to say what is happening today in the Society of Writers, which is blocked and destroyed. A parallel illegal structure has been created that destroys all the structures of the Writer Society from publishing to editing, to accounts of everything else. I would like to tell Taras Shevchenk the day before the transfer of the powder what will take place on Saturday, that it is a violation of all Ukrainian words, writing and decency, and honesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u135	Please, Mironenko, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u136	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u137	Simonenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u138	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Distinguished judges! I would like to express what we are listening to and to tell you, as candidates, as a wish to be heard by our people. People are not satisfied with the judicial system today in Ukraine. That is what gives them reason to say again and again: corruption, bribery are flourishing, it is not possible to resolve honestly under the law any problems without what constitutes the interests of a particular clan. We have a unique case in the faction where a communist wins the election three times in the city of Nikolayev, three times the same judge cancels the election and tries to comply with the order for three years. Today, we do not have personal, submitted comments to the candidates. But let's warn the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u139	Thank you. You said it right, Peter Mikolaiovich, there's no one here today. Please, Kaletnik. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u140	Thank you for your word, Adam Ivanovich. Kaletnik, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Vinnitsk district. [[united]] I would like to ask all of my colleagues that we today, given that we have a number of problems that we are solving here in every way possible and perhaps not entirely right, by methods. And considering the second time our honorable judges are coming. I support Peter Simonek, who is sitting here today with people who have nothing to do with corruption or some sort of order. These are the people who came to the Supreme Council for the first time. And let's give them a good trip to life, vote, and let them get their status, and work for the good of the Ukrainian people. law and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u141	Demyochin. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We have successfully missed the first half of our day. The main issues on the social issues of our society are on the agenda. These are military personnel, and these are the problems of the shipbuilding industry. Today, the issue of judges is on the agenda. But I would suggest that factions speak very briefly within 10 seconds, whether the faction will vote at all. Because right now we can't vote for the judges. Not because we don't trust them, but because the faction won't vote, separate factions. If so, let us close the meeting today, calm down and return to the appointment of judges a little later. Adam Ivanovich, I strongly urge the factions to brief their position, in principle, whether they intend to vote or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u143	Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u144	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u145	Mikoli Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u146	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Of course, the judges ’ questions need to be considered, but today we must certainly vote on Iraq, a compromise, whatever. I met Yuri Koydan's mother, a nun who also died in Iraq. She does not find an explanation for herself, and all the neighbors do not find an explanation for the decision made by the disgraceful Supreme Council. We need to make up for a mistake. Not enough, we should apologize to the Iraqi people for our boys being there and endangering the lives of their mothers and children. Just as we are endangering Ukrainian citizens now, terrorist acts in Ukraine can take place every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u147	So we exchanged thoughts. A draft Decision on the discharge of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Rosenka, registration number 5458, is under consideration. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich, to the rostrum. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. A great thank - you will help us to make a wise decision. Because really, a lot of judges just brush off because of their own guilt. Some have not worked since one month, and some have worked under different circumstances for a year and a half. Therefore, you have a number of draft regulations to consider. First of all, I'm going to announce decision 5437 on the election of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u149	I'm sorry. Come on, you listen to me. Order 5458 on the release of Rosenc. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, there's no problem. According to Rosenk, he has a retirement age, he has the head of the Constitutional Court. We just need to be supportive. We've considered this project. It's not about getting elected, it's about getting fired. The committee supports, we just don't have a way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, this is in accordance with the Constitution. It's all right here. There's a question. Sign up. There is an opportunity to ask the reporter a question. We follow the Rules. The question of judges and judges is further considered. Let us be clear about our order. Please, five minutes. Tomich, behind him, Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to the national deputy Hennadia Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u153	Please, it's Widow's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u154	A member of the Constitutional Court, Vitali Ivanovich Rosenka, I would like to say a few words on this point. First. We have imperfect legislation to limit the age of government officials. Members of the Constitutional Court refer to civil servants. We need to evaluate people, not by age, but by skill, and that is what we need to take into account. The other one. I would like to say a good word about Vitali Ivanovich Rosenk. We started working together. He was a deputy minister of internal affairs, and he started working back in 1992, I was an ambassador to Ukraine in Poland, and he was a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Well, you know, there was a lot of banditry back then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u155	Well, that's not a question. Please, Buiko, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u156	Buiko, Communist faction, Donetsk region. Vasili Vasilevich, we are releasing the Constitutional Court judge today, and the Committee supports this because it is in accordance with the law. But now the Supreme Council is being picked up by citizens of the Donetsk region to a greater extent than other areas not satisfied with the decisions of the courts of Ukraine. What does the Constitutional Court have to do with the judicial system we have in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u157	Well, we're now having a court-martial with the Supreme Court, Minust and interested MPs, you know, judicial reform, and there's about 15 different bills. Yesterday the committee decided to set up a working group, I was elected head, and we are working on improving our legislation and the judicial system. As for the people at the crossroads, I met them at Adam Ivanovich’s commission. There is a letter from the head of the Supreme Court, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, to the President, to return to those urgent problems: there are mining problems, there and the prosecutions, there. I signed a parliamentary request in the name of the Attorney General on this matter. I am grateful for the direction of the Supreme Court, which received 20 persons and from five o’clock in the evening until 21 p.m. on specific matters. There is a whole series of problems that involve various interests. There is Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich, who headed the commission on behalf of the Supreme Council, that is, we work, but people want these problems to be solved today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u158	Please, Baranowski. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u159	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear fellow MPs, we should be consistent with you. It was a colleague today who was appointed after the removal of the MP's mandate, and we were not always with you, we were not immediately so consistent, and then we voted. But let's be consistent here. Viktor Ivanovich voted for the third term of the presidency of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. Well, where are we going to get another Constitutional Court judge who can't count whether it's a second term or a third? Therefore, such judges are needed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u160	Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u161	Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u162	Turkinova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! I spoke this morning, and I repeat that yesterday the court of Shevchenkov had made an unprecedented decision when I admitted that being in the resuscitation of Antonina Bolura was simply a baseless trial pass, and I decided on her arrest, which was carried out in OMON's resuscitation. And the man in the handcuffs was carried on a stretcher. Dear colleagues, today, after decisions such as the Pechersky takes, the Shevchenkovsky, who have been taken on the torture events that were taken on the Nicholas elections, we can say that the judiciary is being turned into a disgraceful addition to the administrative and penal system. Our faction refuses to vote for any decision related to the system that dishonors Ukraine is a disgrace to the title of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u164	Yes, please. No, that's it. Dear colleagues, therefore, asked questions, exchanged questions. The situation, as you can see, is that the judge has reached the age limit that allows him to be in office for 65 years. Here were the correct advice of Gennady Josephovich, who really needed the experience of such judges. But unfortunately, on April 8, we took them out because it was possible to extend the term. We have not accepted changes to the Constitution, so we need to be guided by what we have. I'm putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on discharge from the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Rosenka Vitali Ivanovich, in connection with the achievement of the age of 65. Bill number 5458. Please vote. [[13:08:20]] For 345. Decision taken. There's a draft of the Order on the Election of Judges, 5437. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the committee recommends that judges be selected on an uninterrupted basis: to the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region of Starinz Yuri Volodymyrovich; The Zacarpathian Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u166	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, the procedure is traditional, and so on, by the way, by the way, and by the law. Because you and I have even passed a special law on this matter. The committee head will inform. If any of you have objections, please raise your voice and help yourself a little. We will then consider these candidates separately. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u167	The Zakarpatsky District Court of Appeal is Bondar Oksana Vasilovna. The local Kirivian District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Burdy’s Barno Alimovna And the local Zedanów City Court of the Donetsk Region - Buzanov Pavel Mikolaiovich. We've been checking out these candidates. There were certain claims against them. All questions are taken to the MPs. The committee therefore recommends that the judges be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u168	I don't see any objection. Is there a denial? There's no objection, because I repeat. Yes. Please, once again, Your Honor, pay attention. I'm asking you, when you call a judge's name, you raise your hand as soon as you hear that name. Please object to Assadchev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I have a denial of procedure. I think that in Ukraine, the only parliament in the world where an MP is deprived of the right to ask a specific question is essentially. There's a question -- they're talking about anything, but it's essentially impossible to ask. So I just want to use the question of Vasil Vasilovich. Vasil Vasilovich, after we voted for Judge Rosenk, please tell us what is the current number of the Constitutional Court. And whether he has the right, according to the Constitution, to be a constitutional body, because there must be 18 judges in the Constitution. I understand that there is no such composition in the Constitutional Court today. Thank you. And I apologize for that. I just had no choice but to ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u170	There's one vacancy and now there's going to be a second vacancy, as far as I know. It's the creation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so it's up to us who we're delegating to the permanent court of Ukraine today. The sooner we do this, the easier it'll be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u171	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. That's the question we've solved. Please, Ratchet.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u172	Vasil Vasilovich, I have order 5437-2. There.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u173	I'm sorry, we're up to this. I repeat, Your Honor, pay attention. I understand we're a little south. Vasil Vasilovich, don't! 5457 is now under review. The names of the judges were called. There were no objections to them, so I'm asking questions about the election of judges, according to the committee's chairman, draft decision 5437. Please vote. [[13:12:12]] For 362 Decision taken. Now, we're going to override Decree 5437-1. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u174	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part 1, of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, you are asked to consider the draft Supreme Council ruling and it is recommended that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The impugned appeals court of Juchymenko Alexandre Vasilovich; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Andreichev Galina Mikhailnov; to the Kharkiv Economic Court of Appeal Bondarenko Volodymyr Pavlovich, Potter Tetjan Vasilovna, Fomin Vera Alexiyevna, and Shevel Olga Viktorovna. To the local court of the Kharkiv district of Sweden, Eduardo Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u175	Thank you. I'm addressing future judges, hopefully, and those who are, clearly that you're in our session hall for the first time, but when it's called your last name, I'm asking you to come up. I didn't see any objections to the candidates. You don't? Then I put to the vote a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number of draft regulation 5437-1]] Please vote. [[13:13:47]] For 352 Decision taken. A draft Decree on the selection of judges is under consideration. Registration number 5437-2. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u176	The committee considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, as well as the appointment of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on an indefinite basis for election to the courts of various regions, and recommended that these judges be elected to high office. A draft decision is being introduced on an uninterrupted basis: To the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Newmerzicki Tetjan Ivanovna, Romanov Aleksija Valentinović;
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u177	Stop, please. Baranovsky. It's a non-merciful remark, isn't it? Okay, then we'll remove it, then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u178	To the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Lisz Vasil Vasilovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u179	Please, Ratchet. Let's delete it. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u180	To the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Docenko Love Mikhailnovna, Ignatik Oleg Volodymyrovich; to the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Panchenk Vladimir Anatoliyevich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Nova Sergio Alexandrovich; the local Lenin district court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Ponomarenko Allu Viktorovna; the local Chichélic District Court of the Winnick district of the Harnik Maria Stepanovna; the local Zamostian District Court of Vinnice Chuprin Vladimir Alexiyovich; The Lenin district court of Vinnice, Michelin Svetlana Vasilovna; The New York City Court of Wallin County, Daniluk Valentina Anatoliyevna; Dokuchayiv City Court of the Danube Coast of Sadovska Mikol Kostinović; . The city court of the Donetsk district of Yasin, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Kalininsky District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Sukmanov Nadija Valentinovna The mining district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Kishkin Irina Viktorovna The Yellow District Court of Mariupol Donetsk district of Boguslav, Irina Anatoliyevna Bilionov District Court of Donetsk Siberia, Viktor Petrovich The proletarian district court of Donetsk Semired Igor Vasilovich. Hustice District Court of the Zakarpat district of Danjuk Vasil Vasilovic. Ivano-Frankiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Maleev Andrija Yuriovich. The local Supernatural District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Vintonak Miroslav Bogdanovna, the Man of John Ivanovich. Alchev City Court of Lugansk district Vasilnik Vladimir Vladimirovich, Karpenka Sergija Fedorovic. Lutugina District Court of Lugansk, Hayduk Valencia Grigorovna Galician District Court of Lvova Shumsk Nadia Lvivna Sniguryov District Court of the Mikolai district of Yuhimenko Zha Anatoliyevna And a court-martial, the local court of the Donetsk garrison of Budluc Mikola Saffronovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, therefore, with the exception of Newmerzicki and Lesik, all the other candidates and from the draft Order on the Election of Judges, Bill 5437-2 I put to the vote. [[13:17:39]] For 347 Decision taken. Please, Baranowski's microphone and ask Non-Mercy Tetian Ivanovna to come to the microphone. Baranowski's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u182	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Last year, at the end of the year, there was an article in "Silly News" called "Silly Justice." There was a discussion that the Colonel and Lieutenant Colonel of the Tax Police were proven in a court-martialed bribe, but the court then ruled that it was not a bribe, because they saw these funds spent on commanders during their activities. I know that the head of the Court of Appeal will be elected by day in the Gitomir region. That's why I wanted to wish both Aunt Ivanovna and Alexia Valentine's Day, the rest of the world, that in the election of the head of the Court of Appeal of Zitomirsk, that we take into account the characteristics of your profession and choose an honest and orderly man. And I want you to wish your colleagues success.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u183	Thank you. Thus, respectable colleagues, there are no remarks to the judges. Wish and only wish, because to influence an independent branch of the judiciary, we have no right with you. So I ask you to support the election of the judge on an untimely basis, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Neumerznick Tetjan Ivanovna. Vote. [[13:19:32]] For 354 Decision taken. There were observations about the candidate for the judge of the Zacarpathian Court of Appeal of Olesk Vasil Vasilovich. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, there's a microphone on the second floor. And Ratushnjak's microphone, please. Make your wishes known.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u184	I don't have a wish. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about someone who is involved in criminal activity. This is about a person who allows himself to be shot in court, in an unsettled state of court, in debt of under 25 percent in the currency of the moon, and in taking property from the relatives of the Mochanik victim that I brought to the committee. The point is that a man can throw a flashlight out of his trunk of a car that broke into two pieces and injured another person. This is a person who has no right to be a judge, both moral and legal. The fact that Krivenko provided information that was being tested did not include members of the legal committee. As a member of the committee, I was not involved in the examination. The check is formal. In this characteristic, according to the signature of Lisk and Striżak, the heads of the Court of Appeal, are falsified.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u185	Please, Vasil Vasilovich Lisco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u186	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. What Deputy Ratushnyak said was checked by the Council of Judges of Ukraine and found no confirmation, and this is what the Council of Judges of Ukraine concluded, which was given to the Committee on Legal Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u187	Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, we had a long discussion yesterday about Lisz Vasil Vasilovich. I'll say it hasn't worked for a year and a half. It was because the committee four or five times we challenged him to ourselves that we went through constant tests again. What have we got? We actually found that he was borrowing money from a foreigner, and then that person didn't return. He appealed to the court to collect this sum. Consider for yourself how morally or immoral this is. Most of the time, the committee came to the conclusion that, after all, he was not a judge, he was borrowing money as just a Ukrainian citizen. But that's for your own good. Listen, with regard to other matters, then, indeed, the Council of Judges, we asked the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Volkova, who took the stand, a member of the Council of Judges, to check those circumstances on the spot. That's why I'm reporting to the committee today. This is not my personal position. The position of the committee to support him in this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u189	Thank you. I see that there is a need to discuss the matter. Please write down who wants to participate in the discussion and we will vote. Please explain. Please, five minutes. Alexiyuk, "Our Ukraine." Prepare the Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u190	Give the Manchulenka a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u191	Please, Manchulenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u192	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, dear colleagues! We've heard two completely opposite thoughts about the same event of the same candidate. As I see it, my colleague, Ratushnyak, has made very serious accusations against the candidate, which is proposed for approval by the judge on an uninterrupted basis. And it seems to me that these accusations can't be left out of the attention of the deputies who are in the session room, because I think a colleague is reporting because he publishes such data. Hence, he has serious reasons for doing so. And just to move away from such things we have no moral right. I think we should probably go back to one more serious test and put a dot on it, right? And just to be clear, that would be wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u193	Please, Polit, get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u194	Andrew Politt, faction of the Company. Please give the floor to Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u195	Alexandrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u196	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Very often, unfortunately, in this room, we, the deputies, consider ourselves judges in the final instance. If the MP claims such serious claims as we have heard today, it would be good for the MP to back it up with concrete facts, testimony, documents, referrals and so on. Vassili Vasiljevic, but I have a question for you: you said that the committee supports the approval of this candidature as a judge. How many votes were in favour and against or unanimous?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u197	A two-headed difference in support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u198	Yes, please, Baranowski. Get ready for Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u199	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. May I have a word with your colleague Marcus?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u200	Marcus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, the question with Judge Lisco has been pending for over a year and a half. The charges brought against him by Deputy Ratushnjak have been repeatedly reviewed, including by the Higher Council of Justice, by both the Prosecutor’s Office and other authorities. And all these arguments, which have been put forward by Judge Lisco for over a year and a half, have not confirmed that it was confirmed yesterday that it was confirmed during the vote that Lysca was running for Judgeship. So, dear colleagues, I don't think there's any reason to torture a person for more than a year and a half, it's not clear why it's a heart attack.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u202	Please, Uncle, get ready for Onichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u203	Please pass the word to Ratushniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u204	Ratushniak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u205	The first observation, Vasil Vasilovich, was that the three of you were with some kind of voice, and the seven of us were against the living deputies on the committee. Next, my material is contained in it, and it's also a criminal case for extortion. Money was demanded in the prosecutor’s office. The area. He was taken out in the trunk, tied to the battery for a week. Next. So this case was closed in the area next door. Next, I communicated, and the falsified data came from the deputy head of the Court of Appeal of Droboka, and I spoke to the judges of the Court of Appeal of Pavluchenko. Volkov never met anyone. Drinking a cognac with the head of the Court of Appeal was a test by the Supreme Court of the matter. Two years of pushing. The materials are all for this, the sacrifices are, the living people! We haven't met anyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u206	Please, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u207	Mikola Onichuk, faction of the People's Democratic Party and industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask all the national deputies to listen to the thought of a legal committee that has really studied this issue for a year and a half. From the voice, from the accusations of such, you know, thrown into the hall, it's hard to make the right decision. That's the question. The judge lent money to the man. To whom do we benefit today: the one who does not give money because there is a judicial decision, a judicial decision that has recognized the presence of this party; or the one who, through a court of law, demanded that they be returned? It seems to me that we have no moral right to intervene in private life, including judges. As far as the charges are concerned, the committee is careful, including the Council of Judges of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u208	Please, on the basis of Karmazin's vote. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u209	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin. I would like to say that over a year and a half, we have considered this issue several times at a committee meeting. I am saddened that I am addressing Vasil Timothy Malarenko, whom I highly respect, who was very sad that he was founded, who was very serious about the application. The point is that this is not the case at all. On the committee, in fact, only three men with the votes cast were against seven. Thus, all present at the committee meeting were strongly opposed. Why? We couldn't agree that the judge was detaining the district attorney at the time, by the time the Ilchuk person was planted, handcuffed, and then in that state he wrote a receipt. And then on this receipt, the four thousand debt is going to be $29,000 more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u210	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, from the committee, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, no matter how you decide this man's fate, I'd like to say this. You know, we talk a lot, and you talk to me, too, to my colleagues. Regardless of the political colour, I've occupied and taken over the law and given a legal grade as a lawyer. Here we are today and on the committee of Sergei Mikolaiovich called Vasil Vasilovich "the criminal." [[I respect him.]] I say to him: "In our Ukraine, more than one was called a criminal. How did this all end?" As long as there is no verdict, no conviction, you can't do that. Otherwise we will never move anything in this state. Today the question is that a criminal case has been committed, and it is closed. And there is no criminal case today, so let us be objective about these things. The right to be identified is a session of the Supreme Council. I reported the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft decision to elect an untimely judge of the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Lesko Vasil Vasil Vassilovič. Please vote. [[13:31:21]] For 238. Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, we're listening to the draft decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5437-3]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u213	Thank you. The committee recommends that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: The Lviv Economic Court of Appeal, Mirotenko Aleksandra Leontijovich; Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal Shepítko Irina Ivanovna, Shutenko Inna Anatoliyevna; The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Irina Constantine; the Economic Court of the Winnick district of Kožuhar Maria Sergiyevna; the Economic Court of Zaporozhye district of Kutishtevo Nonna Stepanovna and Popov Irina Anatoliyevna; Master's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u214	Please stop. Tomenko. By what note? Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u215	Popova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u216	Popov. Come on in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u217	The Lord's Court of the Plains District of Groznov Vasil Volodymyrovich; the Commercial Court of the Suman district of Kostenko Larissa Andriyevna, Lechovid Boris Ivanovich and Merepolski Sergey Alexiyovich; The local court of the Ternopil district of Mikhail Evstahievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u218	So, dear colleagues, from this list we have a reference to Popov's Irina Anatoliyevna. With the exception of Popova Irina Anatoliyevna, I put to the vote the draft Ordinance on the selection of judges on an untimely basis. [[Registration number 5437-3]] Please vote. [[13:33:25]] For 347 Decision taken. Please, Irina Anatolyevna Popova, go to the microphone. Turn on Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u219	Dear colleagues! Dear Vassil Vasilovich! I'd rather not ask, an offer. At the time of the adoption of citizens in Zaporozhye, I received a warning regarding a number of court decisions given to the judge. I don't personally have any warnings, because I've never been in a relationship with this judge, part of the material just technically I've changed yesterday, and the committee's been looking at it, part of the material I still have to hand over. That's why my proposal, because the weight of this decision is big enough, and to make a decision either way, to postpone to the next meeting, I'll pass on the rest of the material, and at the next session, we'll make the final decision with the recommendation of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u220	Please, I'd like to ask, let's just say, specific questions so the judge can answer. What comments? Tomenko microphone, please. What are we talking about so the judge can explain? Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u221	.. I have no personal comments. As a national MP, I had to pass on the comments we received. The point is that a very large number of court decisions were then challenged and brought to trial. I say again that my suggestion is not to make a unwise decision, to make a wise decision, and to make a wise decision at the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u222	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, what was on the committee yesterday?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, yes, indeed, Mikola Volodymyrovich came to us yesterday with this kind of help. And the point was that it could not be confirmed because there were claims and disciplinary charges against her. We went through the committee in detail yesterday, and it turns out, and there's the first vice president of the Supreme Court of Commerce, Michael Ilchi Titov, and the other heads of the department who said there was no draw to it. Then another claim was made that it was, as a matter of low quality, transferred from one court to another court. So once he's looking into bankruptcy cases, the second time he's looking into some kind of grief-stricken case. But this is normal practice both in the Supreme Court of Ukraine and in other courts where there are no judges when there is someone on vacation, but that does not mean that there is a low level of qualification. If there are specific claims to Popova, let us express them. Moreover, I contacted some colleagues and in the Zaporozhye region, judges too, well, it was already my test that positively characterized it. So if you have any questions, please ask them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, be careful. I am putting to the vote the draft decision to elect an untimely judge of the local court of the Zaporozhye district of Popov, Irina Anatoliyovna. Please vote. [[13:37:08]] For 317 Decision taken. Let us move on to the draft rulings on the release of judges. Registration number 5324. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, your consideration is based on a draft decision on discharge: Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Denisenko Volodymyr Vasilovic, in relation to the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Korčnogo Ivan Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Garski Vjacheslav Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Military Court of Appeal of the Navy Forces of St. Vasil Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Tokmatsky District Court of Zaporozhye District of Suslov Mikola Sergiyovich in connection with the filing of the resignation application; Judge Kamyanobrid, District Court of Luhanské Filippenco Zinaid Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Ilchisov City Court of Odessa, Shepti Vasil Grigorovitch, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Southern City Court of Odessa district of Mazur Vladimir Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Suvorov District Court of Odessa, Zastavu Juriya Grigorovitch, in connection with the application for resignation. We checked the materials that came from the High Council of Justice and the relevant authorities, and there are no objections. Everyone has a desire not to work anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I didn't see any remarks. Wait, please. I repeat, in accordance with the Law on Assignment and Liberation, when the head informs, if there is a specific point to the individual, then please. I ask you, I remind you again, when it's called the last name, not when it's finished. School, to whom do you note?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u227	Vasil Vasilovich, regarding Korčivo. Is it not Korchish, who judged the murderer of Alexandrov, the so - called Verduk? If so, explain what happened to him, why did he resign, and where did he come from? As a result of his youth, he does not, in principle, according to his passports for retirement yet to be collected. If it is pressure, who, why, and how? Please explain this situation to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u228	Well, Andriy Vasilovich, I didn't hear any signals from Korchito, from anyone else on the High Council of Justice that he was under pressure. I don't know if it's him or not him. I think maybe someone from the Supreme Court or the High Council of Justice will. He made his own application and asked to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u229	Yeah, no more remarks? Yes, then I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council order on the dismissal of judges. Registration number Order 5324. Please vote. [[13:40:49]] For 347 Decision taken. A draft Supreme Council regulation on the dismissal of a judge is under consideration. Registration number 5324-1. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, the final draft of the decree. Oily Grigory Mikitovich. It is proposed that he be released from office of judge at the District Court of Odessa in connection with the taking of legal power over his indictment. We were approached by a decision of the High Council of Justice. There was a review of the candidature. And there's an offer to release. You realize that, of course, he is unable to perform his duties as judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-20-m0.u231	No questions asked. Then I put to the vote the draft Order on the release of a judge from the office of Judge of the District Court of Odessa in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment against Oliynik Grigory Mikitovic. Registration number Order 5324-1. Please vote. [[13:42:08]] For 343 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me, on your behalf, to extend a warm welcome to the judges to whom we have entrusted the exercise of justice. To wish that they would make it legally, legally, and legally, so that we would not make similar decisions with regard to them as we have just made the final decision. Good luck! I'm sorry about the third one. But we carried out our mission. Dear colleagues, as you and I have agreed, I'm calling a break until 4:00. At 3 p.m., 30 minutes, please with the fresh thoughts of the faction leaders and groups to gather on the third floor to make a compromise decision.
