ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:00]] Registered -374 There were 374 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, you have a list of issues to consider today. Please sign up for three minutes of procedural questions. On the board, describe the names of the national deputies that have been registered. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u2	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, every morning we come to work and we do not know what the order of the day will be. I wanted us to put order in the Supreme Council once and for all. The mess that has now taken place after the issues have been put into the agenda, it all helps the poor thing that is now being created in the state. I'm not exaggerating. So questions were raised and very serious about making changes to the State Budget Act. These questions are not raised on such a serious day. Why aren't they moving? Why do we ask secondary questions? I'd like to ask you to consider this question, the project that was being implemented by the faction of "Our Ukraine" about the return of our soldiers from Iraq. Let's solve this question once and for all, let's vote only all the options, not the ones that we were told about yesterday by some speakers from.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u3	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, the question of the return of the Ukrainian contingent from Iraq was asked yesterday by the people’s deputies to consider the withdrawal of the Ukrainian contingent from Iraq. The Supreme Council of 133 votes did not support this issue. If the Supreme Council makes a decision, we will begin each morning to consider the matter. Please, Oily. Don't scream, please don't scream. Oily Boris Illich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u5	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u6	Thank you. Simonenko, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is it not clear to me that we are the branch of the American Congress or the Parliament of Ukraine? As soon as the disks, so to speak, are in and out, as soon as the prices and prices and the bread prices are in, you are out and there is not today. And yesterday, this project was 3373. Don't I get it? It's different. I urge and ask, on behalf of the faction, to put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of today's issue of the return of our boys from Iraq. And this is a fundamental question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And the third. I insist that we, the Supreme Council, respond to the government’s discrimination by dividing 800 million dollars between members of the national MPs and the signs that 800 million dollars of the State Budget have been divided by the government among the national deputies. And I'm asking you to put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, let me explain again. I'm not throwing anything out of the document. Let us be when we agree on a schedule of meetings, work as other parliaments do, including in the United States Congress, before the issue is concluded. Dear colleagues, and we only work when we have a question that is of interest to one another, whether for political reasons or for others, for economic reasons. I'm not throwing anything away. By the way, the first deputy to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for the planning of the work. And I'm asking you not to drop these charges anymore. And again. Calm down. We'll vote when we have to. Melniczuk Mikhailo, PSU faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u8	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we discussed the situation in the village quite recently. See, yesterday a delegation from the Mironów region of Kiev arrived, where the executive service, contrary to all common sense, took the seeds of barley, chose 102 tons and 20 tons peas, leaving the peasants without seed. This was done at the direction of the head of the Mironów Paradise Administration, Sokirko and Stretovich Fedorovich, the head of the district administration of justice. I'm asking you to give a task to the profile committee to consider this situation when the seeds are taken to the peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, please! I'm asking you to calm down! I'm asking for a regulatory committee. I ask the head of the regulatory committee to clarify whether the Supreme Council should deal with matters that we have not made decisions on each day. Please, Valentin Grigorovitch's microphone. I'll bet you let the regulatory committee say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u10	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council, the Supreme Council, should consider absolutely all the proposals that come from the national MPs and, more so, the respective factions or parliamentary groups. That's why we have to ask questions about the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u11	I ask you to sit down, I'll put you to a vote, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I have thus come to understand the head of the Committee of Rules that if one of the deputies asks to consider his question, we will consider it. May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Calm down! Calm down, calm down! May I have your attention, please? I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Who wants to go back to the issue of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq? Please make up your mind. [[10:10:00]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. May I have your attention, please? "Our Ukraine" - 40, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 17, "Centre" - 9, "Deminicatives" - 1, "People's Government" - 4, "Agrarian Party - 1, "National Choice" - 0, NDP - 1, "The Faction - 7. [[B in m in s a l in]] We understood what we were voting for. There's a break for two factions for 30 minutes. factions of the Socialist Party and Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room. And we will continue our work. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions -- the Communist factions and the Socialist Party of Ukraine -- a break of 30 minutes was announced. In accordance with the Rules, I ask that the Supreme Council be informed of the reasons for the break and the results. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. The two factions requested a recess to reiterate their principled position regarding the urgent need to withdraw the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq. We Communists, like some other national MPs, were in principle opposed to our military deployment to Iraq. First of all, this is caused by our military going not to protect the Iraqi people, but to be part of the occupying forces on the side of the American military aggressors, and to defend the interests of the transnational corporations that are fighting today, and the blood of Ukrainian soldiers is being shed for their own benefit. Our military is dying there, and there are now facts of the capture of civilian citizens who work in Russian firms. Society is opposed to this shameful act of directing troops to Iraq. The attacks were a real threat not only to Iraq, Spain, and other countries, but also to Ukraine. And in society, there's also a thought about the events in Zaporozhye: whether it's a terrorist attack, whether it's a cover-up by the military and the rest of them who were trading weapons. Who voted? I'm talking to my fellow national MPs. These are the representatives of the presidential majority and our "ours" for sending a military contingent to Iraq. So far, the financing issue has not been resolved; the budget of Ukraine is funded by our contingent, which is also suffering or, let's say, causes this money to be withdrawn from the programmes to be financed by social programs. There is a letter of appeal from the Commissioner, who is speaking on behalf of many Ukrainian citizens, who are demanding the return of our military contingent. I'm making an offer. First. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you, at last, to understand the pressure under which the national MPs are under, to put this question in secret to a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day's discussion and the decision to be taken. The second problem we're concerned about is that on April 19th, Kabmin's resolution 509 and 510 in violation of Ukraine's budget were divided among the members of the people's deputies into the budget of 800 million dollars. I can't, let's say, say, say today if that's what it is. It's going to the electoral campaign, but 800 million dollars shows that the government has divided the national MPs into white and black, and today there are those who, let's say, have the opportunity to meet the needs of the electorate and those who don't. And the third. I request that the Court of Auditors check the legality of this decision and include in the agenda today draft 3373, which would protect the rights of citizens today to increase the price of bread, milk, meat, and meat products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I see, are eager to express their thoughts. Five minutes, let's write it down and exchange our thoughts. And then let's figure out the proposal that was just introduced. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u15	Sokirko. Please give the floor to the deputy of Jabor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u16	Deputy Yavorowski. Yavorowski's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u17	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, we are making such an offer to you. Indeed, the question of Iraq is painful. I am one of those who did not vote in favour of our troops. I'm talking to the Communists. Let's do a good job, and in one package, let's vote for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq and the recognition of UPA soldiers as a belligerent party. Let's do this and it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u18	Cowchenko Mikola, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u19	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We represent the interests of the people. The latest sociological study shows that 90 per cent of the population opposed to our troops being there, and the budget money went to their maintenance. So today, as representatives of the people, can we finally go back to this very archival issue? It's because, to date, someone in the face of Marchuk is going to come forward and say, "Yes, despite Parliament's decision, we've sent it, and I'm going to take it back." So there will be political blackmail. To this day, Marchuk, who has been drawn to NATO by all the fibers of his soul, is now interested in keeping these troops there. It is therefore Parliament's task to consider this issue at any cost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u20	Please, Joseph Winsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u21	Please give the word to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u22	Alexander Alexander Moroz, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u23	Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We're gonna have to pull our troops out of Iraq anyway. Today it is politically easier than it will be later when the Poles withdraw their military and so forth. Our army, our superior leadership for the withdrawal, too. She understands well that our soldiers are involved in other people’s affairs there. We have to solve this question. Perhaps you should put to a secret vote the procedure for dealing with the matter. I think that would help determine the MPs. The other one. Today was the day-to-day question of how to solve the question of "Criminals," and that question went away. The most profitable, largest metallurgical combination is being privatized in a clear order. We can't let that happen. It's the Supreme Council's business. And finally, the privatisation of the insurance company Orant. Another provision is made for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u24	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u25	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I would like to point out that this issue of the withdrawal of troops from Iraq would be worth discussing. And I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to return to the practice of speaking out to the factions. Because we're already working, we're practically finishing the session week, and it wasn't possible for factions or faction leaders to step out of the rostrum, express positions on many issues, including this. And, of course, I would like to support the initiative of the deputy of Yavorivsky, that in a batch vote it would not be a very bad initiative to demonstrate that in the Communist faction this desire is fair and pure, not lobbyist, on the other hand, because it's not good for Russia. And when it's in the package, I'm sure it'll get more than 300 votes in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u26	Tereshuk gives his word to Zarubinski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! The faction of the People's Democratic Party is very careful and carefully considering the issues of our contingent's stay in Iran. And in connection with these members of our faction, a decision has been prepared and is already under way at the registration stage in the Supreme Council, which proposes to hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on issues related to the risks of our contingent in Iraq and the risks that exist in Ukraine in connection with the presence of our contingent in Iraq. In the context of this meeting, we propose that the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service speak. Just a serious analysis of all the problems, not the emotional attitude, the emotional response has to determine our position, maybe our position on, by the way, and the output. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-05-13-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, calm down. No one's name. There is no reason for replication, read the Rules. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, well, read the Rules, no one's name and no factions have been named. Calm down. Dear colleagues, I'm summarizing the proposals, let's talk. I say again, not pressure. Please, please, don't push, I'm speaking English, don't push, don't get cocky, I'm telling you. Once again, my dear colleagues, a replica can only be given if a person’s name is given. Calm down. Dear colleagues, if you don't want to work, let's close this meeting. There'll be no lines, don't push me, there'll be no lines, I told you again. I'm telling you, calm down, don't get cocky. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares closed because of the inability to work.
