ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:29:20]] There were 421 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Regulations of Declaration. On the exit from the deputy group "Centre" and the entry into the faction "Ukraine" of the national deputy of Ukraine, Taras Crnovola. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, Your Honor? Let me inform you about the meetings of the Conciliation Council and the suggestions of the Conciliation Council. But before that, I would like to tell you, honourable national MPs, about the round table yesterday on the resolution of the political crisis in Ukraine, because I participated from the Supreme Council in the meeting and at the work of this round table. Well, you know the decision that the participants at the round table made and the corresponding joint statement signed. If you need me, I'll read it to you. Is there a need? I'll read it. May I have your attention, please? I'm reading. "The participants of the round table at their second meeting in Kiev on December 1st discussed in detail the development of the situation in Ukraine and agreed on the following: (1) The parties reaffirm their determination to exclude the use of force to solve the problems that arose after the second round of the elections of the President of Ukraine; (2) The parties agreed to immediately unlock the work of the public authorities and create conditions for them to perform their functions; (3) The parties agreed to establish an expert group to conduct an urgent legal review and make appropriate proposals for the completion of the election of the President of Ukraine on the basis of the relevant decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine; [[understand what is expected to be accepted]] (4) The parties agreed to adopt in a package amending the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of Ukraine in accordance with the draft Law 4180 and to form the Government of Ukraine on these principles; [[political reforms]] 5. The parties call on all political forces in Ukraine to decide on the need to preserve Ukraine's territorial integrity; (6) The parties call on all political forces, factions and parliamentary groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, other authorities of state and local self-government to focus their efforts on tackling the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and halting economic crises. The parties agreed to hold the next round table after the decision was taken by the Supreme Court of Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen, in the development of this statement, we discussed the actions, the algorithm of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and agreed that we would set up an expert group with two representatives from the parties, I mean Victor Yushchenka and Viktor Yanuković, the representative of the Central Electoral Commission, and one representative from the factions that work two. One representative from the State Building and Legal Committees. The committees will hold meetings, determine their representatives. And factions will hold factions and identify their representatives. We agreed that this expert group should review the current legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine and consider possible hypothetical options for decisions by the Supreme Court to make different proposals for amendments to the Election Act of the President of Ukraine. At the same time, we agreed that these options would be technically worked out, how many days it takes to make all the necessary procedural decisions, and when such a list is made, there will be a risk, and then we will see clearly how many days it takes to complete the presidential election. I use that term. And then we're going to figure out the political situation, we're going to explore where we can compress these lines, what decisions we can make, so that we don't stretch this process, and we don't increase the instability in Ukraine. And anything else, I think, to call some apiorno date right now without setting procedural points, it's going to be a little bit incorrect. So in any decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, we will have options to ensure that the Supreme Council does not stop the implementation of the Supreme Court's decisions. Following the Supreme Court's decision, it is envisaged that the Central Electoral Commission in developing the Supreme Court's decision should take its decision and issue it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should be ready to make decisions quickly. In addition, we agreed that now we have calculated the quota principle, that each faction at its meeting after the quota has been brought to it will make its own proposals for a new composition of the CLTC. But we agreed that they would be professional and objective people. At the same time, we agreed that at 14 o'clock in the 11th room, the session would begin with the temporary special commission on processing changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Each faction in this session, through its representatives, has a clear statement of its position. She agrees completely, she agrees with certain details, she agrees with some changes, to find a compromise, understanding that we also need to make that decision. We agreed to hold another meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 o'clock to approve those experts of the group who could, an expert group that could get to work. So, I would ask the faction leaders to hold a committee meeting right now, and if they don't, I'd report my proposals later, but I'd gather all the committee members to make it an objective decision so that we don't have any complaints about each other. So, Your Honor, we have agreed and we ask you to consider and support such a proposal to close the meetings of the Supreme Council today, to consult and to work with us so that we can make the right decisions tomorrow. I see that there is a desire to exchange ideas. Please sign in with your motive for five minutes. Five minutes, write it down for motive. Yes. Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Eugene Gorgen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u3	Eugene Gorenik, please. Then there will be Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, thank you for the information. We'd like to print it, and we haven't seen it in print yet, the text of the agreement. But your information is incomplete. The Supreme Council decided yesterday to resign the government. Would you like to know how this Supreme Council decision is being implemented? The other one. We made a decision on the mistrust of the CLTC. You said about the forming mechanism. I would also like to know when the new composition of the CLTC will be formed and about the implementation of the rest of the decisions made by the Supreme Council during this week. Your information was incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov passes the word Boyke, right? Boyko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I strongly request that a protocol be made immediately to impose a moratorium on the price of goods of production and technology, otherwise, within a week, we will come to a terrible collapse in the economy at all. Today, firms like Privatintertrade have already increased prices by 30 to 40 per cent, we are going to stop factories, we have made this decision, so please record it in the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u7	Yes, Ivan Mihovich, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u8	Thank you. Please give the floor to the leader of the Petr Mikolaiovich Simonek faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u9	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u10	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! First, I insisted on the Conciliation Council, which had just taken place, that we should comply with the Supreme Council's ruling of 27 November and create an investigative commission to investigate the facts of falsification in district, district and territorial commissions. Before that, all that we're going to do is go on and on and on. Whether we make a re-election or a second vote, the same divisional committees will be falsified. It's different. I would like you and I, the Supreme Council, to begin to monitor the fulfilment of the commitments of the presidential candidates and to propose the first decision to be considered is to recall the military from Iraq. Yushchenka, Yanukovich and everyone else promised that they would insist. The draft decision is appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u11	One second, let me finish. Turn on Simonnka's microphone, 30 seconds to complete the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u12	And third, last. Now I'm surprised that the representatives of our Ukraine have given up the practical commitments that Yushchenko made yesterday by signing this agreement, in accordance with paragraph 4. That's what I want everyone to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u13	Thank you. Nestor Sufrich, please, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u14	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues! Of course, we can't help but perceive what happened yesterday at the Marian Palace and we can't help but react to the memo signed yesterday. Our faction will take part in the discussion and preparation of those documents, including all the items signed yesterday, and we will consult. But we think that we have to act exclusively in the constitutional and legislative field, which is now defined by the current rules of the Constitution and by the existing legislation. And the final decision will be taken by our faction after the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And now we're going to send our representatives to these working groups and bodies that are going to be created. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u15	Kozlowski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u16	Anatoly Kozlowski, Mikolayevščina Dear National Deputies! Today, indeed, there is a great threat to the state. So we all need to act quickly, clearly, I think today we need to gather all of us, as the Chief of the Supreme Council has suggested, to gather and make such a decision that we can really resolve all the issues that the Supreme Council has taken. That and the C.V.C., that's both the laws and that's it. Because if we look at these questions for a long time, there might be a bigger problem. So as the small one in our country burns, he needs to be killed quickly. I support that position that our head and our faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, here the question has been asked, I think you've noticed that when I spoke to the Supreme Council, I said that the rulings of the Supreme Council must be carried out, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accepts acts, adopts laws, regulations and other acts, and is not written anywhere that they are not subject to enforcement. If there is doubt, the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court may need to be consulted. As for the CEVC, there was this conflict here, the colleagues, I think you've noticed, I'm talking to Eugene Gorenik and other colleagues, that after the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, whatever it may be, the decision has a bearing on the development of the Supreme Court's decision to accept the CBC. So now, if we eliminate the CIA, according to the President, and we don't assign a new composition, there's no one to make the decision. I didn't happen to say that the CEVC should make a decision, and the factions were now invited to make, prepare their proposals, in accordance with the quota principle, for the future composition of the Central Electoral Commission. As for the government, my dear colleagues, about the government. I want to read the Constitution for all of us, and for television and radio audiences, article 114 reads: The Prime Minister of Ukraine is appointed by the President of Ukraine for more than half of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is appointed by the President of Ukraine, according to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Article 115 states that the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers is the result of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, whose resignation is accepted by the President of Ukraine, by his instructions to continue to exercise his mandate until the new cabinet of Ministers is established, but not for more than 60 days. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is obliged to submit to the President of Ukraine an application for resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, either by decision of the President of Ukraine or by the adoption of a resolution of mistrust by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the Supreme Council has made the right decision, but there is yet another moment of distinguished national MPs as to the fact that the Supreme Council must follow up on its decisions. So I want to remind everyone that we don't go selectively and that we don't just take into account positions that we're interested in. Thus, in one point, I do not remember which Supreme Council Order of November 27, it is stated that the Supreme Council will consider the adoption of amendments to Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine between December 1 and 3. So let's work together and compromise on all the issues. And if the Supreme Council shows that it does not perform one position but requires others to do so, then this will be the case with the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And about the proposal made by Vladimir Seminovich Boyka. I think we can make this protocol decision to give the Cabinet of Ministers, and we really don't know who to give to, because we can't go into the Cabinet of Ministers. But the more we make decisions, the more the price goes up. Calm down, temperate, I don't think decisions can, but stability in Ukraine that we really need. Peter Mikolaiovich spoke about the commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invited the members of the Conciliation Council, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the factions to give a candidate a person who was not involved. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to find such a person in the session room. And after that, under the commission's head, when we approve of it, at the Conciliation Council, we'll form the composition of the commission of inquiry. Just a minute. I'd like to ask the leaders of MP groups and factions, non-fractional thinking and the Conciliation Council at 12 o'clock, and then we'll look at it, and then we'll form it. I can see it, I can see it. And at 12 o'clock we'll find a common solution. I would now like to make an urgent request to participants and organizers of political demonstrations. Dear colleagues, at least "quick help" pass to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm just asking you. I'm not talking about doing what the deal was. Replica: The faction was mentioned, and this will be the end. All right, good fellows. Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block. Today’s session of the Conciliation Council and of the Replicas in the Hall gives us reason to say, unfortunately, that the individual political forces are allowing an attempt to delay the negotiation process and, on the other hand, the arbitrary treatment of the agreements reached yesterday in the Marian Palace. I would like to stress that "Our Ukraine" insists that they address the key conflict in a package. We are ready to address the issue of political reform, but in the context of the resolution of the political crisis. In this regard, I would like to point out that five points should be agreed upon. The President's re-election date, the adoption of a new edition of the President's Election Act, the formation of a new composition of the CBC, the formation of a new government. And in this context, we are ready to support the political reform, the agreed position on polytreform. I would like to point out that we are not going away from making a complex agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-02-m0.u19	Dear people's deputies, we're practically talking about the same thing, we're just putting some other accents together. I think at the next meeting of the Conciliation Board, we'll find a consensus. I'm doing the ad again. At 12 o’clock on the third floor, a meeting of the Conciliation Council will take place in the sitting room. Just a minute. Now there are no speeches from the committee heads, don't dictate the terms. I want to say again, calm down, please. At 14 o’clock in the eleventh room there will be a meeting of the Temporary Special Commission to finalize the draft Law amending the Constitution. At the suggestion of MPs and factions, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll resume our meeting at 10 o'clock. Please be in the session room. Thank you. I mean, I'll be in the session room tomorrow.
