ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests invited to the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:59]] Registered -419 There are 419 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, Article 4.2.2. and Article 4.2, paragraph 8. 3 The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meetings of the parliamentary factions and political parties of the Ukrainian industry and entrepreneurs and the "Trudova Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine at number 58 of 21 April 2004 and the National Assembly of the Ukrainian National Deputies of 21 April 2004 ask you to announce the following. First of all, the self-disengagement of the parliamentary faction of the political parties of the Ukrainian industry and entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. The second is about the formation of a parliamentary faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine", which is short for "Trudova Ukraine" composed of 28 Ukrainian national deputies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sharov Igor Fedorović, was elected Head of the Trudova faction. To represent the faction authorized by the national deputies of Ukraine - Dashutin Grigory Petrovich, Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich. The objective of the Labour Ukraine MP is to create conditions for the people's deputies of Ukraine, members of the parliamentary faction of their pre-election programmes and the realization of political interests based on the sole political and socio-economic views. This message was signed by Igor Sharov, Head of the Hard Ukraine faction. Dear colleagues, you have a meeting schedule for today. As agreed, today we will first consider those issues that apply have to do with the events that took place in Mukachevo. After that, we will consider questions that we failed to consider with you yesterday. You know, the honourable colleagues that we have under the Rules for the consideration of the matter are 45 minutes away. I don't think we'll be able to consider this in 45 minutes. So I'm proposing the next procedure. For a report to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leader of our group, which we sent with you by decision of the Conciliation Council to study the situation in Mukachevo, Alexander Alexiyovich Zinchenka, 15 minutes. And 10 minutes is the answer to the questions. For a report from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, five minutes. The answers to the questions are 10 minutes. The head of the Security Service is also five minutes and ten minutes. From the Attorney General's Office, five minutes to report, and 10 minutes to answer questions. A human rights officer, five minutes for a report and five minutes for an answer to a question. The representatives of our Ukraine are preparing and promising that we have agreed on what will be shown within 10 minutes of the video on these events. So the schedule, this minimum schedule shows that we're going to have to do without talking for at least an hour and a half. That's why I'm proposing. Please let go of your hands, dear fellows. Put your hands down, please, 'cause it'll be 45 minutes. So I suggest that we take the morning session, the first half of the morning session to 12 o’clock for consideration. And one more thing, dear colleagues. And one more thing, dear colleagues. I would very much ask, especially to the representatives of "Our Ukraine," my dear colleagues, I would very much ask you, let's take a lesson from yesterday's question of listening to this question. So we wanted it as good as ever, and it came out a little bit like that. I mean, I understand your turbulence, and you're right, but let's listen, ask questions, and then we'll be able to speak in about 30 minutes, and then we'll be able to explain our emotions at some point. So we're moving on to the question of information. Sign up, three minutes out of the procedure. Yes, please report to the monitor. Please, Rabbit Vladimir. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u2	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I want us to see in our rules of procedure that we can also see time for the national MPs who were members of that committee that worked in Mukachevo, because without such information it would be unilateral and biased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u3	Well, once again, I've been leading the board as vice president of the Supreme Council, and he's starting information. 15 minutes, Alexander Alexiyovich will inform about the work of this commission. And somewhere in my estimate, within 25 minutes, we'll have the opportunity to participate in the discussion. So those who want to speak will have the opportunity to do so. Please, Seminoga, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u4	Give the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u5	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It's an extraordinary question -- whether the law is in force in Ukraine or whether the Constitution is in force in Ukraine. And we can't just gallop through this question just to ask a little bit of the question that's being considered. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, we must today draw serious conclusions, conclusions that will ensure that we carry out a normal presidential campaign and, accordingly, Ukraine's movement to a civilized Europe. That is why we urge Adam Ivanovich to be able to speak from each faction after hearing the information of everyone summoned to the Supreme Council today. I think all factions should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u7	Please, Mountain, get ready for Droguntz's.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u9	Please, the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich! "Our Ukraine" agrees that the discussion of the information listed by you officials, including the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will take place in the mode in which you proposed. Instead, I'm bringing you to the knowledge that we've already prepared and we're going to register a draft ruling on this issue. Agree, Adam Ivanovich, that after discussing the matter and not making a decision on the matter, it is not to say anything. The Supreme Council should be able to express its position on the events that took place in Mukachevo. So we suggest that by the first hour, there be a discussion of a draft decision that we will register before then, and that each faction be given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u11	Please, the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u12	Thank you. I ask you to give the floor to the leader of the Communist Party, the leader of our faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u13	Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u14	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! The Communist faction suggests that after considering the problems surrounding the elections in Mukachevo, it is urgent that we consider an urgent procedure that concerns not only Ukraine but the whole world: the return of our military personnel from Iraq. People are dying there, reports are coming that there were other conflicts, and the result is that the Iraqis were killed. This could lead to the use of terrorist acts against Ukraine and the suffering of Ukrainian citizens. I ask you very much to put this problem on the table as a matter of urgency. And the second. I ask you to consider the question of the price of bread, the moratorium on the price of bread.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again: according to the Rules, we have 45 minutes to consider the issue. We've agreed with you. I see that, in principle, we agreed to practically triple the amount of time spent under the Rules. Anyone who wants to speak from the faction, please register. To the extent possible, factions will act. We do not have the right to oblige each faction manager to act. This is the right of every faction. I'm talking to "Our Ukraine," Roman Zvaric. Please, you are absolutely right that our discussion should end with appropriate decisions. That's what we're talking about. So I'm asking you to give a draft ruling, distribute it, while we hear the information, it should be on your hands. And those who are going to participate in the discussion, I think they're going to touch that, and touch that question too. With regard to questions about Iraq and others. I'm asking you to prepare proposals because one of the proposals we've already voted on is 163 votes. This offer was not supported. So for now, I don't see any other projects, so get ready, we'll finish this question, then we'll move on to other hot issues. So the procedure is over. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Zinchenko. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, guests, journalists! The third elections of the city’s head, Mukacheve, in recent years are marked by events that have taken place in this Carpathian town of about 120,000 people, of whom 82,000 have the right to participate in elections, public attention, politicians, MPs, journalists, international organizations, and observers. Long before the election day on April 18, the atmosphere grew into numerous violations of legislation, both during the preparation, conduct, and even after the elections were completed. In line with the appeal of the National Deputies and the commission of the Conciliation Council of the Commission under my headship, he worked for a period of time in the city of Mukachev. We analyzed the results of the elections, the official reports, and the circumstances of the conflicts and elections. The group was represented by the leaders of the 4 professional parliamentary committees: the State Building and the Local Self-Government of Matvienka, the legislative enforcement of the law-enforcement activities of Moses, the fight against organized crime and corruption of Stretovic, the legal policy of Onopenko. In order to make the study of the situation as open and transparent as possible, we have engaged in practically all official meetings of the national MPs from the faction of the SDPI(o) Hare, Haydash, Shepetin, Shufrich. In addition, we were accompanied by representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General’s Office, and the Ukrainian Supreme Council for Human Rights. I am grateful to the Human Rights Commissioner, Nina Carpathian, and her team for their cooperation and personal presence in the elections in Mukacheva. During these events, the Ukrainian ombudsman demonstrated his political integrity and his ability to rise above electoral passions for the main reason: the protection of human rights for free will. Nina Ivanovna’s own view of the events will be expressed in her statement. During our work, we met with the head of the government and the head of the archery, the heads of the district and city administrations of internal affairs, the district attorney, the deputies of the Martyr City Council, both the top rated candidates for the post of city chief Mukacheve Victor Balogoya and Ernest Nusser. I want to point out right away that these meetings had no sign of any follow-up. The working group was fully aware of the limits of its powers laid down in the Constitution and in the law of Ukraine. And so it is at the request of the working group of the Supreme Council that the leaders of the appropriate authorities and forces of the area, at the request of the working group of the Supreme Council, have expressed their position and attitude towards the events surrounding the elections of the martyr's city head. In addition, we were able to communicate with the voters themselves, the Mukachevo people, and, as it were, we were able to feel the general atmosphere of these election races. After a brief meeting with the heads of the district, members of the working group immediately went to Mukachevo. Three polling stations: 1st, 3rd and 26th. On the first two, we had the opportunity to personally see the results of the storms that were carried out by unknown young people on the night of Sunday on Monday after counting the votes. We saw the broken windows, the broken doors, the broken windows on the second floor, and conversations with security guards and local residents. Convinced: The aim of the attackers was to intimidate members of the electoral boards or observers present. It was normal to work with the city authorities and representatives of the territorial electoral commission that we failed, but there was no one. Mr. Nuser, who was declared a TVK winner, had a brief meeting with us and then disappeared in an unknown direction. Similarly, he disappeared and his predecessor, who, according to the President’s decree, carried out the responsibilities of the city’s head for the election. A strange epidemic of extinction has gripped all members of the TV network. So we were unable to hear any comments from representatives of the central electorate, from the electoral commission itself. And the main thing is to see the protocols according to which the TVC has drawn its conclusions on the results of the vote. In general, it seemed that there was no local self - rule in Mukachevo. The police and the prosecutor's office are. The right tables on the cabinets are. And there's no self-government. This also vividly illustrated the very mythical meeting of the land of the land where Mr. Nuser took an oath and received a certificate from the city’s head. We were unable to obtain any documentary confirmation of both the fact that the meeting was held and its legitimacy. Of the 43 deputies in the meeting, there were only 14 of them, but this did not interfere with the head’s oath and the setting up of a board in the office. I must also point out that an extremely serious incident took place during the group’s work. On the night of Monday, at about two o’clock, a group of unknown youths broke into the premises of the land, beat up the next one, broke the door in the premises of the territorial electoral commission, and stole, or, we believe, could have stolen the ballot papers. On the other hand, the days before that, we received appropriate information about the possibility of this direction. And at my request, the head of the hoax turned to the head of the city police, noting the need to strengthen the security of the area. Instead, about an hour after this conversation, security was removed altogether. Security was removed on command. Who? Why, contrary to the agreement on strengthening the protection of the land, the opposite was made. Now I will not stop at the question: Who and how did not provide adequate protection? It's not about the task force. But our warning was grossly ignored. In general, local police action is less surprising. The law enforcement authorities seem to have been deliberately involved in performing their own functions. Speaking of law enforcement, I wouldn't want to generalize this conclusion to everyone without exception. After all, we have found that many militiamen have done their duty honestly in the field, even under the pressure of presumptuous youths. Now a few words about the general impression of travel and work. Peresh’s entire work group did not have the task of carrying out any follow-up activities and increasingly influence the results of the elections. The goal of our work was to find the situation as objectively as possible, to identify conflict organizers, and to draw up an objective and systematic picture of events. And we find it critical. As a result of severe opposition, the values of democracy have been challenged. Humans have become disheartened in their ability to influence events, mistrust in democratic mechanisms. In many of them, resentment, cynicism, and insolence were caused by lawbreakers. Now specifically about the conditions of the elections. All members of the group have a consolidated position on this. I think that other national MPs present at our meetings will not deny this position. The violation of the law took place at all stages of the electoral process and continues now. Was there pressure or political persecution? Yes. There was pressure, and there was political persecution. There were also individuals. We had a meeting with people who had written down the facts of threats and dismissals, moral pressures, and so forth. In the elections, two forces collided at large. The difference between them is that one of them took advantage of the authorities, and the other one had no such opportunities. I don't have the ability to stop at all the circumstances of the election marathon. All I can say is that the equality between the conditions of pre-election agitation, in other words, can be put into grave doubt. This included the temporary closure of the "M-studio" and the disclosure of candidate positions in local and even central media. But they were flowers, as it turns out. The most interesting thing started after the vote. On Sunday's vote of April 18th to 20th, I'd like to emphasize it in the city was relatively calm. We have statements from the election club and numerous observers about the violations that have taken place, but they have not yet been of a total nature. But the night after the election, several districts were attacked by unknown persons. Under strange circumstances, these attacks began after information on the advantages of one of the candidates came to light. The organizers of the provocation seem to have considered the fact that Mukachev had an abnormally high number of observers. And we decided to move the process of adjustment and impact on the results of the election for the night. According to virtually all eyewitnesses, there was a high concentration of groups of people with a specific appearance day and night in the city. The activities of these groups were clearly coordinated. In addition to their own attacks on the polling stations, several clashes took place that night, and they were injured. In particular, there have been clashes between all the constituencies of the People's Deputies of "Our Ukraine" with unknown people of strong character who have focused around the districts since their closure. On Monday, three representatives of our Ukraine addressed forensics. The relevant materials will be handed over to the interim investigator of the parliamentary commission and to the relevant investigating bodies. These facts lead to the conclusion that there is a separate, specific and absolute unconstitutional and illegal influence on the electoral process on the side, let's say directly, criminal or semi-criminal structures. This, of course, is not a legal conclusion. But after meeting and talking to the electorate, that was the impression of the district authorities. Here's the vote count. By the third hour of the night, in the vast majority of polling stations, the vote was completed. The representatives of our Ukraine passed on the summation of all but 26 sites. The 26th district, I'll say, has about three thousand votes, and in principle it was no longer able to influence the results of the elections. According to their report, Victor Baloga’s advantage over Ernest Nusser is more than 5,000. He came out with almost a dozen deputies of the land, who were also mostly observers from the Company, the Soccer, the Greens, our Ukraine and others, and that was exactly what the Balogah schedule was for. But at 4:30 p.m., the territorial election commission announces the result -- the victory of Ernest Nestor, Nuser, with almost the same difference. I made no mistake. [[Applause]] How could the results have changed? There's just no extra. There is no answer to that question. We have not been able to meet with TVC representatives and have not been able to get to know the records of the business commission and the summary protocol on which the head of the TVC has declared one of the winners. The work of the TVC itself took place in a rather strange mode of secrecy. Yes, there was an invitation from the district prosecutor, and I personally consider this to be a normal factor in this situation of hard opposition, but at this meeting no observers were allowed? Why? On what grounds? We were unable to get answers to these questions. The work of the TVC was unconventional, in paws, organized and territorial. Yes, there was direct and uncontrollable access to work in the TVC room from the city head and headquarters of one of the candidates. Finally, the complete apophygue was an attempt to legitimize the results of the election by means of a fire session of the land that left no material evidence behind, as well as a further night attack on the premises of the TVC and the disappearance of all documentary confirmations of the vote with the members of the TVC themselves. [[Applause]] I certainly do not claim that these protocols have disappeared, but also to confirm their existence so far. In any case, none of the national deputies were able to obtain these confirmations. In completing a brief review of the factual part of our work, I would like to point out that, according to the prosecutor, five criminal cases have been opened since our working group arrived. The sixth case, according to him, will be opened with regard to the attack on TV. What can we conclude from the analysis of these circumstances? First, were there gross violations that had a decisive effect on the outcome of the elections? Yes, we believe that such violations took place. There may also be a dispute over their number, but it is simply not possible to ignore gross violations of electoral legislation. And as I've already shown, there's been a violation of the law at all stages of the electoral process and it's going on now. Of course, we do not claim the role of judicial authority, so please do not accept this claim as a judgment. This is an assessment of the situation and the position of all members of the group on such an assessment is exactly the same. Second, what is the reason for the aggravation of the situation, and what is the danger of martyrdom? It's worth noting here that a set of problems has accumulated over the years, it has several components -- economic, political, essentially criminal, etc. But that's not the point right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u18	There's something else that matters. Regrettably, in Mukachevo we see a close interlocking of the interests of power, power, and criminality. This is a very dangerous situation that requires urgent intervention, otherwise it will be no longer a violation of electoral legislation and administrative abuse, but a cynical and systematic disregard for citizens’ rights. That is, basic constitutional principles are at stake. With that in mind, we simply have no right to allow citizens' mistrust in the Constitution and the effectiveness of democracy. In particular, I would like to point out that martyrdom events have revealed new technologies for falsification of the electoral process, and that Ukrainian electoral arithmetic has emerged. This is when it is absolutely not important, as voted, the necessary result, known in advance. In doing so, it is not important for the sums to bear witness to a decisive victory. Of course, you can't say it's just a native know-how. Yes, Joseph the Vissarionovich, back in the 1930s, pointed out that the main thing was not the actual fact of the vote, but his calculations. And much later, another great Democrat, Samos, cynically claimed that his opponents won the election and he won the vote. But in Mukatev, our indigenous geniuses of black technology went even further and reached unknown abrasions. We're in a dead end. The third day after the election is over, and the legal basis for the prosecution is not available, since there are no legitimate results and legal reasons for the chosen person to perform his or her duties. So there's the widest possible space for any manipulation. And here I want to point out to us legislators, because the directors of torture have used electoral legislation to a large extent to bring the situation to this deaf legal corner. I cannot help but recall the role of the media, especially the central media, which highlighted the situation openly unobjectively and engaged. And finally, what a way out of this situation. I believe that the solution requires unprecedented action by all structures — from the Supreme Council to the National Security Council, with the involvement of better specialists in the force organs, their central apparatus. The Supreme Council can and should ensure that the situation is constantly monitored and that all actions of the city’s self - government, executive and judicial authorities are clearly monitored, use available legal and political mechanisms to ensure objective investigation of events and, above all, to prevent their recurrence. I think it's too early to put the final dot. Two members of the group -- Matvienko and Stretovic -- stayed in Mukacheva yesterday. There's still the head of the temporary commission. Besides, as you know, the President has given appropriate orders to the Attorney General. That is, we can expect the legal basis for the solution to the situation to be clarified in some way in the near future. With regard to the decision, all alternatives should be considered, considering that people are waiting, not for political rhetoric, but for specific legal aid, legal mechanisms, and the protection of their interests. Everything around Mukachev needs to draw the most serious conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u19	Please sign up for the questions. Let me explain. Ten minutes. Skomarowski. Get ready, Tsarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u20	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Karmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u21	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u22	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Mr. Zinchenko, I thank you very much for the courage with which the conclusions that have been made in this rostrum for the first time. I have witnessed these events, and I have actually seen the total inactivity of the Security Service, the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the complete subordination of the militia bandits. Full! Don't you think it's necessary to place some emphasis on the head of these district structures and the role of the government in the presence of the President of Ukraine right now on behalf of the commission? And have you been told about the role of individuals in the leadership of the Ukrainian Presidential Authority and the connection to smuggling?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u23	In my report, I noted that the roots of this situation are deep, too deep: both economic, political, and social. I don't want the verdicts to be court-martialed today, but we have to make political conclusions. And among the political conclusions, there is a need for substantial staff renewal of the composition of all organs: both local self-government, and all the power structures that are responsible for the events.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u24	Please, Tsarenko. Get ready for Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u25	Tsarenko, faction of the SDPU. Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u26	Please, Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u27	Alexander Alexiyovich, I have a question for you. On Monday evening, you said that Opaczko’s city head and city head Nuser had disappeared. I want to remind you how you invited in the dictatorial form that we're used to working with you in a party of united Social Democrats, if they don't show up at 9:30, you're going to make the right kind of decisions. I want to inform you, Alexandre Alexiyovich, that 21 hours and 30 minutes of Opaczko’s journey from 50 miles [80 km] away and Nuser’s approach. We've been waiting for you and the head of the shell for about 40 minutes, which, by the way, I've had an opportunity to report to the 5th channel during the fifth broadcast. Please tell me why you're here at 9:00 p.m. on April 19th.?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u28	I thank you for such an opportunity to see in dictatorial skills. But I'd like to comment on something else. In fact, at 9: 30 a.m., it was the first day of our arrival, and we worked until 12 p.m. in the area of the land. I said, and once again, I confirm that there were meetings with residents, with representatives of the city council, and at 9:30 p.m., it was at 9:45 p.m. By the way, the head of the shell was present at all the meetings on the first and second days. If I wanted to be present, and where was Mr. Nuser and Mr. Opacco, who disappeared, really, in an unknown direction, I don't know anymore. I am not responsible for the actions of officials who were to appear on this committee. And the main thing. I think we had 25 hours to figure it out. We warned, 18 hours after arriving in the area, the head of the district government and the head of the fraud that they must provide conditions for the work of the parliamentary commission. We came, not to rest, but to work and perform functions within the limits of our privileges.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u29	Please, Belarus, prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u30	May I give the floor to the national deputy in the field?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u31	Please, it's Terrena's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u32	Teren, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear reporter, the storm of the polling stations at night is a typical fascism that spreads all over Ukraine from Mukachevo. And the basis of this fascism is the triad: the power structures, the power and the criminality. And you've rightly mentioned steel technology, which is that in Ukraine today we have steel fascism, and specifically Stalin Medvedchuk fascism. But Fascism became possible because at the same time the Nazi party was not banned. The question is, don't you think that in the context of events, those political parties, those neo-fascist parties whose activities are based on ideology itself, should be banned in the dictatorial capacity of the former Sufric deputy, who was the organizer and instigator of all these events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u33	My answer is very short. Such actions can be carried out exclusively by a court of law. Replacing democratic actions that will have an exclusive political character, and another ban will not lead to any political consequences -- just exacerbating the situation. Court-martial. And that's the main conclusion. We insist on the most serious judicial review of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the intervention of all organs, the qualified assessment and the court's responsible decision. One of these decisions could immediately raise the level of judicial review directly to the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u34	Please, Baranowski. I'm sorry, Chernobyl. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u35	Dear reporter, first, did you not get the impression during your visit to Mukachevo that the power structures that were called upon to ensure order during the elections and in particular life and the health of the national MPs were not only inactive but also accepted criminality? The other one. Do you not think that in this case the Supreme Council has every reason to ask the President to withdraw from his position as Head of the Power Block of the BSS and the Ministry of Internal Affairs? And the third. Did you recall what happened in Mukachevo to you from the 1930s when fascism came to power in Germany?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u36	In my report, I said that the power structures, I emphasize in particular the structures that belong to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, have consistently been involved in performing non-specific functions. I support this conclusion. As for the actions that the President has to take, I think that if there are legal investigations and judicial consequences, both the President and the Supreme Council have to decide with everyone, without exception, who were involved in these trials and were to be responsible for their consequences, all of us, without exception, will insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u37	Please, Baranowski, prepare Samofalova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u38	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Please pass the word to Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u39	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, as we know, Mukachevo is not the first place we've stumbled, until that was Sumi, before that was Romani, and you know what was going on there. Don't you think that the elections in these cities and in Mukachev, and the police's inaction, the beating of the bandits, are brought on the territory of Ukraine by the Donetsk technology for the organization of the next presidential election? That's the first question. The other one. Here is the minister of the interior, very proud of his post and general title, but his ministry of March 2001 has not yet established and has not yet determined who among the militias of the bandits beat Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. And do you think Ukraine needs such a minister? And the third question. In the light of what happened. Chi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u40	Call technology whatever you want. But I would like to say, and the conclusion we have is absolutely convincing that they are, they work, and they work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u41	Please, Samofalov. Prepare Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Aleksevic, Samofalov, faction of “Regions of Ukraine”. I have no reason not to believe your information. To tell you the truth, it's become simple, mildly speaking, sad about what's going on. I have an explanation. You said that the police were carrying out a command to leave security at the dealership where the ballots were selected. Is it a local initiative or was it a team with Kiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u43	I think you understand that under any circumstances, with the exception of modern technology, the command is given by the command of the commander who is doing something. There are subordinates, there is a structure with which to subordinate. So it's not possible to do this without the activates of the vertical. So I'm absolutely sure the teams are. [[Applause]] The commands were, and they were working.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u44	Please, Razadowski. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u45	Thank you. Please give the word to the People's Deputy of the Rabbit, the faction of the SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u46	Please, Rabbit Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, I'm not surprised by your special attitude towards Social Democrats, which most likely disappoints me. But I'd like to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two questions. Please tell me, why didn't your report get information from the head of the city's internal affairs department about the beating of two militiamen by three national deputies from the faction of "Our Ukraine," the removal of three illegal cameras, the identification of a militia officer? And why did you include the concept of a mythical session in the handbook when you only wrote a request for a district attorney who would give you information, help you delete or confirm documents for a session like this? You have an answer to the prosecutor's request or for any other reason you have included it in your own report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. You know, I can really tell you, and I agree with you that there's a lot of things that haven't entered the report. If I were given an hour, I would give you a lot more facts that would only enhance the picture in general. That's the first one. [[Applause]] Secondly, I think I have a moral-ethical complication, and I understand that after my report, they will mention my personal attitude. So, I could say, don't look for my attitude to the SDR where it wasn't. I served as deputy head of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] I would like to emphasize once again, my view of these events is that the powers of some forces that relied on authority were exercised, others that did not. And that's the principle of difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u49	Please, Katusheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u50	I have a question: why did the "ours" wake up today? Wasn't there a similar divide in 98th, 99th, in 2002 with our leader in Crimea in 2002? Such insolence! And everyone knew that. The CD building was piled up, butchered by veterans in Lviv, beaten up. Where were they then? Why, then, did they not bring anyone to justice for the misdemeanors that my friends, the Communist comrades, had created? Now we're awake.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u51	I can say that, as far as this is concerned, my well-respected colleague, when it comes to specific conclusions, the situation will develop. If a point is not set, it will be endless. And sometimes you have to put a stop to it. There is no opposition from political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u52	Yes, thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u53	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u54	For information, please contact the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Mikola Vasilovich Bilokon, for a report of 5 minutes and 10 minutes to answer questions. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u55	Honorable members of the presidency, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! According to your commission, I inform you of the measures taken by the internal affairs authorities to ensure public order during the elections of the martyr's urban head, which took place on April 18th, and the reactions and reports of criminal events that took place on this day. In preparation for the elections, the Ministry of Internal Affairs’ district administration was given the appropriate authority. According to him, on April 16, this year, the operation of an operating headquarters led by the first deputy chief, Rusinim, was launched. It was coordinated. The forces of the Carpathians involved in the protection of public order in Mukachevo and the adoption of appropriate decisions. Powers and resources from other areas of law enforcement were not involved, since the district manager argued that their use was inappropriate. Under all 36 constituencies, a management unit of the district apparatus, its structural units, and the miscreants of the Carpathians was installed. In total, 270 militia personnel were involved in the field election and electoral services, and eight reinforced investigative and operational groups were involved. In the event of a complication of the operational situation, a reserve of 140 internal affairs officials was created. In addition, 100 internal affairs officials and 40 internal affairs units stationed in the city of Uzhgrad were provided with public order protection in the district center. As noted earlier, the election process was controlled by 140 observers, including nine foreign nations, 76 Ukrainian national deputies and various political parties. Internal affairs have made an effort to ensure public order. At the same time, I will report to you that seven allegations and reports of criminal events have been reported, including four allegations of hooliganism, including the beating of the Polish National Deputy, and three of the obstacles to the exercise of electoral rights. Every allegation of bullying as a crime, a criminal investigation into internal affairs, has resulted in criminal cases. They are being followed by the Department of Internal Affairs’ Chief Investigator. As a result of the operations and investigations carried out on this day, there are several persons who may be involved in the commission of these crimes. And I think by the first count, the Attorney General's office will be informing you about the detection of these crimes. There are also materials that will serve as a basis for keeping them in order under the law. According to three facts, we have been transferred to the Public Prosecutor’s Office to prevent citizens from exercising their voting rights. I would like to take a closer look at the events that took place on the night of April 19, this year. After announcing the results of the election, four unknowns were unwarrantedly attacked by police officers who were in uniform and in duty. In particular, they struck several times at the head of the district office of Shelepec, causing him bodily harm. This fact is confirmed by civilians alongside militia personnel. There is an objective one. an act of medical examination.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u56	Mikola Vasilovich, please wait. Mikola Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! We agreed that we would listen to the information. We will express our indignation during our discussion of information. An oil man. Peter Olinick, please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Dear colleagues! Yes, please, Mikola Vasilovich, you have 30 seconds. Complete and answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u57	I would also like to inform the National Deputies that, according to the order established by the decision of the College of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there is an official examination of the facts that the Ukrainian National Deputies have referred to regarding the events that took place in Mukachevo. Moreover, under the commission of the Acting Minister of Interior, as I am in the hospital, Deputy Minister of Interior Lieutenant General Zubczuk and colleagues from the central apparatus, who will conduct a proper examination of the facts claimed by the Ukrainian National Deputies regarding the actions of Internal Affairs officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Let me explain. I'm sorry, I don't have a recording on my monitor. Please show me a general monitor. Yes, there is. Please, 10 minutes. Alexiyuk. Prepare the Police.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u59	I beg you to give John the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u60	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u61	Mr. Minister, you have stated that you led the orderly militia in Mukacheva Rusin, deputy chief of the Zacarpathian Authority. Do you know that it was Mr. Rusin who appeared everywhere in the precincts, who intervened in the commission's work in the presence of these thugs, the masters-instructors? And the second. Do you know that at the 15th precinct, a colonel who received instructions from criminal authorities opened a door for 30 bandits led by social Democrats such as Shurma and Pisarczuk and Shepetin. Do you know these facts? And the second. Mr. Shufrich said to me, "Did you not know where you were going? Mukachevo is Ukrainian Palermo." Then perhaps you too will listen to Mr. Shufrich’s point of view, and you will make an order in this Mukachevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u62	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u63	Allow me to answer his request to the people’s representative. I don't know that Colonel Rusin's Chief of Operations personally looked into the political issues that took place during the election campaign. More than that, he ran the gangs. A test is being carried out and the test will result in a decision being made. You know what is on this issue the mandate of the Head of State. Including our central staff, we will talk to the deputies who have made appropriate statements, including Mr. Zayt. And with the observers, they're working there now with Mr. Zubczak, I've informed you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues from "Our Ukraine"! You ask a question that you want to hear the answer to. Or do not ask him if you are not interested in the answer, or when asked, hear the answer. Then, I emphasize once again, we will have the opportunity to speak, and you will express your resentment, your discontent publicly, no one will interfere with you. Please, Polit, get ready for Tweak.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u65	Andrew Politt, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to George Vladimirovich Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u66	Bull's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u67	Buiko, Communist Party of Ukraine, Donetsk Region. Nikolai Vasiljevic, unfortunately, your department in all elections is operating in a standard manner, interfering with the electoral process. The current situation is also characteristic of the Donetsk region. In particular, the latest example of elections in the 61st district. I'm calling specific facts. The constituency 81 of the Novoselkov Region, when Senior Lieutenant Weselkin refused to allow an observer, the People's Deputy, who sits in front of you, to the polling station. When the National Deputy Eshchenko in the city, who was also an observer, was brought to the City Police Department and began to find out the relationship with him. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! Regarding the elections in the Donetsk region, I did not know of this fact. We'll do the service check and I'll do it. I'll check on you personally. I'll check and let you know. I'll report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Now I'm talking to socialists and Lucenka. Dear colleagues, press the button, ask questions, not chorus. Please, Tuck. Get ready for Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u71	Roman Tchac. Please pass the word to Peter Oliynik, "Our Ukraine" faction. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE An oil man's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u72	Please, Peter Olive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u73	Minister, Oliynik, 125 constituency, faction of our Ukraine. Do you know, I have four questions that at 10 a.m., I, Ratushniak and Czervonenko filed a phone number application with names that came from 20 gangs from all over Ukraine? The second question. Do you know that at 12 o’clock at 12 o’clock in the morning, bandits broke in at 13 o’clock. And I thank the militia in this area, who held a fight for 30 minutes and there's damage, is the face of one militiaman completely broken? Question three. I don't know who you're talking about, but at this time, I, the Immortal, the Stacks and the Pawnee with the badges and in my hands with the badge?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u74	Please answer Mikola Vasilovich. Answer Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u75	Honorable national deputies, in all these facts, are being vetted by the service, without exception. I've already informed you today that the deputy minister has left, the curator of this region, the colonel general, he's conducting a checkup. We're informing the Attorney General about the results, which will give an appropriate conclusion on all of these issues, including the beating you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u76	Please, Shevchuk, prepare Chichkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u77	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Mr. Minister, my colleagues and I are anxious to hear the report today, both Mr. Xinchenko and yours. And we, you know, have a lot of concern about the fact that this conflict could be the guise of a long period of public conflict in our state. As we know, the task of the law enforcement agencies is not just to open criminal cases, but to introduce a set of preventive, preventive measures, because crime prevention is the primary function of the police, in our view. So tell me, please, how do you assess the effectiveness of such preventive measures by the IMF? Or were things in Mukachev as unexpected to you as the banal traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u78	Your Honor, I'll allow you to answer your question. Indeed, one of the functions of internal affairs agencies is to prevent wrongdoing of any kind, including by ensuring public order, including in electoral campaigns. We're checking all these questions right now. We are also studying situations that we had before, and we may look at our normative acts and make appropriate adjustments to ensure that we are better equipped with law and order. Maybe more than that, we'll be joining the regions, regardless of the unwillingness of district managers, from other regions, from other areas, from other cities, perhaps even from the central apparatus, so that we have fewer anti-population shows in the area of Zakarpatja, in the territory of Mukachevo. We will take appropriate measures to react.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u79	Please, Uncle, get ready for Ivy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u81	Please, Timoshenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u82	Minister, every deputy in this room knows for a fact that you are a member of Victor Medvedchuk, that he has appointed you to this position. With Medvedchuk, you and the criminal structures at Zakarpatt organized this Sabbath. [[Applause]] Yesterday, together with diplomatic representations, we saw a video where your omonics, at your direction, beat the stakes of MPs, who beat the peace population with sticks. And I want to ask you, once upon a time, officers of honor were shot after such a fall. You're capable of writing a statement. [[Applause]] Are you able to write up an application for discharge?Oh, my God! And let me remind you that when you took office, you said publicly that you would be involved in political processes. After that, they could have taken up the position. Please also give an answer, where are you doing the newsletters?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u83	Dear National Deputy. The first part of your answer. I was appointed not by the head of administration, but by the president of our nation. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the first question. The other one. Retirement. This is also a decision that the President will make regarding the actions of the Minister of Internal Affairs. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the ballot papers, a proper check is now being carried out. There's a criminal case going on today. We'll keep you informed of the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u84	Please, Ivan Stepanovich Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u85	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Mikolo Vasilovich, like many of my colleagues, I personally know the seventh Minister of Interior of Ukraine. You're seventh. Since I was six, I've never met you. Tell me, after all that you've done by becoming Minister of Internal Affairs, you have two outcomes. I'm not talking about colleague Julia Volodymyrable just giving you advice. You have two options -- either name whose orders you're making, and who's the head director of these orders, or honestly write an application and go, don't torture the militia or us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u86	I've already said that. I gave the answer to that question earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the answers to the questions are complete. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I don't see the need. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues from our Ukraine, allow the General to take his place. Dear colleagues from "Our Ukraine," don't interrupt the session, because I'm going to call off the meeting. Victor Andryovich! Dear colleagues from "Our Ukraine," well, don't show your rudeness in front of the cameras. Dear colleagues, here's a proposition. Be careful. I'll put it to the vote now. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the faction "Our Ukraine", which insists that for another 10 minutes the minister continue to ask questions. Please make up your mind. [[The "Council" system is not working.]] Yes, please take down the vote and restart the system. Dear colleagues, calm down because you can see that even electronics are affected by your emotions. Yes, I'll put it to the vote again. Ready, "Work"? Once again, I am voting on the proposal of the faction "Our Ukraine" to continue to answer the questions of the Minister of Internal Affairs for another 10 minutes. I'd like to make a statement. We wait, they'll tell us when the system's ready. With your hands? Vote. [[11:07:58]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. The faction? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" is 99, "Regions of Ukraine" is 3, communists 52, Social Democrats, "Trudova Ukraine" is zero, the Socialist Party is 20. Block Timoshenko - 19, People's Rule - 2, Deminicatives - 1, Agrarian Party - 2, People's Choice - 0, NDP - 6, Postfaction - 11. Let's go. Dear colleagues, please do not raise your hands. Only those whose names were mentioned are entitled to a replica. One minute, Shurma. Sourma, please, a line, a minute. His name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u88	Igor Shurma, faction of the united Social Democrats. I would like to bring to the attention of all the national deputies and those who listen to us on the air today. The incident that took place at the eighth precinct, mentioned by John the Rabbit. About three o’clock in the morning, national deputies Shurm, Pisarczuk, and Shepetin arrived at the district. At the door of the station, which was closed, was Roman Immortal. We spent 15 minutes slamming in the doorway to get us to the precinct. After 15 minutes, the silencers opened the door and we walked in -- and we saw that there was John the Rabbit and eight national deputies from "Our Ukraine" surrounded by about 20 militiamen. There's a question: why was there a silence, we didn't get the door open? After all these events ended, John the Rabbit thanked the district commission for the work, and we all parted. And those people of questionable appearances who were, somehow none of us were affected except for the tongue crack. And I would ask people to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, please take the Rules you have, read them. And it says that replicas cannot be exchanged indefinitely. Everyone has a right to a replica once. Since John the Rabbit, asking questions, called the name Shurma, Shurma is entitled to a replica. He used it. So please don't get excited. I give the floor to the Head of Security Igor Petrovich Smilek. [[B in m in s a l in]] 5 minutes for information and 10 minutes for question. Yes, please, Igor Petrovich, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ukrainian Security Service, like all of you, shares concerns about the events that took place in Zakartat in recent days. What has happened certainly does not contribute to the positive image of our nation, creating conditions for the escalation of social tension, including the threat to Ukraine’s national security. [[Applause]] This was the reason why the Security Service came out, examining the latest developments in Mukachevo. Although your response to the facts you know may not always be within the scope of the Ukrainian Security Service’s legislative jurisdiction. Yesterday at the evening meeting, my deputy informed you about the legal aspects and limitations of the Security Service in a situation similar to that of the Security Service. That's why I won't stop. I would like to stress once again that the Ukrainian Security Service is primarily a security service, primarily intelligence and counterintelligence. Its law - enforcement function is severely limited to the fight against organized crime, terrorism, smuggling, and corruption. In a civilized society, that's the way it's supposed to be. A special service should not interfere with politics, replace law enforcement authorities that have the right to do so. Regrettably, the answers to yesterday’s questions could not have been comprehensive, since a thorough and objective assessment of events would obviously require no time. Despite the fact that most of Mukachevo's alleged offences are subject to investigation by the prosecutor's office and internal affairs, I was ordered yesterday to send a special commission of the Central Authority of the BSS to the head of the Department for the Protection of Nationality and the Fight against Terrorism. I assure you that as a result of this commission's work, I will make the appropriate decisions, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be informed in an orderly manner. The information from the site is still coming. And I'm going to try on the basis of the latest data to answer those questions that were of particular interest yesterday. First of all, did the Security Service have information about possible wrongdoing? So small, what the internal affairs authorities reported three times on April 7 and April 15 twice. [[Applause]] In anticipation of the content of the information and why the service did not respond to operational signals, I should say that it was only done, and I would like to draw attention to this to the honourable national MPs, solely to the use of public order measures, for which there are no relevant powers in the BSC. With this in mind, we have directed internal affairs authorities to take additional measures aimed at ensuring public order and requested feedback from issues that are not covered by the Security Service's authority. Regarding the security of the MPs who were in Mukachevo during the election. To date, I do not know that national MPs are making similar requests, as is unknown, and the circumstances that, according to valid legislation, gave rise to the involvement of a special anti-terrorist unit of the BAF. If this information is provided to you, I can assure you that each case will be properly checked with further information on the consequences and the measures taken. At the same time, I would like you, honourable deputies, to inform us that the threats to the life of the Ukrainian national MP are perceived as a threat to Ukraine's national security. The President of Ukraine has personally assigned the Ukrainian Security Service to scrutinise all allegations of misconduct against Ukrainian national deputies during their stay in Mukachevo, and to take appropriate measures to be taken by valid legislation when they are confirmed. The Security Service is already working on yesterday's appeal to the Zakartat District Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u92	Right now, the Security Service is working on yesterday's request by the Zacarpathian district prosecutor to verify the information on illegal actions against the Ukrainian national MP Roman Immortal. We'll inform the prosecution and the Supreme Council about the results of the investigation. And finally, about the service tracking of those political processes that are taking place in society and informing the nation's leadership about the negative trends in the political environment. That question occurred yesterday, and I feel it is my responsibility to answer it. I would like to assure you that in cases defined by law, the Security Service will regularly inform the higher government authorities of matters relating to its competence. However, the BSS is not a tool of total monitoring and cannot be used to influence the course or consequences of political processes. We are not going to stand outside, but we must act according to the law. To conclude, I would like to assure you once again, honourable national deputies, that every appeal you make will be carefully checked with appropriate response measures. Of course, this will take some time. And I would like to take into account that the issues that we're considering right now are not simple, and they need a particularly thorough and thorough analysis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u93	Thank you, Igor Petrovich. Please sign up for the question. Please, 10 minutes. Light up on the monitor. Wheelman, get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u94	I give the floor to the people's representative of Bandruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u95	Please, it's Bandurka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u96	Please tell me, was the conduct of the people’s deputies themselves, in your opinion, always tolerant and adequate of the law during their stay in Mukachevo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. I would not like to comment on the conduct of honourable national MPs, who themselves should show an example of tolerance and compliance with the current legislation of Ukraine. We will never be able to build democracy in a violent way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u98	Please, Turkov, get ready for Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u99	Dear reporter, first question. Aren't you ashamed of your subordinates who stopped the car with Evening News and others and checked it out, answered questions of national security or not? It's embarrassing for you and your subjects when you're not just listening to people's talk, but then you're putting it on the Internet, and you're still censoring. That's the first question. The other one. In addition to the national deputies in Mukachevo, there were many representatives of the OSCE and other international organizations. Under international agreements, you are obliged to ensure their security, the obligation of anti-terrorist groups to deal fully with issues and security, and any other violations against these people. You didn't do it. And your hiding under the obligation of the police to do so does not withstand any criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u100	This is not a question, but a political statement with signs of a rhetorical question. So with great respect to your status, I will not comment. As for my subjects, I am proud of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u101	Please, Ivanov. Prepare Lukashuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u102	Dear Igor Petrovich, after all the events that we are having here today, we are having such a heated debate. Don't you think, and the question is, how do we feel about a specialist in Ukraine who needs to pass a law on extremism?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. This is solely the prerogative of the honorable Supreme Council. If a draft of such a law is prepared, the Security Service will professionally process and comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u104	Please, National Deputy Lukashuk. Prepare the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u105	Give the word to the Hare. Volodymyr the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u106	Please, the Volodymyr Hare microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u107	Dear reporter, I wouldn't like to make any grades right now, because it's not time, we're only hearing information. I'd like to ask. Because again this information did not fit into the report that the lead reporter was making. Tell me, do you know anything about those gangs, those criminal groups that were drawn to Mukachev from all over Ukraine, Lviv, ‘ Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovska, who were in groups supporting individual national deputies. That is what Zinchenko received. And what political powers did they serve? First question. And the second. Please tell us if you know anything about the place of residence and the state of health of the head of the territorial election committee of the city of Mukachev, who provided for the election and also the fate of the colonel and his state of health, which was broken in the fight against the national deputies of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u108	Thank you for asking. You are well aware that according to the Constitutional Court’s decision, operational information, which is the property of the investigation, cannot be published until the investigation is completed. Regarding the criminal groups that might have been involved in Mukachevo. The Security Service has some information that both of the two main candidates had support groups, and the leaders of these support groups, in other words, had a bearing on certain groups in a certain direction. But both, I repeat, both the main candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u109	Please, King, prepare Tereshku.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u110	I'd like to give Peter a word of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u111	Peter Poshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Igor Petrovich, I have a few questions with your permission. Do you know that on April 19th, when it became known that the chairman of the Supreme Council, Deputy Head Zinchenko with the deputies, was headed by the head of the Rizak government, an urgent meeting was held to address the issue of the destruction of ballot papers. The meeting was attended by Rizak, Quartzaba, Rusin, Robotics, Cubirko, and others. An order was made for Dernov to take down the positions of the police who were guarding the ballots. The other one. Do you know, I have a telephone call from the head of the city security department called Valeriy Mikhajlovich, who, during the election, was deliberately disconnected, regardless of the warning he gave about a permanent connection. Third. Or was it because it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u113	Please respond, Igor Petrovich. Sorry, time, and not necessarily 10 questions. Two questions, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking. In accordance with the President's latest decree regarding the work of security officers in public authorities. You know very well that the Security Service does not trace inside government authorities information, including inside the country. But, Sir Peter Alexiyovich, if you have such information, you must warn you that you are obliged to provide it in writing to the Ukrainian Security Service. If such information about the criminal intentions that you possess is not transmitted to the Security Service or other law enforcement agencies, you yourself are subject to criminal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u115	Please, Tereshuk. Get ready for Sunshine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u116	Dear Igor Petrovich! So it happened in our country that. It happened very often.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u117	Sergei Mikhailovich, please wait. Dear colleagues, take the blue book, which is called the Supreme Council's Regulation, and read that the speaker or the person who gives the information, without being a member of Parliament, has no reply. You turned, you were given an answer. Please, it's Tereshuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u118	Dear Igor Petrovich, in our country it has become so traditional that the Security Service has a special attitude, and often citizens appeal, perhaps as to the last instance, to solve those problems that you may not sometimes have to solve. But that is what happened. Please tell me, is there sufficient legislative provision today for you to perform the functions that people are calling on you to protect the process of democratization?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u119	Thank you very much for your question. In general, the Security Service's legislative system is now allowing the Security Service to provide the national interests of our state, but the material security of the average security officer, I can take the opportunity to say that 70 percent are coworkers who are under 12 years of age with benefits. Unfortunately, today does not allow the Security Service to fully secure its financial and financial activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u120	Please, sonny. After him, Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u121	National MP Sinchenko, Communist faction. Dear Igor Petrovich, you have agreed today that you have informed us three times and have confirmed that you have informed the internal affairs authorities three times on issues related to the violation of public order in the city of Mukavo. And then they said, "It's not our business, it's the police's business." I will say that the events there are unfolding in such a way that they have already gone beyond not only Ukraine, but they have gone beyond even Europe. So, please tell me, isn't it a contradiction when you're giving instructions on a telegram to General Kravchenk, who's been giving information that he's going to be there in Kiev with a meeting held by Yushchenko, and that you're saying that "it's not our question, that it's the militia, that it's just some hooliganic action by some criminal element"?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u122	Most of all, I'd like the honourable national MPs to understand that the Security Service is evaluating the police in recent events. We've reported three times in the working order, sending operational information, in order to communicate with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This is operational information. The Security Service has no authority to intervene in the protection of public order in the processes that took place there. Anything else can be solved only by the work of a special commission, which includes its staff of the Security Service Inspectorate, who have the authority to evaluate the actions of all, without exception, including those of the Ukrainian Security Service. But to do that, you have to let her work quietly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u123	Please, Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u124	Please tell Dusty to finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u125	Please, the powder mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear Igor Petrovich, I proceed. A statement about the commission of a crime that I have committed now during my questioning does not necessarily have to be made in writing. I'm asking you to consider my application as a crime claim with the proper response of the Security Service. Let's keep going. The task of the Security Service is to protect the constitutional system and ensure the safety of public officials. A national MP refers to a public official, and during the election, we had about 70 national deputies. Whether there was a plan to protect state officials, and do you know that for five hours after 8 p.m. Mukachevo was under the control of criminal groups, and these criminal groups have attempted the lives and health of the national MPs, who have ensured transparency in the electoral process. What will be your response?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. Statements made in the session room have already been accepted, consider the introduction of the Security Service. Regarding the protection of national MPs. The Security Service is unable to trace the plans and intentions of the movement of national deputies. The use of the Security Service to combat terrorism and the protection of members of criminal justice is determined by the relevant law of Ukraine. According to article 7 of the Law on the Protection of State Authorities and Officials of Ukraine, public protection in the event of a threat to life or health can indeed be exercised with regard to national deputies. However, according to the same valid law, the President of Ukraine takes a decision on the appropriateness of the national protection of national MPs for the appointment of officials authorized to speak on behalf of the relevant authorities of the State, or for the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. This is a law passed by the Supreme Council. In addition, current legislation allows security measures regarding Ukrainian national deputies to be applied on the basis of the grounds set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Safety of Persons taking part in Criminal Justice, which requires a specific investigation into a particular criminal case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u128	Thank you, Igor Petrovich, please sit down. The General Prosecutor of Ukraine, Hennaday Andriyovich Vasiliev, has the floor for information. Also stated: 5 minutes of information, 10 minutes of answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u129	Deputies! All in attendance! You have heard information from the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the minister of the interior, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the events surrounding the holding of elections in Mukachev. Taking into account the authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out supervisory functions in respect of the rule of law in determining claims and reports of crimes, the existence of a court decision in which the findings relating to the electoral process are drawn, I consider it necessary to report the following. During and after the elections, only 16 applications were received to the prosecution, the police, and the court. As a condition, they can be divided into two groups: allegations of a violation of the procedure during the electoral process and allegations of a violation of public order and security. I would like to put a stop to the statements that came directly during the elections. All of these are related to the cause of bodily harm to citizens and public order violations. In particular, on April 18, with medical assistance, a citizen approached the torturer’s central district hospital, reporting his beating at the polling station number 8 by unknown people with hooligan motives, causing him to fall down the stairs and suffer bodily harm. This incident was reported by a doctor at the Martyr’s Reilikarna, another torturer’s city police department. The polling station number 8 in the polling exercise between the Ukrainian national deputy, Jódzik, had a dispute with the Head of the electoral committee during which one ballot was broken and several were damaged. As a result, the voter polling process was halted. Unknown individuals at the polling station number eight were subjected to hooliganism, during which property was damaged and physical force was applied in relation to the Ukrainian national deputy Polishchuk. These two cases were reported by police officers. The allegations of abuse, falsification, and other violations of electoral legislation, both by law enforcement authorities and by the territorial and local electoral committees on April 18. Immediately after the election, a candidate for the post of the City Head of Swirid asked to declare the election invalid because of gross violations of electoral legislation by another participant in the Nuser electoral process. The March 19th decision of the Mukatov People's Republic noted that there were no legislative violations during the elections. At the same time, reports have been received that there are protocols on the hands of the Ukrainian national deputies that indicate that most of the votes have been cast by a candidate for the post of Mayor of Balogya. In addition, on April 20, a statement was made by Ukrainian national deputies Philenck and Ivanch about the falsification of the elections. The application states that it is ready to provide copies of the minutes of the electoral committees. At present, despite the efforts of the prosecution authorities to obtain such protocols, we are not officially granted them. The possible contradictions between the vote in the official protocols and those mentioned in the reports of the national MPs were sought by the officials of the Ukrainian Attorney General’s Office during their visit to Mukachevo, but unfortunately these attempts were futile. In providing us with the records of the district and territorial commissions, we will take steps to break the criminal case and to establish objective circumstances. The Zacarpathian Police Department has received 7 allegations that have resulted in four criminal cases of bullying and bodily harm, including the Ukrainian People’s Deputy. On the other hand, a criminal case was committed in connection with the beating of police officers, the kidnapping of a police license, and two video cameras. The criminal case in question is the introduction of the Zakartat district’s procurator’s office. The Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zakartat region of Zakarpatsk on 20 April also filed a criminal case based on the fact of bullying while entering the premises of the territorial commission and the use of violence against the guard. The case is currently being investigated, and steps are being taken to determine the circumstances of the case. Yesterday evening, a review of the location of the event was carried out to establish the absence of 4,536 ballot papers and any election protocols that could be considered stolen. According to this fact, the Zacarpathian Bureau of Investigation has today been charged with the crime of kidnapping of particularly important documents and actions that have caused it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u131	All possible steps are taken by the law enforcement authorities to establish the perpetrators. All criminal cases and allegations against which decisions have not been taken by the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. The trial will be conducted fully, objectively, and comprehensively in accordance with existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u132	Thank you, Hennady Andriyovich. Dear colleagues, I understand your good attitude to continue, but don't forget that we're continuing at the expense of your time. Because then there will be less time to discuss. So keep that in mind. Please, 10 minutes to ask. Let's sign up. Please, on the monitor. Please, Seminoga. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u133	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Onopenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u134	Please, it's Onopenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u135	Thank you. Gennady Andriyovich, I know that there are certain terms for a criminal offence based on the facts found in Mukachevo. And we had a good impression that the prosecutor himself had acted. By the time our working group was in Mukachevo, however, no criminal case had yet been solved. I don't think you have to wait here for 10 days, as it's supposed to be a criminal case, but you can just do it right now. And the next. You referred to the court's decision on the case and one of the candidates. I should point out that the court ruled on the same day that the complaint was filed, even though five days were anticipated, and without a decision by the commission. I didn't even consider it or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u136	I see. As far as criminal misconduct is concerned. Yeah, you're right. If all is found, there are signs of crime, not waiting, but immediately violating a criminal case. That's what we do. With regard to the scene and the records stolen, the ballots stolen, we immediately violated the criminal case. With regard to the judgment of the court. I can't give him an estimate. We have repeatedly asked in this room the question of making changes to existing legislation so that decisions on such issues can be challenged. The decision made today is final. It's not order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u137	Please, Baranowski. Get ready for Grimri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u138	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, no crime has been solved, this Seminouk beating has now been beaten by Polishchuk. I'm sure he won't be exposed. Please tell me, all these crimes that happen without the involvement of the police are not being investigated by the prosecution itself. In the Gitomir region two months later, two U.S.O.D. chiefs of the area changed, and three quarters of them changed the heads of the district militia raids. At the same time, they are all formed by proximity to one of the political forces, namely the SDPU(o). Can't you see that the power structures have taken over one of the political parties? And how can this end? In the same Zitomir today, the prosecutor's office, which has not been elected to the city of Zitomir for two years, the prosecutor's office has given an answer that works within the city council, within the law, and there is no response.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u139	Dear Alexander Petrovich, I would like to begin with the last question regarding the intervention of the prosecutor in the electoral process. It's forbidden. The prosecutor can't ask questions about conduct, non-execution, it's a court order to deal with these issues. Another question about law enforcement is, Is there no order? Yes, unfortunately, there are many problems in law enforcement today. With regard to both the Public Prosecutor's Office and other law enforcement agencies, we are very strict in asking questions, even in drawing criminal responsibility. I'll say that I find both support and understanding and the minister of the interior. This is the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u140	Please, National Deputy Gmir, prepare the Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u141	Adam Ivanovich, be kind. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u142	Turn on the Buiko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u143	Buiko, Communist faction, Donetsk region. Gennady Andreevich, I would like to ask you a question with your comment on the intervention and removal of any law enforcement action, in particular in the elections to the City Council of Mariupol, the candidate for the City Council of Fomenko Aleksandr Grigoryevich was captured by a group of unknowns, thrown a bag at him, drove him around the city, thrown him over the line, and demanded that the only one be removed from the city council election. The BSB stated that it was not their question, but that the police, among other things, had accused him of drunkenness, although the person did not accept alcohol at all. I address him as an official request to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u144	Yuri Vladimirović, I am not aware of these circumstances. I've noticed, and I'm gonna have to go back and see what happened in Mariupola right now. But these are obviously old facts, aren't they? Okay. I didn't get the facts, that kind of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u145	Please, National Deputy Suprun, prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u146	Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, we know very well that the function of the prosecution is a general oversight. But please tell me, as evidenced by the Minister of Internal Affairs, the representative of the parliamentary commission, there were video recordings of what was happening there. Is it not possible to identify the individuals of these people who took part in the fighting, who used what methods of fighting? Because these videos, they're going to put everything in place right now, and it's going to be clear who's right and who's to blame. Can the Public Prosecutor's Office make sure that these records don't go missing, that they're still in charge to carry out general surveillance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u147	Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, regarding video recordings, is not what the prosecution can or cannot do — she is obliged to examine all the circumstances and videos. Now there's our employee, Mukachevo, a staff member of the Attorney General's Office, who's got a job to do, and as far as the records are concerned, these materials will be investigated, all the materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u148	Please, National Deputy Cranville, prepare the Bandours.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u149	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Pavlunka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u150	Yuri Pavlovenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u151	Yuri Pavlenko, Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Attorney General! The first thing I want to focus on is giving you information about the commission of a crime. Now Mukachevo is under intense pressure on the members of the district commission and the heads of the district commission to give up their signatures on the protocols they posted on April 18-19. So I'm asking you to respond immediately, and those protocols that remain on the territorial commission, remove them in order to save lives and people and save documents. And open an immediate criminal case. Please let me know in a three-day period of action. Besides, you're not giving me a replica, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say in five seconds that the minister of the interior lied because he organized all the shares, and he knew that these shares were happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u152	First of all, with regard to the protocols of the electoral committees. I'd like all of these protocols to be given to us, that is, to the tracking organs, all of those that are in your hands. As for others, we all ask these questions. I've already told you how we did a survey of the scene that we found that we couldn't find. We're investigating a criminal case right now. But what is in your hands now, I ask you, pass on to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u153	Ivan Alexanderovich! Listen to the Attorney General. But, you see, you promised us to spread all the protocols -- so far, three just protocols. Make sure you don't lose them, give them up for safekeeping. Please, National Deputy Bandurka. Prepare Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u154	The Honourable Hennaday Andriyovich, the day before the elections in Mukachevo, was deployed to the city by an entire 76 - national deputy. Was there a need, from your legal point of view, for such support or intervention in the election of the city’s head? Is it adequate and necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u155	Of course, when it comes to national MPs, they determine where and where to participate. But the important thing is that everyone obeys the law, whether it's a national MP, or a city council, or an ordinary person. The law is one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u156	Please, Sobolev. He's behind him, Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u157	Gennady Vasilovich, I'm surprised by the logic of the prosecutor, who knows that the city has been accompanied by 40-50 militiamen who beat the polls, beating even militiamen who weren't afraid to stand on the watch of the law, regardless of what their leadership sold them and betrayed them. Moreover, yesterday a temporary commission of inquiry led by Zinchenko identified and removed a number of citizens' claims of beatings, of what violations they were. A soldier named Medvedchuka entered the territory where the commission worked and removed all the materials they had removed along with the fighters. And the last. Why don't you take these protocols as it is and need a territorial election commission? Ivancho's been trying to pass these protocols to the D.A.'s office from the very morning. Have him accept it and hand over copies of Ivancho's protocols. I'm surprised at the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u158	As far as the fighters and others are concerned, let us wait and see if we can find out. One thing I want to say is that in these two days a huge amount of work has been done, a lot of information. We need to examine, examine, and make the right decision. As far as the protocols are concerned. I want to say it again. We know what to do, where to delete and what to delete. But what you have on your hands, please give us the protocols again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u159	Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear Gennady Andriyovich, please tell us whether the facts of the attack on militia personnel and that the Colonel of the Police were seriously injured, including broken wrists and ribs. It is also known that at two o’clock in the morning an attack was carried out on the head of the territorial electoral commission in his home home, and that he is in a heart attack at the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u161	I have already said in my report about the beating of police officers, a criminal case has been committed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u162	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich, please sit down. Time runs undetectable. Please provide information from Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, Commissioner for Human Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Five minutes -- information, five minutes -- answers to questions, and then we'll consult. Please, Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! All in attendance, Your Honor! I realize that, of course, the rules for human rights and human rights are basically halved. But we're going to hope that maybe you'll give me two or three more minutes to make the speech and to keep you informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u164	Nina Ivanovna, please follow the rules given to you. You're given just as much as any reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u165	Dear National Deputies! A human rights officer is monitoring the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens on a continuous basis, and I must point out that the Authorized Institution does not intervene in the political struggle on the part of any other candidate or political force. The principle position of the Ombudsman is that the right to free will is one of the most important political rights of Ukrainian citizens, guaranteed by our Constitution, and the provision of honest, open and transparent elections is an essential sign of a civilized and democratic state. As early as June 29, 2003, in the election of the city’s head, Mukachevo, the Human Rights Commissioner, personally exercised parliamentary control over the implementation of the right on. the election of Mukachevo. It was then that, despite the various obstacles, the right of torturers to be freely declared in accordance with the 71st article of the Constitution and the elections took place. Mr. Petovka was chosen on absolutely legal grounds. Or some political forces didn't like it, and they were trying to take a political rematch all this time. That's why we're discussing this with you today because we failed to maintain peace in Mukachevo after the June 29th election. You know, what was adopted on December 25th was the President's decree on measures to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens and to normalize the vitality of the city of Mukachevo of Zakarpat. One of the factors is the artificial increase in social tension and the exacerbation of the social and legal and political situation in Mukachevo, and it was the President's Order, which was actually about direct presidential rule. As authorized by human rights, in carrying out my constitutional duty and in keeping with the oath I took here twice in this room, I had to appeal to the honourable President of the State, who offered to stop, to suspend the operation of my Order to take a decision before the Constitutional Court. The same reference was made to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. However, the Constitutional Court has not yet considered the application of a human rights authority. For over a year and a half, he hasn't considered my request for 18,000 citizens of our nation to return their savings. You know, this decision finally happened. This is exactly the kind of MPs who have to influence the position of the Constitutional Court because of legislative changes. I demand that legislative changes be made that all the submission of an ombudsman of Ukraine, which, of course, affects human rights and freedoms, the Constitutional Court considered only in the first order. That's the first one. Yesterday, the President, as we know, revoked his decree. But, as we can see today, the warnings of a human rights officer about Mukachevo’s developments after his adoption were not unfounded. During the monitoring, the exercise of the electoral rights of citizens in Mukachevo in April 2004 and the Secretariat’s staff personally visited the vast majority of 36 constituencies, met with members of the electoral commissions, with candidates, with representatives of local political parties, eleven, by the way, representatives of the media, international organizations, law enforcement officers, and voters. I'm going to give you just one statement from a man, a senior Sivachev, who told me during the election races in Mukachevo at 11: 00 a.m. "What's your prognosis," I asked him. He said, "Nino Ivanovna, my prognosis is one that will defeat Balog directly. But they're going to announce the other head of the council." That's why. I think I'll have 10 minutes for your answers. I'll give you a detailed answer to your interesting questions. So, honourable national MPs, I want to say that the human rights officer has been directly present both by himself and by my representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u166	Please make a deal on your performances. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday morning I had a meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where I informed Mr. Vladimir Mikhajlovich in detail about the events that took place around the elections in Mukachevo in dynamics, not just the day of the vote, but in all the dynamics in which he was directly involved, the respect of the electoral constitutional rights of citizens living in Mukachevo. In the afternoon, we were asked to meet with the President of the State, where I was present as a human rights officer, as well as Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, and a group of national deputies who were directly watching the elections in Mukachevo. I want to say that, according to the President himself, the distinguished Leonid Danilovich, he was unilaterally informed of the events that took place during the elections in Mukachevo. And at least after this meeting, there is an agreement that the President will personally control this process as a guarantor of human rights and freedoms together, of course, both with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and with the Authorized Human Rights, and with the strong structures he is subject to. I very much hope that the power structures that are present here will draw some conclusions from these issues that have already been given by the deputies today, but some things I cannot help but say today and not notice in this room. My representatives, who directly worked with the commission headed by the distinguished Alexander Zinchenko, discovered some of the circumstances surrounding the kidnapping of election documents in Mukachevo City.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u168	Nina Ivanovna, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u169	Then the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u170	Please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Let me explain. Please, Cranwell, prepare Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u171	Dear Nina Ivanovna, do you not think that Mukachevo, as a result of these election combinations, has become an area where the notion of human rights, not only social rights, but also the right to normal human survival, is completely eliminated? First. And the second. Do you think that you have to communicate with law enforcement organizations around the world, or that the events that have taken place in Mukachev now will not have a fatal impact on the image of the Ukrainian State as a state that at least wants to be democratic?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u172	Thank you for asking. I want to say that unfortunately, if you follow certain allegories, today not only Mukachevo has turned into Palermo, today the whole of Ukraine, where the election races are taking place, has turned into a total Palermo. [[Applause]] That's the first one. The second is that it touches the international image of Ukraine. Of course, it's not just broken, it's blown up. And those efforts that were made, by the way, by the people's deputies and representatives of non-governmental law enforcement organizations, and the Human Rights Commissioner today are, as they say, put at great risk. I think that on April 26, the Council of Europe will address this issue in an open regime, and representatives of all political forces can participate in this discussion. But you know that at District Three, where the academics, the National Deputy of Ukraine Polishchuk, were insolently beaten, and my advisor Usatov Dmitry Alexanderovich was directly involved, where they actually reflected from criminal groups and protected the lives of the women and men who were members of the election committee, they were at risk. So it seems to me that those representatives of the OSCE who were directly involved in the calculation of the votes in District Three will, unfortunately, not in favour of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u173	Please, Vaszczuk. Get ready, Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u174	Dear Nina Ivanovna, your information is on alert. And whatever action the Supreme Council of Ukraine is going to take, you're the main human rights defender for the elections that will take place on October 31st. have been held with dignity and that Ukraine should not be present in international institutions, but indeed elections would be democratic? What would you think you should change in legislation or in other authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u175	Thank you, Catherine Timothy, for asking. First of all, I believe that the national electorate must show solidarity, whichever political power they may be. Then. When national MPs are beaten, when the health and life of the nationals are at stake, there is nothing to expect in our nation. First of all, it's your parliamentary solidarity to strengthen the foundations of state parliamentaryism. That's the first one. Second, to amend the legislation that has already been voted on in this room. When all of you, honourable national MPs or some part, have actually thrown out the constituencies of the election race, first of all, I mean the non-governmental organizations that are supposed to help you and cover, really, objectively, honestly our entire state, and to make the elections really transparent and honest. There's no other way. 450 deputies, Your Honor Catherine Timofievna, won't cover, believe me, the whole state during the presidential race.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u176	Please, Red, get Suprun ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u177	Before you ask questions. Just after the call of a member of Mr. Stretovic's parliamentary commission, the airport shuts down so as not to accept under any circumstances the MPs who want to fly to Mukachevo today. Nino Ivanovno, were you a direct witness, ready to testify before the international community? You've seen the night beatings of the Berkuts and the Immortal Clumsy who broke the arm of a 150-pound Colonel OMON. It's already for a mental hospital. And the last question is, do you know about criminal cases involving the falsification of elections in Mukachev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u178	Thank you for asking. First of all, that's what I'm doing right now in front of you, honourable national MPs, and I'm testifying to the position of Commissioner, who was made in accordance with the law and the Constitution. This is the first time. And at any level, I'm ready to confirm my testimony and my colleagues' testimony. This is the first time. Secondly, repeat your question, please, the second part, Mr. Eugene. Criminal cases. I thank the President of Ukraine yesterday for understanding when we broke the question of necessity with the deputies, really, objectively looking into these events, which have become the very force behind the structure that is going to take care of it. On the one hand, it's the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and on the other hand, it's a structure that has all the powers to control the rights of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And I hope that the honourable Attorney General who came out of this room will do everything in his power to make such an investigation fair and transparent. I'm sure it's simple. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u179	Please, Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u180	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Nina Ivanovna, would you please say that the adoption of additions to laws that define criminal responsibility for violating the electoral rights of citizens, such as the introduction of a maximum term of imprisonment, deprivation of liberty, otherwise, would be a safeguard in order to enforce the law instead of carrying out illegal commands?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u181	Thank you for asking. Mrs. Ludmila, I would like to say in the 2001 Criminal Code, which has become effective, as you know, on September 1st, you have introduced a special chapter five: "Crime against electoral, labour and other personal rights, human and civil rights." There are three articles: for obstructing the exercise of voting rights, for improper use of ballot papers, for the floor of election documents, or for miscalculation of votes, or for misdeclaration of election results, and for violating the voting secret. Sadly, however, since September 1, 2001, these standards have never been applied today in the Criminal Code. So it's a question of law enforcement. First of all, it is a matter for law enforcement authorities and judges who exercise direct justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u182	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, in this way, you and I have completely exhausted the rules and even moved on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u183	By showing a kind of leniency to the reporters and giving them the opportunity to speak as much as they wanted, they took up the time that we had discussed with you. So let's do it this way. We're going to call it a break. During the break, I ask you to prepare the film we agreed on. Let's go over the film and then let the factions perform. And he'll make decisions. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, we'll continue our sessions. Yeah, so far as we agreed, let's see. The movie wants a national MP. Please, is the movie ready? Please. Please, the cook will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u185	Dear National Deputies! I'm going to comment very briefly on the footage that you're going to see. There are clearly two trends. That's what matters now. There are two clear trends here that elections took place in an atmosphere of fear, but that the voters took advantage of their rights and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u186	Roman Mikhailovich, it's probably the same sound. Colleagues! As you can see, it's a good thing we have this system. Sometimes it helps us technically. As we began our consideration of the matter, we agreed that we would take two hours to consider it. Sadly, we were not involved at this time. The factions are insisting on the performances, so let's do it this way. We'll take 30 minutes to discuss, giving everyone the factions who will come out of factions. If we save time, there will also be those national MPs who will arrive, who will be registered. A total of 33 national deputies were enrolled. After half an hour of discussion, we'll see what proposals we're making here, what decisions we're going to make. So let's start talking about the question. From "Our Ukraine" is the word of Yuri Kostenko. Get ready for Bandurca. Please, Yuri Ivanovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! I want to talk about what happened at the polling station number one on Sunday, April 18th, in the election of the city head of Mukachevo, where I served as an observer. During the day, a fairly democratic vote took place in general. At 8:00, according to the law, only the members of the commission, the law enforcement officers, the 20 men, and the observers remained at the station. All the doors were closed and the counting of votes began. It lasted about two hours. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ It's a faction performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the faction leaders, the employees of the Apparatus, and I have an announcement on my monitor that Kostenko is speaking from the faction. Please get out of the way and show me. Please contact the Secretariat to find out. I am guided by what the Secretariat has given me. You could be 121. Come on. And you're in the Secretariat, Victor Andryovich, take care of yourself. Please. Yes, well-respected colleagues, well-respected colleagues. Dear colleagues, please turn on your monitors. On the monitors there is a serial number, and against each of the faction’s last names, it is written that from the faction. Yes, please, Bandurka. Please, Bandur from Democratic Initiatives. You go, get your ass down to the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u189	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Each time local events take place, they are then considered in Parliament by a number of committees and various evaluations. And first of all, I see this because it's not settled in a legal way for a whole series of circumstances that are trying to use the political forces for their purposes. I'd like to draw you to the fact that we've discussed the Act of Protection three times, which is very, so to speak, actively by this law, where two of them went, contradicted our colleagues in the House of Deputies. It was in this bill that the rights and duties, we will speak, the protective structures, were very detailed. Out of all politics, out of all sorts, we'll talk. political influence, party or subjective, means that this law has not been passed. We have to go back to him. Just as the Law on Peace Congregations, Meetings, Excursions, Citizens’ Demonstration is needed. The Constitution, the direct act of the law, allows it to do so. But how can we do so? Who is responsible for this? Organizers, what role, competence, rights, and authority do they play? It's nowhere. And then everything is done according to instructions, orders, whether it's the Ministry of Internal Affairs, local authorities, or local government. Finally, the law on public organizations. He needs work. Today, political forces, when they do not have a common language or are unable to achieve their goals, are only going to blame the militiaman. It's easier to do everything. It's hard for the police to work there, and it's easy to criticize. Don't yell, it's your level of screaming, you know? Don't yell, it doesn't work on me. So we need, first of all, to look at these bill committees in order to bring them into line. The law on internal affairs is fundamental in order to protect internal affairs from political pressure, from unlawful interference, from the will of the political forces. And I invite MPs, I'm working on these bills, with whoever wants to bring the state down, let's deal with these issues in a proper legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're clear. Here's my document. Anyone who has the right to fill an authorized representative of the faction. An authorized representative of the Kostenak faction to the Secretariat is written. Please give Kostenka a number like this, about the events in Mukachevo, a performance by the faction "Our Ukraine." And that's why I'm asking you to look into "Our Ukraine," who's going to be speaking from the faction. And they will. Please, a Turk from BUT. Get ready for Shufrych.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u191	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Today, Ukraine faces a choice of where to go -- democracy or dictatorship, freedom or terror? And what happened in Mukachevo was no accident. These events began in Sumas, in Rome, in other cities where the interests of our citizens were ignored, where an attempt was made to overturn their expectations of honest authority, their expectations for the bright future of Ukraine. There's also an attempt today to reverse our citizens' ability to choose who they want to vote for, to choose who they want to see, either in representative authorities, or in parliament, or who they want to see in the presidency. Today in Mukachevo, we see a scenario that we want to propose before the presidential election. These elements, which consist of a scenario, are, of course, the first, the complete link between criminality and the police. Today, police and crime are working together, beating up, beating up citizens, beating up national MPs. They're dealing with pogroms, kidnapping ballots, and so on. And I would like to address the Minister of Internal Affairs: return the ballots that your subordinates stole! Don't embarrass your pursuits, don't embarrass the Ministry of Internal Affairs! Next, my dear colleagues, second moment: this is the Ukrainian Security Service, which is solely involved in monitoring political opponents of the regime, preparing provocations, informing the authorities of what the opposition is doing. The third element is the full pocket of the court, the Mukachevo example: they haven't been able to falsify the protocols yet, and the court is already deciding that the elections have taken place legally. The fourth element is a fully corrupt and controlled electoral commission: in Mukachevo is a territorial electoral commission that makes decisions regardless. [[When the presidential election is held, its role will be played by the Central Election Commission.]] As the citizens have voted. The fifth element is a completely controlled, cynical, lying media that creates in citizens a virtual reality that lies, promotes and compromises opponents of power. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to draw attention to the last element of this scheme, are the local administrations and the President's administration, who are the main coordinators of the crime. Because I don’t have time, I immediately move on to the suggestions. Our faction, the bloc of Julia Timoshenko, proposes: first to vote in favour of the Minister of Interior of Bilokon, second to vote in favour of the leadership of President Viktor Medvedchuk, third to vote in favour of the leader of the local administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u192	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Yes, please, from the faction of the Social Democratic Shufrich, and from the faction of the People's Choice, Happochka gives him three minutes. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u193	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! To consider the events of April 18, 2004, in Mukachevo, I think it is necessary to mention the circumstances in which the previous elections were held and what took place just before the April 18 elections. I want to remind you that after the previous election, the situation was the same, but vice versa, but for some reason it did not cause such a reaction to important inspections and representations. So I have reason to believe that this is purely about pear action in support of only one political power, namely our Ukraine. We needed a scandal the day before the presidential election, and we got it. The refusal of Balogah to travel shows that he deliberately violated the election law by provoking his removal. Even in the declaration, he demonstrated false information. Three court decisions gave grounds for the removal of Balogah, but the TVC did not take them into account. I want to report that on April 15 and 17, negotiations are under way on the withdrawal of Baloga and Nuser's candidacy in order to avoid exacerbation of opposition and conflict. It is likely that Landiol would have won the first Balogah deputy in the past. But after Baloga's statement that he couldn't form the mandate of the people's deputy and was willing to withdraw his candidacy, Baloga confirmed that, he said that Yushchenko was absolutely against it. Against it, we realized that we needed to have a provocative scandal in the first place. The arrival of representatives from UNA-UNSO and other extremely right-wing organizations is a confirmation. The pressure of these young people and about 70 national deputies before the elections and the election day was incredible. But with the exception of two or three incidents, the vote went well. Within 4 hours of 30 minutes, there were no incidents, but after the election results were announced, action began that was no different from the one directed by provocation. I am sorry that my colleagues, who are to blame for this must be found and punished during the incident in the city. But, honourable MPs, no one gave us the right to break hands with the militia and beat them. Interestingly, the victims did not write a statement immediately after the attack but first visited the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council and then turned to the leadership of the IMF. I can't help but remember the arrival of a working group led by Zinchenko. When he arrived after 18 hours, he demanded to meet a number of officials who were provided. About 7: 30 p.m., there was a desire to meet others. They've been looking for them. For an ultimatum of 21 hours, Zinchenko required a measure of responsibility to him. He came from a distance of 50 miles [80 km]. But Zinchenko did not arrive at the appointed time. Together with the head of the shell, we waited until 22 hours, after which we all moved away. By the way, on the 5th channel's live air at 21, 50 minutes, where I was standing, I said I was standing at the city council and waiting for Zinchenko. It should be noted that there was increased security around the mayor and the TVC at the request of Zinchenko himself, and no one was allowed into the mayor without his consent, not even me. As it has been known, yesterday Zinchenko, Ratushnyak, a number of members of the Baloga-dominated landowners, entered the premises under guard for about 22 hours for 30 minutes and met there, after which about 24 hours, according to Zinchenko, they left the premises. An hour later, there was an attack on the TVC and electoral documentation was damaged, which, by the way, the TVC representatives had to demonstrate in the morning. I don't blame anyone. But the question arises: Why didn’t the 21 - hour meeting begin at 30 minutes, and only after the departure of representatives from the SDPU (o) did Zinchenko enter the hall of the mayor, which was opened only to him and to Baloga’s supporters. What was the need? In the morning, we had the opportunity to see all the documentation, which was presented to the court the day before, when we were considering an election complaint that was invalid, which, by the way, was rejected. It became clear that the TVC had disappeared the records of the district commissions and part of the ballot papers. Was it not by chance that Balog was filing a complaint, but he expected nothing to be presented in court? Dear colleagues, you and I know Balogah's mandate would never have given up. Consider how the workman’s commission was formed. No representative from. It's not there. There is only one representative of most Ratushnaks. And who arrived yesterday as a member of the official commission? Strutovich, Matvienko, Moses, Onopenko. Rato, named Ratusznyak, was the head of the committee of Esdeks Zinchenko. Where is objectivity and transparency?Oh, my God! Today it is necessary to act in the right field, not to politicize the elections, unless the scandal is the main goal. I agree that the issues raised should be investigated, but no. Politically engaged, professionally. The culprits must first be punished, and the tormentors must be allowed to live and work peacefully. With regard to today’s speakers. Dear Mrs. Carpachov, why do you announce the election results? And Comrade Zinchenko, how do you know who informed you that instructions were given from the center? And by the way, where are the protocols you're talking about? We're asking them for a third day. And the last. The apogee of your arguments is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u194	Yes, dear fellows. [[B y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y h y y ……]] Alexander Zinchenko has the word for replication. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, I have the right to a replica and to take advantage of it. Dear Mr. Shufrich, I understand from your statement that it was I who stole the ballot papers, beat up the police, contributed to the mayor's heart attack. I thank you and I want to say that if you have no facts, have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u196	Please, from the faction of the Socialist Party, the word is Yuri Lucenko. Get ready for Kafarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u197	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! What happened in Mukachevo cannot be called elections. It is political banditry, open and insolent to the impunity that he has demonstrated, by the way, the previous speaker. The faction strongly condemns this hindrance. We demand that all legal mechanisms be activated, that the point be clarified, and that the perpetrators be severely punished. Would banditry be so widespread if it did not have the authority of the President’s Administration? No, it's not. What, though, is involved in criminalizing the political sphere? Since when and where might such things have occurred, and why? The answer to these questions is simple: In Ukraine power, shadow business and crime are the same. The process of the degradation of democracy has no lower limit. In Ukraine, he reached the point where criminal elements become the essence of the state, as we see above. We have already seen this at the elections in Nicopol. And whoever wins seems to be sitting in this room, in Suma, in Donetsk, in Rome, in Chernig, in Chercas. And we swallowed it all up as we swallowed the beatings of our colleagues. So far, Valentina Seminouk is sitting, and so far, the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs do not see those who beat her with sticks to a concussion. So the criminal system of power works, and we're closing our eyes on it. Dear colleagues! Once again, socialists demand punishment for bandits and their inspirations from the current authorities. Though we hope that the thief will punish the thief, we can only be naive and foolish, and we do not treat him as such. However, we must say otherwise. The tormenting situation is a direct result of the inactivity and complacency of those who have fallen victim to Mukachev today. That is what always happens, evil turns against those who support it. Let's remember something and confess to ourselves, my colleagues and friends from our Ukraine. Wasn't one of Mukachevo's candidates, and then Governor Carpathian provided a lying, false referendum with hundreds of percent? Isn't it one of your colleagues who ran the city in Western Ukraine who chased the unfortunate children into the heat of August's beloved Leonid Danilovich? Unless another colleague of yours shouted that Frost should be given five years for the truth in a cassette scandal. Sadly, this is always the case in life: A person who ignores his conscience is always the first to be struck. But now is not the time to keep score. It's time to mention that we have criminal power today, and we could stop what was happening in Mukachev today by changing people in power, but also by changing the system of power. If we, colleagues, voted in favour of constitutional reform yesterday, we today would have the right to resign the Minister of Internal Affairs. [[We're here.]] Thus, we will only gloat at them and continue to abuse them. Conclusion. We change the system of power, we change people's minds in power, and we prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u198	Please, Gabrieluk's microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u199	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, members of the people! I would like to draw your attention to the extent to which the Government's strength unit, including the Attorney-General, is respected by the people's deputies. Under the procedure, they should be present today throughout the consideration of the matter. Where's the Attorney General? Where is the head of security of Ukraine? Where is the Minister of the Interior? They're gone! That's where we have to start. So, Adam Ivanovich, I very much ask you to contact the heads of these institutions with a request to return to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u200	I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers, a representative, to inform us of the situation. Well, you know, the Minister of Internal Affairs at the hospital, he came in, informed, and there's a reference, and yesterday you were informed. The rest will be kept in the loop. Please, the word from the NDP has the Kafarsky People's Deputy. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich, prepare the Humir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u201	Honourable MPs, electoral law is the only democratic way for people to protect themselves from the violence of power. And if the abuse of this people’s will came today, what can we talk about in Parliament today? It is not the principles of elections, it is not the procedure of elections, it is the constitutional rules of elections that are violated. And we have to make a decision about that. I think that the Commission of the Supreme Council should work until its conclusion and present, together with the relevant authorities of the State, an appropriate position for Parliament to take a decision. But there are other things that we're talking about today, no matter what political parties we're in, we have to think about what socio-political and moral consequences that have happened in Mukachevo today will come true in Ukrainian society. Are they going to have confidence in themselves today? Now, there's no question that those guys that were there today had to put torches in the movies and the 30th year started. How will the world’s public respond to these processes? How will she react to Ukraine? The Head of Mission of the OSCE has already expressed himself very, very correct in this regard. Mitchell said that this boisterous attempt to overthrow electoral efforts is an attack on the most fundamental electoral processes. Thus, it is understandable how the world will appreciate us. And next. I believe that in the process of the work of the Supreme Council commission, in the process of the work of the investigating bodies and the political parties should assume responsibility for what took place in Mukachev. Because we're going to the elections on a proportional system. Do we need a proportional election system, as it happens? I did not vote in favour of the Law on Elections in a Proportional System in the Local Authorities. What will be the place where the elections will take place? And this is also a question to be asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u202	Please, the Competitive People's Deputy of the Gmir. Get ready, Yushchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u203	Respectable colleagues. The Communist faction clearly believes that all those who did the crime in Mukachevo, who forged the elections, should sit. [[Applause]] On the ground of law enforcement, those who are so-called law enforcement officials, I would know how to dispose of personal weapons. And you'll wait for the applause. We must decide here in Parliament how to prevent what has happened and has been happening in Ukraine for many years to continue. This is where the colleagues said that Mukachevo posed a threat to Ukraine, a threat to democracy. I disagree. There has been no democracy in Ukraine for a long time, and Mukachevo is not a primary tumor, it is a metastasis of what has been happening in the country since 1991. When these reforms, so-called, began, gangs began to form. This was attended by most of the political forces sitting in the hall and under the sign of roses and under the sign of trident. Don't forget that. When the First Minister of Defence encouraged the formation of UNA UNSO gangs, he was your minister, gentlemen of nationalists. And you don't have to forget that either. You formed this regime together. And now you think you're out for a year, into what's called opposition, and forget everything? Virginity can be restored by surgical means. But this fact of walking hand in hand does not invalidate the fact that many years have passed by. Dear colleagues, today this is the day when a decree has been issued stating that a request has been made to the President to remove the head of the Administration. Yes, 10 days ago you had the opportunity to make the Chief of the Medvedchuk Administration a fiction, Fata-morganism, by voting for political reform. Why didn't you do it? And today you're running to Kuchma to complain! You can't do that! This is, in my opinion, total immorality. I'm against beating MPs, it's no less scary than when the Communists were in Donetsk, in Kharkiv, in Lviv. I object to the destruction of ballot papers and the expulsion of people, representatives, observers from the commission, just like you did in Lviv, and we have relevant documents in this regard. And the last thing I want to say is, colleagues, we need to change the current regime. This regime is completely rotten, it stinks! And you who, along with the social-democrats and other representatives of the majority of them, try to extend its existence, and to prevent it from being heard, try to make a sound in the hall. It won't work!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u204	From the faction "Our Ukraine" is Victor Andrievich Yushchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I call on Parliament to make an assessment and lessons from the events that took place in Mukachevo. In my opinion, lesson number one. Lesson number one may be that the events that took place on April 18 indicate that in Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, U.S.A., local authorities were involved with bandits. For Carpathians, the same terms are "city power" and "bandit formations." This is thesis number one. In Ukraine, a criminal riot took place, and in Mukachevo power was seized by SDPU (o) representatives through criminality. I'm calling the general of the police, sir? You didn't provide urn protection, you didn't provide district security, you didn't provide security for ballot papers and electoral documents. Everything you've been asked to do has not been provided. So in my mind, you're not a militiaman. You're not even a guard. And that's why I'm addressing you as the captain of the Ukrainian Army's reserve to the general: you betrayed the law, you betrayed the electorate, you took a stand for criminality, your place, really, today at the parachutist, because you acted like a thief. And that's why I understand that you don't have the honor of writing a resignation application. We demand your resignation, this is our political position. I hope that I will live until you report to the law and apologize for Mukachevo's hurtful election. I hope to live until then. The same can be said of Mr. Rizak: in the most difficult hours for the Martyr community he was not with the community, he was with the bandits, he betrayed the community, he betrayed the shepherd and his place on the second bench. Lesson number two: the instigators and organizers of all the thefts that were in Mukachev are the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, and therefore, by all the signs that they were committed there, I say that SDPU is a party of fascist orientation that works with bandits. [[united]] Lesson number three: friends, communists, get out of those three shores, let's not fight, the main thing today is no one, and how the militia did it, or how the authorities did it -- not the main thing, what happened in Mukachevo's election, the territorial election commission forged them. Victor Ivanovich Balog won the election, with 28 polling stations — 1,9385 voters — or 51 percent of those who took part in the election. Therefore, we have the original protocols that testify to this victory, and we do not have a victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u206	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. Dear colleagues, we have four draft decrees with you. Calm down, please, your last name wasn't called. No last name. You've already exchanged lines. Dear colleagues, there are four draft decrees. Unfortunately, the two draft regulations have nothing to do with it. We don't have the right to make decisions like this. Because it says, "express mistrust." You realize that we do not have that right to express our mistrust. To address the President is yes, and to say no to mistrust. Well, you do realize that the draft decrees that there are enough for the head of the Security Service and for the minister of internal affairs are the same person. So let's, let's talk about a serious question, and I'd like you, your honors, to take this seriously. So I suggest that we consider with you two draft regulations that have a bearing on our subject. This is a draft regulation on the procedure for dealing with this issue and on the procedure. Prior to addressing these issues, national deputies insist on continuing discussions. Who's in favour of continuing this discussion, please make up your mind. [[13:16:54]] For 178. The decision is not taken. That's why I'm here. Calm down, we need to make a decision, calm down! Calm down! Yuri Anatoliyovich, tell me that this is a procedural decision for those who sat in the Ukrainian house, okay? Any decision takes at least 226 votes. So, dear colleagues, do you want us to make decisions or not? Yes, you do. Then please listen to us continue to work. And put your hands down. Put your hands down! You've got a lot! You've got a lot! Put your hands down! So you and I, dear colleagues, are going to consider what has to do with the Constitution with you and me. What has nothing to do with the Constitution, Comrade Lucenko, or Mr. Lucenko, your decision will not be considered. That's why I give my word. There is a draft regulation on the procedure for dealing with this issue, here are the authors of the project Yushchenko, Timoshenko and Winski. Which of these three will act by decree? Please, which one of those names? Which one of those names? I repeat, bill number 54. I would like to make a statement to the national deputy of Kachuru, who is preventing the holding of meetings. Once again I turn to Yushchenko, Timoshenko, and Winsky. Which one of them will present his draft decree? Please, Bill number 54520 is represented by Julia Timoshenko. Please. I repeat, your project has not yet been completed. Julia Volodymyrna, will you present your project? Yes, dear colleagues, I do not rule out what is a special order to cancel the meeting. I'd like to reassure the people's deputies. I'd like to reassure the national MPs! Dear colleagues, be careful. I'm gonna say it again. Those who don't want to quit now see who doesn't want us to finish our consideration of the issue. Those who want us to complete our consideration of the matter by making the right decisions demonstrate their willingness. I said there are two decrees in both decrees of the same authors, these are registration numbers 5452-P, and there is still a decree on the voting procedure for the Supreme Council's drafts on the information on the events that took place in the election of the city head of Mukachevo, and the Order, again the authors: Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Wynski about the events that took place in the election of the city head of Mukachevo Zakarpatsk. [[authors Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Wynski]] [[Registration number 5432-2]] Since the authors of these bills were the same, they commissioned Julius Volodymyrovny to present two draft decrees. Please take three minutes for one project and two.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! It's about the fact that the events that are related to Mukachev, the events that are unfolding in us today in Ukraine, in every region, in every city, in every area, this is the absolute combination of the police, the Ukrainian Security Service, the criminal, the administrative resource and behind all this, behind this whole pyramid is several people, and one of these people is Victor Medvedchuk, who, like a spider, has practically spread the web around the country and destroys Ukraine, irrespective of the Constitution, neither to the laws nor to the rights of citizens, is really a person who has to be taken out of his office. And so first of all, I would like to now report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the information on the events that took place in the election of the city head of the city of Mukachevo of Zakarpatsk. This decree is signed by the leaders of three factions: Victor Yushchenk, me, and Joseph Wynski from the socialist faction. This decree sums up all the events that took place in Mukachevo. And the deciding part looks like this. Ask the President of Ukraine to release President Medvechuk Viktor Volodymyrovic from office for actions that have violated the electoral rights of citizens and destabilized the political situation in Ukraine. The second point is to express distrust and ask the President of Ukraine to release the next people from their positions. Ukraine’s Minister of Internal Affairs, Biloconia, in connection with the improper conduct of the militia’s public order tasks during the election of the city chief of the city of Mukachev of Zakarpatsk district, caused massive violations of the electoral rights of citizens and the destabilization of the political situation in the area. Also in connection with the illegal actions of police officers in relation to the Ukrainian national deputies. We all know that today the Minister of Internal Affairs of Bilocon is the main actor in the Medvedchuk team. This is his trustee, it's practically a roof for the entire crime scene of Ukraine. He is the director of criminal groups in Ukraine. And all that was done in Mukachevo: and beating up MPs, and kidnapping ballots -- there is no doubt that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is behind this with its Minister of Bilocon. Whether we will leave in the hands of Medvedczuk and his exhibitor practically the rule of law throughout the country. This is impossible, and we must make such a courageous decision by Parliament. I know that many deputies today have simply abandoned the law and left because they, not even just the button, are afraid to press for the release of the Bear, they are even afraid to be present when the question is being raised. I want to speak to the deputies, don't be cowards! When you're in the towers telling us that Medvedchuk destroyed the country, that Medvedchuk is ruining our freedom with you today. So have the courage to claim it not only in the towers but click on the button. That's why people chose you! You don't have to hide! Next. We all know that in order for these events to take place in Mukachevo, there would have to be a director in a place that would give direct commands and armed formations that today represent the police, and a criminal that I doubt was also armed. Such a man in Mukachev was the head of the Zacarpathian district administration, John Rizak. He directly took over the practical direction of all the destructive events that took place in Mukachev. And so the next point of this decision is to express distrust and ask the President of Ukraine to release the head of the Zacarpathian district administration of Razka in connection with all the events he led in Mukachevo. And also to refer to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a violation of criminal cases against the head of the territorial election committee on the election of the martyr's city head Yuri Perest under articles 157, 158 of the Criminal Code and so on, also against the members of the commission who made the floor and who virtually without the records, without any other documents, announced a forged decision. This is a criminal offence. And turn to the head of Ukraine’s Supreme Court, Mallarenko, who must take the place of a martyr’s court, who in five minutes made an unlawful decision in violation of these procedures. The second decision that I have in my hands provides for a procedure of secret voting for all these proposals for those of us who are particularly fearful in Parliament. You cannot do it publicly, at least in closed mode. Courage will eventually have to be accumulated to cleanse our country of bandits. And the last thing I'm going to say is, "Honorable national MPs." You won't have that opportunity to get rid of the criminal manager of the President's administration again. And then don't cry on the sidelines. Oh, my God. [[Muted microphone]] [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, so two draft decrees, I remind them once again of their numbers, 5432-P. This is a draft decree on the procedure for voting the draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the events that took place in the election of the city head of the city of Mukachev of Zakarpatsk district. And the second draft of Decree 5432-2. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decreed a project on information on events that took place in the election of the city’s head, Mukachev Zacarpatsk district. Both bills, the authors of these bills, Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Wynski. You have been presented with these decrees. Before voting, please write down the reasons for the vote. Three minutes. Please explain. Three minutes. Bandurka, follow him, Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, today we have heard a report by the Attorney General that six criminal cases have been committed. How can we give some estimates today in advance when the results of the investigation, although we gave them a ten - day deadline? There is a committee of law enforcement agencies that could prepare an appropriate draft decision without the subjectivity that is now being considered in the project that we are offered. I don't think you can accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u210	Please, Taras Blackwall, prepare Karnauhu.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u211	I'm asking colleagues, Ukrainian national MPs, to support those two decisions, they're removing the problem from many, the first decision that goes on about secret voting, about the results of the vote. But think of one thing: the President's election campaign begins. I wouldn't want the people who are here, whether they're in opposition or in power, to think naively that some scenarios would be in their favor. The Martyr script is preparation for the President's election and, believe me, it's not for the benefit of the one declared today by the only candidate in power. It will be pressed in the same manner as today’s candidates and elections in Mukachevo City. I urge everyone in this case just to vote for self-preservation. This is the opportunity that gives us the opportunity to finally help the President get rid of the figure that is now being pulled to the bottom and discredited the whole of Ukraine in the eyes of the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u212	Please, Karnauh. Get ready for Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the eighth of April, we have preserved the existing Constitution, and we are very grateful for it. Article 29 of the Constitution stipulates that all public authorities and local governments and their officials are bound to act only within, in a manner and in an order of authority defined by the Constitution and laws. Unfortunately, the Constitution of Ukraine and no law gives us the right to deny the minister of internal affairs. That is why we must act within the limits of the law. And personally, I'm going to say that I've been fighting crime for years with Mikola Vasilovich, and I know as a decent person. That is why I will not vote for his resignation in both moral and legal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u214	Please. It's a dragoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u215	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, I would like to support Alexander Alexander Zinchek, who said in his report that I cannot and have no right to give a legal assessment of the events that took place in Mukachevo. I can only give a political assessment today. So I think, take it off, move it, take it off -- we can't make that decision today, we have to take a political decision today, in which we should give political assessment to those events that took place in Mukachevo and which are the leading points of the next election. And no redundancies, no movement, and so on. This can only be done once the documents are presented, the results.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u216	Yes, dear fellows, we've done all we can. I'll bet. For the reasons we've just finished, for the reasons we've just finished with motive, for the voting procedure, that's the same thing, I've given the opportunity to sign up and speak. So be careful not to be blamed. There are two decrees, each of us will vote separately. And accordingly, the first will be a vote on the voting procedure, because that's both the first one, and logically. We must first define the voting procedure and then vote on the issue of the information that we have heard today. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the procedure for voting draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the events that took place in the election of the city head of the city of Mukachevo Zakarpatsk district is therefore put to the vote. Registration number of this order, project 5432-p, authors Yushchenko, Turkinov, Wynski. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:34:20]] For the 220. The decision is not supported. The factions, please. Yes, "Our Ukraine" is 99, "Regions of Ukraine" is 4, "Communists 55, "Social Democrats" and "Trud Ukraine" is zero, "Socialist Party" is 19, "Timoshenko Block 18", "The People's Government" is 0, "Deminiciates" and "Agrarian Party" is one, "National Choice" is 0, "NDP 4", "Afterfractional" is 19. So it's a decision. That is, the decision to change the voting procedure and switch to a secret ballot is not supported. So this will be done in the mode in which we work according to the Rules: in open-ended roll-call voting. Please write down before the next decision. Three minutes from the next ruling. Please explain. Three minutes. Bandoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. Once again, I propose that we entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement with preparing a draft regulation on the information that we have heard today. We can vote here ten times. Today, we will not make the right decision. It is not politically and legally balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u218	Please, Goodima, Our Ukraine. Get ready, Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u219	Please give Manchulenka a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u220	Please, it's Manchulenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u221	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, will now come to the moment of truth in the assessment of those events that took place recently in Mukachevo, which have taken place before and which may unfortunately take place during the presidential elections in Ukraine. It was a general rehearsal. And maybe it's not just the presidential election: there's going to be elections to Parliament and all that. Therefore, I very much ask all colleagues to address this with honour, responsible as the real representatives of the Ukrainian people in Parliament, to vote as your conscience and your electorate have instructed, not as the President's administration or the representatives of the SDPU faction. Vote with honor, because once again, this is the moment of truth and the moment of real choice. If we fail to give an objective assessment of what is happening, this can happen to any one of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u222	Please, Omelchenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u223	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u224	Please, School. After him, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u225	Dear friends, respected fellow countrymen, respected patriots! On April 18, in Mukachev, the police and bandits beat us, the Ukrainian national deputies. You all know who ordered this showbath, it's a prank. Those whom our people trusted to defend their constitutional rights, their freedom, their lives were beaten. They beat, burned, defiled those behind our backs and pleaded for protection, beat your brothers, your sisters, your children, beat your parents, your mothers. Is there anyone among you who will become an accomplice to the execution, who will not resign to the purchaser and performer of this scheme?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u226	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u227	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. Please give the word to Mr. Aleksandr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u228	Please, it's Frost's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u229	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! I would still ask you once again, if you'd like, to return to the voting procedure and allow those national MPs who today feel pressured to vote freely in the secret voting regime here in the session room. And with regard to the replica of a member of our faction, Mikola Karnauha. That's his personal opinion. I'm deeply convinced that if we had voted the amendments to the Constitution 10 days ago, no militiaman would have dared to raise his hand to the MP. Never would have happened. But come on, we'll take care of it separately. Let's see. Today, there is a political issue -- an assessment of what happened in Mukachev. It's up to the President to decide in the end. We do not release either the head of the administration or the minister, but we have the right to express our position. I impeccably ask you to re-establish the procedure and vote everyone in favour of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-21-m0.u230	Dear colleagues! All right, here we go again. An offer was made to return to the procedure. You and I have identified 220 votes, they're gone. I'm voting on the Bill of Order 5432-2 on the events that took place in the election of the city head of Mukachevo Zakarpatsk district. [[authors of the bill: Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Wynski]] Puts the vote on the basis of a draft ruling. [[13:40:23]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 100, the Ukraine is 1, the Communists are 56, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine - 0, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 0, the People's Government - 0, the SPI-20, the Yulia Block Timoshenko - 19, the Democratic Initiative - 1, the Agrarian Party - 1, the People's Choice - 0, the NDP - 3, the Postfraction - 13. [[united]] Question completed. All the draft decrees that we should have voted with you have been voted on. We've already voted on the basis, then we can delete anything. Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that we are practically out of time, the morning session is closed. At 3 p.m. Parliamentary hearings will be held "The 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Look to the future." Since 16 o'clock, work on committees, factions, groups. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
