ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:23]] -421 registered. There were 421 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues, today's birthdays at Guriev Vasil Mikolaiovich and Rybauk Oleg Borisovich. Let us warmly welcome our colleagues and wish them success in their legislative activities for the benefit of the Ukrainian State. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy, article 13, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, chapter 4.2, we report on the formation of a parliamentary group "Centre" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The full name of the parliamentary group: the Deputy Group "Centre". Short title of the MP: Deputies' Group "Centre". The objective of the parliamentary group is to create conditions for the implementation of the electoral programmes of the deputies, to make systematic changes in the work of Parliament, to democratize it, to restore public confidence in the Supreme Council as a senior representative body of the Ukrainian people, to introduce the principles of legality and democracy into Parliament, to discuss freely the issues of political and economic life of the State by seeking social compromise. I'm reporting the names of the people's deputies who joined the House of Deputies. Bartkov, Boyko, Bondarczuk, Cassianov, Kosinov, Kiroyanz, Savitsky seems to have been written very vaguely, Kazachenko, Klimpush, Gavriluk, Toplov, Sklar, Omelchenko Alexander Alexander, Crnrowil, Dobkin and Bichkov. [[102nd District]] [[Smaller]] As far as I know. Bondarchuk Sergei, 20-1 constituency. As far as I know, this is the most democratic parliamentary group. The most democratic. Because all 16 national deputies are authorized to represent this group. They don't have a boss, they have all the executives. [[Applause]] You know that the rule of law does not regulate how much authority there can be, so that's their full right, they're not violating anything here, in accordance with the rules of our Rules. A total of 16 national deputies. Accordingly, National Deputy Boyko announces the withdrawal from the previous National Election Group. [[102nd constituency]] Dear colleagues, we don't have a procedure today. Many willing. Sign up, three minutes. Three minutes, sign up. Please, on the screen. Yes, three minutes, Bubba. He's behind him, Bondarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u2	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party. Please pass the word to Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u3	Please, it's Barranowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable National Deputies! The Socialist faction is asking you to support us and give us three minutes to make a statement. The point is that recently a dead soldier was buried in Iraq from the Zitomir region. I was at a funeral. And I would like to lead to the famous Chamber of Deputies about the events that took place there. Adam Ivanovich, just so we don't take a break, please give me three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the point is that tomorrow we will have a day of announcements, reports, in accordance with the Rules, and you will be able to do so. Your right to take a break, I don't want to violate the Rules. Please, Bondarchuk. Prepare Petrova.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u7	Please, Vladimir Leschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u8	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I emphasize, Adam Ivanovich, that today is not part of the agenda for Iraq. We need to look at him immediately. The other one. Every week on Wednesday and Friday, requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies, who are a major component of the parliamentary activity. For reasons known yesterday, no requests were made at the session. Therefore, I propose to announce some of the parliamentary questions today. If not in the morning, then after lunch, as we did once. And the third. Today, 134 years have passed since the birth of a person on a planetary scale whose genius is driven by all progressive humanity, Vladimir Illich Lenin. I appeal to all our constituents who exercise the principles of goodness, brotherhood and social justice, to come to the memorials today, and to honor this man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u9	Please, Petrov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u10	Sobolen. Please pass the word to Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u11	Please, the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The "Our Ukraine" faction reports to you, reports the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all the powerful authorities that the crime processes in Mukachevo continue and worsen. Last night, about 8:30 p.m., 200 armed youths took four Ukrainian national deputies hostage, holding them in the city council of Mukachevo. Our colleagues had no opportunity to leave the city council. The police have contributed rather than tried to put order in place, and there is a specific witness to this. That's why I insist that I finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, this is about the questions you've asked in the procedure. The question of Iraq is no problem, but we need a committee. There are many suggestions, none of them have been properly formulated. So I ask the appropriate committees to prepare the submission, and we will put it to the vote as it should be. On the point made by the National MP Lechchenko regarding the announcement of requests, you know that yesterday we did not raise this question by decision of the session hall, according to the agreement of the session room, because we were considering the entire plenary session of another question. We'll have all the requests tomorrow. Today, according to Stephen Bogdanovich, we have no questions; we will do so tomorrow. As for the Welder's application and so on, come on, there's already an application for a break. I think in the course of these discussions and so on, we'll go back to that question. I suggest you, your honor, work like this now. There are already four applications, more faithfully, four factions have written statements of a recess: the BUT factions, our Ukraine, the Socialist factions and the Communists. I suggest we do it this way. Let us now consider the draft decree amending the calendar plan for the fifth session and then announce a recess. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, yesterday at a committee meeting, a draft decision of the Supreme Council, introduced by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, was discussed. Considering that the draft decree of the Supreme Council meets the requirements of the Rules, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council to include the draft decision in the order of the day’s fifth session and recommends that the draft regulation be supported. I'll remind you, Your Honor, of just what the Supreme Council's draft regulation on changing the calendar of the fifth session, introduced by the Head of the Supreme Council. It's about working in May-Month instead of working in plenary from May 5th to May 7th in committees, factions and groups. A week from May 11th to May 14th, use it to work in the Supreme Council's plenary mode, adding one day, plus one day instead of three in the previous week, on the previous week for plenary work. With regard to the changes proposed in the calendar plan for our work at the end of June and early in July, they are related to the fact that a reconstruction will take place in this plenary room during the period of the meeting. This is a very big job, and it takes more than two months, according to all the estimates made by the relevant experts and managers, particularly the services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're asking us to move only the closure of the Supreme Council in plenary mode for one week until July 2. And so the Head of the Supreme Council proposes that, instead of working the last week of June in the constituencies, we work in the Supreme Council in plenary mode, as well as the following week, i.e. from 29 to 2 July, also work in plenary mode and finish the 5th plenary session on July 2nd, but I would like to stress, two weeks from now, to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u16	To work for the people's deputies in the constituencies to explain the complex issues that have been decided with us during this fifth session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I see a question here. Please sign up for three minutes. Please explain. Three minutes. Taran. It's a dragoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u18	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I think this decision, the draft of this decision, should be supported. Moreover, if the session is really over, people will be waiting for us in the districts. We'll report it, some kind of report. That is why our faction has been discussing this issue today, and we support and call on others to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u20	Please, the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u21	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Valentin Grigorovich! I think the head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, has made a reasonable offer that you have supported. I think this will be the most rational way to promote the work of the Supreme Council. So I fully support those suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u22	Please, Matthew Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u23	Valentin Grigoryevich, I ask you once again to clarify my position more clearly and clearly on my month, I'm going to tell you everything, and in my opinion, please repeat it more clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u24	Please, Sergey Anatolyovich. In May, a week from May 5 to May 7 is proposed to work in committees and factions. The week from 11 to 14 May is how to organize the work: the 11th meeting of the Conciliation Council, the Government Day, the plenary session; the 12th plenary meetings, the 13th morning session, and then the parliamentary hearings; the 14th plenary sessions of the Supreme Council. This is about our work in May, which is proposed by the named draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u25	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u26	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Valentin Grigorovich. You made it easier for me. Thank you. In fact, on May 13, at 3 p.m., we're proposing parliamentary hearings on a very acute issue -- a situation, a situation in Ukraine's higher school, compliance with legislation. But on occasion, I would like to make sure that by this date we have approved the law on repayment of debts to teachers under article 57. In this regard, I also call on the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Finance and Banking to enforce this law. 120,000 lawsuits today by teachers to local authorities for failure to implement article 57. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u27	I'm asking you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u28	Yes, dear fellows. Sit down, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, there was another request, I'll inform you. Indeed, the deputies are interested in what will happen to the reconstruction in the session room. You know, or most of you know, and you've probably already measured the places that our management put here to get your comments. We want to improve the placement of national deputies in the session room. It is planned, especially in the back of our bench, to split up, so that we can get out more quickly and more freely, to leave these places. Some of the people’s deputies have come to know each other. Whoever didn't get to know you, I'm asking you to do it. There's a deputy's job in the lobby. Let each one of you sit down, be balanced. What are the proposals going to be -- they're going to make these proposals, because some of the people's deputies, according to the Management of Affairs, have made the right proposals to this job. And after that, when we collect these proposals, if we're going to take this draft decision with you now, we're going to be able to do a reconstruction of the session room during the summer break. Therefore, dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make changes to the calendar plan for the fifth session, registration number 5429. Vote. [[10:23:05]] For 381 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in view of the need to do some work on the new materials that have come, I announce that the question of the draft Decision on the appointment of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is being referred to another plenary day. Now, at the request of four factions, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Requesting the heads of factions and MPs to meet in the third hall. Break to 10 o'clock 53 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. There was, as always, a heated discussion on the Conciliation Council. But I think it was constructive, at least we made constructive decisions. I'm going to brief you on the algorithm for our further work. We agreed that now, with the information, the message of what the factions took a break for, they would come from the factions of the Socialists, the communists of Baran and the factions of Our Ukraine and BUTU, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko will have the word. Then you and I will put to the vote the day-to-day question of the draft decision on the situation in Mukachevo. After that, we will consider draft regulations that should be handed down in the session room and make appropriate decisions. Please, let's get back to work. Baranowski, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u30	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The faction of Socialists and Communists has taken a break to give you, as well as our constituents, the opportunity to announce, as you do, the honourable people's deputies, the following. On the eve of the Passover in the depths of the village of Kolodjanka, a Ukrainian soldier named Ruslan Andruszczuk was buried in Iraq. Thousands of villagers from the surrounding areas came to follow the last path of a 24-year-old contractor who decided in this way to make money to build his own house. I've earned, as we can see, only in the grave. Before the mourning procession, Ruslanov’s bride carried a cow. Thousands of people were paralyzed by tears and tears. I say this in such detail because most of the members of our Parliament are directly involved in this senseless death. They programmed it. And it's only a matter of time. To pay the last tribute to the victim of his senseless decision on Ukraine’s participation in the American coalition was not successful. I did not see any of those in the Supreme Council actively campaigning for Ukraine’s participation in this adventure last year at funerals in the Colledians. Why don't you gentlemen come to the funeral? Were not angry peasants whose fates were so foolishly arranged? Blindly submitting to the will of the Bank, the obedient parliamentary majority took on the idea of washing the stained reputation of the guarantor of the Constitution with the blood of young Ukrainians. What are our boys dying for? What interests did Ukraine find in Iraq? How can we explain to grieving parents why their children are exposed to the bullet? I'd like to ask the people's deputies: which one of you sent your own son to Iraq? The people of Ukraine should know thoroughly who voted in favour of sending our troops to the hot sands of Alcutta? These are members of the parliamentary majority, the leaders of the factions of which are the Desert Tenko, Gavrish, Kravczuk, Bogatirirov, Sharov, Hubsky, Vaszczuk, who thought, not their heads, but, as it were, their wallets and wallets. These are three members of the Julia Timoshenko faction: Stephen Cloud, Andrew School, and Anatoly Matthew. This is Victor Yushchenko, Yuri Kostenko, Roman Immortal and 36 other members of our Ukraine faction. And only the factions of socialists and communists in total were against the deployment of troops to Iraq. Decent doers of foreign will! Today you have the opportunity to atone fully for your sin by the family of a fallen soldier, in front of all the Ukrainian people. We made black boxes -- altars -- for every faction of Parliament. Don’t be shy or shy: Ukrainian national deputies, go to the baskets with your wallets, and redeem yourself from sin in front of the family of the deceased, Ruslan Andrásuk. I think God will count it for you. Although there is no sin in front of the family of the deceased, socialists and Communists have prepared a white box for themselves, where we place our contribution. All the boxes from Kiev will be taken to Kolodyanka, and the people in the villages and cities will see through the tribulation as each factions will atone for their sin. Therefore, Communists and socialists, factions, demand the immediate withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. In fact, Honduras, honourable deputies who have the same color flag as the coat of arms, made the same decision. So I think we need to do this a long time ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u31	Yes, please, information from the faction of Ukraine and BUT. Victor Andryovich Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I appeal again today to the Hall, to the national MPs who have morals and who have honor. Mukachevo is the image of Ukraine. Today, the martyrdom has betrayed the electorate. Dear friends, today there is a struggle between law and lawlessness in Mukachev. So, dear friends, we have to look at what's going on and continue to happen today in Mukachev, that's a challenge. The challenge for honest Ukrainian politicians, whether they can lead the country's parliament, their political forces through the path of self-cleaning. My dear fellow national MPs, I ask you to get off your knees today, don't look at the Bank, don't listen to Medvedchuk, make a moral conscious decision against the crime of Zacarpat. Note this: Today the ballots in Zakarpat were stolen and burned. It's a known place to burn these ballots. Stolen protocol by the district commission, stolen protocol by the territorial commission. The Commission of the Supreme Council came with nothing because it could not meet any members of the territorial election commission. The Ukrainian Parliamentary Commission received no official document from the territorial electoral commission. Friends, do you take these possums or don't you take them? And most importantly, at this time in Mukachev, there are 14 deputies of the City Council, and they are taking the so-called oath of the head that they took on forged documents. Guys, we've prepared a draft decision. I'm asking you, please, every national MP today, support these decrees, protect the torturer. And I think for any country, including Ukraine, that question should be number one. Where power was capitalizing, the Ukrainian Parliament should not surrender. Demonstrate your morality and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think any of the national MPs are opposed to the initiative announced by the Barani people's MP, but let's do it at the right time, when there's a break and when there's a chance to come up to, well, not to interfere with the national MPs' work. I think we can support this idea. But let's do it within reasonable limits. So, dear colleagues, you and I have been exchanging thoughts about this, more faithfully, listening to information about why the four factions took a break. I'm probably going to put these questions to the vote. I'm asking for a vote: who's in charge of including the day-to-day issue of the withdrawal of troops from Iraq? [[11:39:53]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The question is not included. The factions. You don't have to! You have to tell me! "Our Ukraine" is 82, "Regions of Ukraine" is 7, communists 58. Which one of the Communists couldn't make it? Social Democrats - 3, Hard Ukraine - 0, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, People's Government - 10, Deminicatives - 0, Centre - 3, Agrarian Party - 1, NDP - 0, People's Choice - 4, Postfraction - 5. Questions are not included in the agenda. There's no motive, calm down! The second time, I'm not going to put a question to the vote! I'm not gonna ask you a second time! Excuse me, Valentin Grigorovich, read the Rules, it is written for reasons: not after the vote. Sign up, three minutes of motive. Let me explain. He's a workman, Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to invite everyone to the hall. This is also a matter of honor for our Parliament. The nations of the world have come to realize that this war is hopeless; it is not just. Our armies are perceived by locals as invaders. Our boys are dying. Now we are raising money for the funerals of our military officer, the suffering of parents and children. I very much ask you to put the vote again, but it is imperative that you invite everyone before the vote, because you see, the hall is still half empty, and the one who can vote has not yet arrived at his place of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u35	Please, Bulba. Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u36	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I ask the chairman to put this question to the vote again. I am convinced that most of the people's deputies, convinced, will vote and support the proposal to consider recalling the Ukrainian military contingent from Iraq. This is a problem that needs to be discussed. As we discuss the problem, we are convinced that we need to make an immediate decision to recall our contingent from Iraq. Socialists have always maintained that position. The National Security Committee endorsed this decision by a majority of votes in absolute terms yesterday. I'm going to propose once again -- I'm going to turn to most -- let's vote, let's take a look at this and figure it out as the people are going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u37	Please, Cossack. After him, Gračov. No Cossack? Then please, Player.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u38	Please hand over Valentine Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u39	Please, Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I assure you that I know the requirements of the Rules, but in view of what has been asked of you suddenly, on behalf of the Communist faction, I would ask him to put it to the vote again, that it is necessary to do so today that he confirms, in particular, such information. In its original language, 51 percent of Americans believe that there is a likely possibility that events in Iraq will take place in the United States. 42 per cent of those questioned are convinced that the sending of American troops to Iraq was a mistake.” I think that the more the people of Ukraine expect from us the kind of decision that concerns the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u41	Now we're going to vote on who to go back to voting on this issue. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:18]] For-200 Our Ukraine is 64, the Ukrainian regions are 7, the Communists are 59, the Social Democrats are 0, the Ukrainian labour force is -0, the Socialists are 20, the Yulia Block Timoshenko - 19, the People's Government - 2, the Deminitatives - 0, the Center - 13, the Agrarian Party - 1, the NDP - 8, the People's Choice - 0, the Postfaction - 7. Dear colleagues! Be careful. I beg you not to scream. I'm making a note of you in the order of conduct. Don't yell in the hall. In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Board, I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Resolutions on the situation that took place in connection with the events that took place during the election of the Mukachevo City Head. Please vote. [[11:46:45.]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 96, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 0, Social Democrats - 4, "Trudova Ukraine" -1, Socialists - 16, Block Timoshenko - 19, "People's Government" - 6, "Deminiciates" - 1, "Centre" - 12, Agrarian Party - 3, NDP - 7, "National Choice" - 0, non-fractional - 10. So the question is not included. Three minutes of motivation, please. Sign up. Please point it on the board. Please, Olinick, the workman. Yes, Boris Ilchi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I will vote in favour of including Mukachevo only after it has been voted to include the issue of the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u43	Please, Robot, follow him, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Yuri Orobec. These two problems are very urgent for our society. I was the one who voted in favour of both problems. But there were MPs who in one case voted in favour, and they didn't vote in the other. It's quite obvious that we need to vote on both of these projects. And then we'll be happy to get out of this situation. We both need to talk about these problems in the hall. I'm addressing all the people's deputies, what are we going to go to the Ukrainians with? Let us return immediately and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u45	Please, Lucenka, behind him is the Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u47	Please, it's Frost's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. I'm talking to everyone. Honourable deputies, both of them, have great political importance, but there is one procedure for both issues, including in the order of the day. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, there is a request, ask both questions to vote on including them in the order of the day today, and we take away all problems. I ask you to vote in the package to put two issues into order, and we will vote them together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u49	Please, Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on in Mukachevo is not a local event. This is an open cynical demonstration of the rapid fascism of today's regime. This applies to anyone who understands what a bandit regime is, where all rights and freedoms are trampled on. What is being done today in Mukachevo, if not stopped, will take over Ukraine tomorrow. And perhaps it will be too late to make a difference. Get your hands off me, please! In this regard, vote for the inclusion of these two issues in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u51	Exchanged thoughts. Similarly, as with the previous question, I will put it to the vote. Who's in charge of voting on the inclusion of the day-to-day issue of draft decisions on the situation in Mukachevo? [[11:51:55]] For 231 I therefore put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation in connection with the events that took place during the election of the city’s capital, Mukacheva. [[11:52:30.]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, by factions. Our Ukraine - 98, Ukraine - 4, Communist - 48, Social-Democracy - 0, Labour Ukraine - 1, Socialists - 19, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 19, People's Government - 2, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Center - 13, Agrarian Party - 2, NDP - 3, People's Choice - 2, Postfraction - 12. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the majority. We've just spoken to you at the Conciliation Council meeting about what we're putting into the agenda. We're putting it into the agenda and we're looking at all of the draft regulations that we have. We now have three draft decrees. Three draft rulings are handed out, so we're all going to be, if we put questions into the agenda, we're all going to be looking at them, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u52	I don't care if your card didn't work, I won't vote for you. All draft decrees are two draft decrees in exchange for earlier school and one draft decree from the majority. We will discuss them and put them to a vote. So I would like to support the proposal to put this into perspective, to consider and to put a dot. I am putting to the vote the question of putting into the agenda the draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation in connection with the events that took place during the election of the city’s head, Mukachevo. Please vote. [[11:54:35]] For 238. I make a remark to Nikolaynko, who uncensoredly speaks in the name of the chairman of the meeting. I'll set it up, get it out of the hall. 238, decision taken. We're moving on to issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to deal with it this way. I'm informing. By factions, please show me. Please. .99 The regions of Ukraine are 4, the communists are 58, the Socialists are 0, the Hard Ukraine is 0, the Socialists are 20, the Block of Timoshenko is 19, the People's Government is 1, the Dem. Initiatives are 0, the Center is 12, the Agrarian Party is 8, the NDP is 7, the People's Choice is 0, the Non-Factional is 10. Questions in the agenda are included. Who, in order to vote on the question of joining the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, please identify yourself. [[11:57:50]] For 236 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 95, "Regions" - 4, Communists - 59, Social Democrats - 0, "Trug Ukraine" - 1, Socialists - 20, Timoshenko - 19, "The People's Government" - 1, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Centre" - 15, "Agrarian Party - 2, "NDP - 8, "The People's Choice" - 1, "The People's Choice" - 11. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulations on. [[We didn't include it -- we voted to vote on it.]] I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the decision to withdraw the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq. Please vote. [[11:59:13]] For 216 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 93, "Ukrainian Regions" - 5, Communists - 59, Social Democrats - 0, "Trudova Ukraine" - 1, "SPU - 20, Timoshenko - 19, "The People's Government" - 1, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Centre" - 12, "Agrarn, NDP, "National Choice" - 0, "The People's Choice" - 6. The question is not included. Dear colleagues, please listen to information on how we will consider the draft decisions of the Supreme Council regarding the situation in connection with the events that took place during the election of Mukachevo. There are three draft regulations. We'll give three minutes' notice to the drafters, three minutes' time to answer the questions. And then we're going to give the information three minutes to the head of the MP's investigation committee that we've created with you, to the national deputy worker. And then we'll figure it out. I, my esteemed colleagues, have suggested that we do not interrupt and consider the matter without interruption for more than an hour. Sign the procedure. Three minutes. Please, three minutes, Singer, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u53	May I have a word with Rudzikowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u54	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Today, we must vote in favour of including Iraq in the daytime message. And what we've agreed on at the Conciliation Council is that today we're going to include both questions -- and the question of Martyr's, and the question of the withdrawal of troops from Iraq. It was an agreement on the Conciliation Council and let's make arrangements and vote on these issues in a package, because the question of withdrawal is security, national security, and we can't treat it so calmly. Even Honduras brought troops out of Iraq! So what are we, Ukrainians, worse than Honduras?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u55	Please, Taran. Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u56	Give it to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u57	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, these two questions are certainly too important for Ukraine so that we can avoid them. So we now propose, in accordance with the agreement, to consider the situation in Mukachev and to stop it, to stop the abuse of the Constitution that is taking place today in this city, because tomorrow it will be happening everywhere when criminality rules not only in secret, but officially the entire state. And immediately after considering this issue again, Adam Ivanovich, we ask for a ruling to be put to the vote, my, by the way, decision to withdraw troops from Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u59	Please, Razwadowski. Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u60	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Zitomirsk oblast, Viktor Razwadowski. Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". I thank Victor Razwadowski very much. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, I had no opportunity to speak. I wanted to report that in the photos, people recognized the employees of the physical protection unit of the tax police. So it's about terrorism at Zakarpatta, and that's what you should call it. Even the deputy chief of the DPA, Yuri Lupetsky, was recognized there in the pictures. Therefore, honourable national deputies, I am in favour of voting now and for the withdrawal of our armies from Iraq, and for the cessation of terrorism and the cessation of the terrorization of Ukraine by Medvedchuk. I ask these questions, both of them. They will all be.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u62	We've done it more than once, and we've seen your support. Please, Grigorovitch. None. Well, then, dear fellows. It's gone. It's gone. No one will ever speak again. Please. I repeat, no one will speak, including Zinchenko, because the screen is already zero. And so is Sinchenko, because the time is, unfortunately, exhausted. Dear colleagues! I apologize for burning both of us. Once again, however, the ruling states that he has the right to make remarks when he is prevented from holding meetings. I did it. In view of the fact that two factions: Social Democrats and Hard Ukraine are requesting recesses, a 30-minute recess is announced, until 12.35. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, we have yet to come up with you to consider the question of Mukachevo, which is literally a procedural matter, and then we will consider it. In accordance with the Constitutional Court Act of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, by decree of 25 March 2004, appointed Susana’s Stationary Romanesque Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes office from the day he took his oath at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Susan Romanovna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u64	The high-ranking national MPs, the high-ranking chairman, the high-ranking prime minister. I have the honour to take an oath before you to the judge of the Constitutional Court. I solemnly swear honestly and conscientiously to perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome Susana Romanovna with a legal admission to the high office of Judge Constitutional Court. And you know that, including us giving a lot of work to the Constitutional Court, and we're going to expect another woman to come there, the Constitutional Court will be at the height of his high duties. Please, Melnik's microphone, P.O.P.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u66	I'm asking you to give the word to Nicholas, who's been called twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u67	Niklaenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u68	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Before the vote on the withdrawal of our troops from Iraq, as well as the situation in Mukachevo, these two decisions on inclusion in the agenda did not take place, nor did they raise the necessary number of votes. The head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, proposed that the two issues be united and voted together. Such an offer was not made. However, the chairman of the session did not put the matter to the vote. When this did not happen, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine authorized me to go and tell the chairman. When I asked the chairman as we had tens of times together to put about the inclusion in the agenda, Adam Ivanovich in a rather harsh, rough form, excuse me, sent me out of the rostrum. But he passed it on to the microphone all over Ukraine that I did it. So I ask you to remove the presiding officer from the holding of the meetings. Witness today, witness Taran-Terren, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, don't raise your hands or your legs, sit down and we'll work if you want to consider the question if you want to consider the question that we've announced. So I give you my word, who of the factions who took the break will speak? Who's from the factions? Shufrich, Sharov, do you take the floor? Dear colleagues, two factions declared a recess, two factions declared a recess. Please don't take the word for information, it's their right. So please contact him if you have a last name. So we agreed to report the information, reports the draft decrees to the National MP at school. He's the author of two draft rulings, so please have them for six minutes. To prepare for the representatives, who of the majority, here are a few names, please identify.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u70	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I made a decision in exchange for the previous Supreme Council decree on the procedure for voting in Mukachev and the ruling itself. I think it would be much more logical to vote in secret, except that for this reason or any other reason, the Prime Minister has arrived here. I think he's here to make sure everything is well-elected in the Supreme Council. Well, that's why I wanted to deprive someone of the ability to influence, and I'm proposing to vote on the order to deal with the situation in Mukachev in secret mode. And I think it's a perfectly normal position, a perfectly normal offer, and I would like the national MPs to support me in that. On the subject of the situation in Mukachev. I'd like to actually say a few words about that. A martyr's event is not just a coincidence, it's not just a struggle against the mayor's position in a small Ukrainian city. It's not just a fight for someone. One representative appointed Mayor Mukachevo. This is the struggle for the President's election in Ukraine, this is the fight for what these elections are going to be, this is the struggle to find out what human patience is. And patience is not limitless. The situation in Mukachev is focused on the point of the highest boiling point, and in any event, if the Supreme Council does not express its attitude towards the events in Mukachev, it will not express its attitude towards the beating of the national MPs in the end, it will not express its attitude towards the escalation of tension and, most importantly, it is all about the spilling of blood, and this blood will decompose everyone. And this task comes from the head of the Presidential Administration. So, in the decree, there is a clear appeal to the President to determine who is in charge in Ukraine, whether he or his head of administration. And this, for me, is a tolerant and absolutely loyal offer. I would like not to recount what was there, I would like to read a letter that came to the faction's address from the people of Mukachevo: "Dear patriots! People of the most beautiful, peaceful, patient state of Ukraine are addressing you to the world of the Ukrainian city of Mukachev. We are very impressed, surprised, concerned by the fact that the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council has found those national deputies whom we trusted to protect our lives and the lives of our families, but who refused to vote in favour of the resignation of the leaders of the bloody massacre on April 18, 2004, in Mukachevo. It's the national electorate who throws their people -- Ukrainians at each other with a bunch of thugs, taking care of their own warm place in the Supreme Council. We're in despair. To whom we can seek protection and salvation, simple people, where we can run along with our families, if the highest legislative authorities, the Ukrainian national deputies, are afraid of gangs of bandits. We know that the entire people of Ukraine are waiting for the people to make the only right decision: to resign the customer of these bloody events. We will pray for those national deputies who have stood up for their people. Give God’s health and happiness to them and their families. But we also want to know the names of those deputies who have become accomplices to this claim, covering up the customers. We want to know the names of those who yearn for human judgment, those who do not care for their future and the future of their families. We urge you to publish their names in the Evening News newspaper. With deep respect, the people of the city." And we will publish in all the democratic publications the names of those associate deputies of Victor Medvedchuk. I'd like those names on this list to be as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u71	Andrew, please, to the rostrum. Sign up, three minutes to ask. Yes, please. Explain. Please, three minutes. You son of a bitch. Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u72	Fucking Communist faction. I have a question. On what basis do the charges go to the authorities? And their actions are specific to the voting period and when the vote was counted. Because it resembles those events that took place in 61 districts in the Donetsk region. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u73	By the way, I agree with you completely. Thank you for asking. In fact, the scenario worked out in major elections. I'm absolutely in agreement here. And the events that unfolded in Mukachevo are very similar to those in 61 districts. What power did. This authority ordered the removal of security from a public object, the city council, the removal of state protection, the deputy head of the city’s militia. That's the first one. Another situation. This authority did not provide an objective investigation into the matter. Now we have clear information that the authorities have obstructed the MP group that led up to Zinchenko, the heads of the committees, it's four nationals, it's not easy. The four heads of the committees that went out there and planned for them were constantly opposed by all branches of government. And when it's said that one of the authorities came later and they didn't wait for him because he was driving from a god, it's a lie because he didn't come. And the authorities here have a clear position. Once again, not just to break the election, not just to hold your candidates, to do it cynically, abruptly, demeaning the honour and dignity of all the people of Mukachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u74	Please, Vernigora. Philenko's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u75	I ask you to pass the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u76	Please, Lucenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u77	Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I have a question for the reporter first. Andrey, and why did the decision fall under the responsibility of the IMF leadership, because we all know that they committed lawlessness in Mukachev. And I have a second question for Adam Ivanovich. On what basis do you record the first decision I made regarding the events in Mukachev? [[No. 5432]] What section of the Rules allows you to reject the legislative initiative of the People’s Deputies Lucenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u78	Well, I'll answer my part of the question, and then let the chairman do it. With regard to police personnel, their responsibilities. It should be understood that a child compromise is always ugly. The decision is a child compromise, believe me. And this compromise has to be achieved because I read the letter from Mukachev for nothing. Believe me, the situation there is very, very explosive. There's all the sparks thrown away. Now we can only expect flames. So that's why there is, let's say, no suspension of responsibility, all the responsibility will still be borne, because there's a removal of responsibility from the Ministry, but the responsibility is transferred to the perpetrators of the criminal order. And the execution of a criminal order is punishable. Adam Ivanovich, there was a question for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u79	There was a question for me. I'm explaining. We talked about this today on the Conciliation Council, me. Don't let Philenko worry, I'll give him a minute, because there was a question, I'll answer it. The point is that two draft decrees were introduced yesterday, including the author of the School, who has now replaced the one that does not correspond to the Constitution. Because the Constitution does not allow us to express our mistrust either to the minister of internal affairs or to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The draft decrees, which were sponsored by School and Lucenko, were: First point. Distrust the minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Let's do that.]] Second item. Appoint the Minister of the Ministry of the Martyr's Landing. This is also contrary to the Constitution. Another decree. It's number one. Express distrust to the head of the Security Service. Item two. Appoint the head of the Peacekeeper's Security Service of the City Council. So of course it's a good epistolic genre, but it has nothing to do with lawmaking. And that's why, according to the Constitution, as the Basic Law, I didn't put it to a full vote. Please, Philenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u80	Dear reporter! Vladimir Filenko, faction of our Ukraine. I have two questions for you. Do you know that yesterday, within three hours of the local police's inactivity, members of the Supreme Council, officials of the Supreme Council, not representatives of specific factions, but the official delegation of the Supreme Council, were blocked. And only the intervention of the U.S.A. in the middle of the night enabled them to leave the town hall? And the second. Do you know that the prosecutor’s investigators finally entered the room of the territorial electoral commission and found no document there. Also, how have no members of the territorial election commission been found to date?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u81	Of course, I know all these facts. Moreover, I would like to point out that the intervention of the members of the U.S.S.A. has not only unlocked the situation but has protected the lives of the national MPs. The lives of the national deputies were at stake. Thank you for asking, Volodymyr, to actually make this sound in this stenogram room. The life of the deputies was threatened. And the intervention of security officials protected their lives, and this threat was removed. In particular, the life of the committee heads, Stretovich and Matvienka. So I think the question of the election commission, well, you know, the Moor did his thing, and the Moor went away. They declared without justification, sucking out of their finger, not even falsifying the protocols, winning another candidate, and separated. And now, of course, no one will find them. But I'd really like the D.A. to find them eventually. Because both those who order and those who perform do have to be punished, so that others may be incorruptible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u82	Thank you. So we've heard draft regulations, a report on draft decrees 5432-p1 and 5432-1. Now this bill, number 5432-3, represents Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, we understand the value of the question in Mukachev, as the price of the question of democracy and the obligation, of course, to make an appropriate decision at the constitutional level of the Supreme Council. So, with the commission of six factions of Parliament, I propose to you a draft ruling, where we are not guided by emotion, but rather by the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is a political practice that allows us to make this decision on the basis of a valid Constitution and the Rules. We propose that the responsible institutions of Ukraine that have the appropriate competence, i.e. the law enforcement institutions, ensure that these facts are properly investigated and that decisions are taken under the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We come from the fact that making other decisions that are personally directed against the specific leaders of these law enforcement institutions, whose faults have not been proven and cannot be proven at this time, because there is an appropriate procedure, would mean nothing but political persecution. Sadly, we do not realize that this is a boomerang that will come back to us. We create bad practices when, in any political competition, even when substantive legislation is violated, we make victims of a system that is not political organizations, but the law enforcement agencies themselves, destabilizing the rule of law in the country. That's why we have to take the very decision to entrust the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service within the appropriate authority to ensure the organization of the study and the establishment of these circumstances during the elections of the city's head, Mukachevo, and to report on this to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then, with the relevant facts, we can associate them with the work of the interim commission of inquiry, with the position of the national deputies, who directly participated in solving this problem in Mukachev, and take the appropriate honest decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u84	Please write down who has the question. Please explain. Please, three minutes. Ivanov, Kafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u85	Stepan Bogdanovich, I just don't get it, well, the President's got the Attorney General's office cleared, so why do we duplicate all of this?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u86	Thank you. An absolutely fair question and it really needs serious discussion, but at the same time we understand that there is a requirement in the session room for political forces that require a separate decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think the people's deputies have a right to do that. On the other hand, we propose to make a decision that is most consistent with the current legislation of Ukraine, which is not politicized, in which all the political powers of Parliament can be interested.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u87	Please, Rybak. Get ready for Grimri. Vladimir Vasilovich, is there no question or is there no wish? Then please, Gmira. Get ready for Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u88	Adam Ivanovich, Mihovic, please give me the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u89	Please, Mighovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u90	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Ivan Mihovich, the Company faction, the Carpathians. Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, you are a qualified high-class lawyer. And you've proposed a document that, you know, can't solve anything from the extraordinary situation in Mukachev, but now it's covering everything. You see, the central authorities that are now there are avoiding meetings, not doing their job right, and it's going to go to what they say to bring down on the brakes this problem that has arisen. And that's why I think you realize, do you really want tactics like that to delay time, not to file any papers or territorial election boards or other materials, to find a prosecutor, not everyone else can. You can't see it's a delaying tactic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u91	Thank you. With regard to the proposal made by the leaders of the six parliamentary groups and the factions of parliament, it may be accepted or not supported. The following will include positions of 226 national deputies. I understand this in such a way that we have proposed such a text of a regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which enables us to really fight against the current legislation of Ukraine. I'm really an expert lawyer and I've gone through all of the lawyer-practice patterns and at the same time a scientist. I can't understand when I'm being told about the need to report law enforcement directly to the national MPs at the scene of the investigation of any event. There is valid procedural legislation, and there are appropriate normative documents that are required to carry out their duty of service. And the service of the law in this regard should be the highest, not the service of specific people. So I'm afraid that this is how we don't start dismantling the law enforcement system in Ukraine, turn the law enforcement officers into hostages of our political struggle, force them not tomorrow when this fight reaches a critical limit, in fact not to go out and bring Ukraine into anarchy, so we've offered the most tolerant document that can unite us. On the other hand, I agree that when it is accepted as a basis, proposals will be made to it that can improve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u92	Please, Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u93	Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u94	The Turk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u95	Dear Stephen Bogdanovich, we listened to the information and the minister of internal affairs yesterday, and the head of the Security Service, you know, was ashamed of these high officials who just don't control the situation. Moreover, it has been proved that it is the police who are cooperating with criminal elements. It is the police who provide both the beatings and the kidnapping of ballot papers. And in your determination, you're proposing to the police, to re-investigate, that is, you're actually assigning them to cover up clues that they haven't been able to hide in a week. How do you think, well, it makes sense to make such a decision and commission to make to those people who have already compromised themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u96	Well, I think that this assignment to the relevant competent institutions of the Ukrainian law enforcement system is in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. As far as the image is concerned. I felt even more bitter when images were heard about law enforcement officials. I don't think it's an honor for the Ukrainian Parliament to violate the main conquest of democracy, which the civilisation is so proud of, is the presumption of innocence, because no one has proved to anyone that there is any convincing connection at this time with the criminal elements of the militia. We are taking very dangerous steps towards discrediting today's security system, which is a factor of stability for the Ukrainian state. So in spite of all our emotions, let's stop at this and save at least the stable rule of law that is taking place today, leading perhaps a sharp dialogue, raising conditions, demands, but not discrediting people who are daily going to war with crime for us with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u97	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich, sit down. As I've already informed you, the Conciliation Board has made a decision that we will hear information within three minutes without answering a question, the workman is the head of a special commission of inquiry around the Mukachevo events. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? This night was one of the worst nights of my life, and that is why I deserve to be heard by you. All day yesterday, there was an absolute vachanal of criminal authorities. Since I call my surnames, consider my speech an official request under the name of the Attorney General of Ukraine. They are run by criminal groups called Medvedchuk’s son - in - law, Paulia, chali’s surname, Moldovan. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the coordination of the efforts of the district's criminality is being carried out personally by the head of the Warzab militia, his deputy Russian. I personally testify that the Russian was conscripting an Immortal MP, into whom they were to turn their hands in such a way that the nose reached the ground. I'm testifying that city-level coordination is being carried out by the Head of the Derniv Police. Personally, his deputy Schvend had a police protection team shut down, and criminals broke into the precinct and stole the bulletin records. It was yesterday, not the police, that criminal authorities protected the premises of the territorial commission. As a result, the actions of the Attorney General’s Office, the district attorney’s office, and the work of the commission you created have been blocked. I recognized two bandits, and their militia warned them in time -- and they ran away so they wouldn't be aware. It's Chuborko, son-in-law or something. Medvedchuk, stole the papers from Matvienka, the official documents. And the last. Yesterday, the gang blocked the commission. Yesterday there was a colossal, grand rally, the biggest rally - 10,000 people gathered in the square, and the bandits brought a whole pile of wood to set fire to it. The honorable community, to be honest, should have one conclusion: our armies must be brought out of Iraq and brought into Mukachevo, removed from power by the criminal police and reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u99	Thank you. We're done discussing the draft regulations. In the coming order, I'll put them to the vote. The draft regulation 5432-p1: on the procedure for voting for the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on information on events that took place in the election of the city head of Mukachevo Zakarpatsk district. The project is being implemented by the People's Chamber of Schools. [[13:08:42]] For 228 Decision taken. Therefore, respectable colleagues. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 100, "Regions of Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 59, Social Democrats and "Trudova Ukraine" - 0, Socialists 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "The People's Government" - 2, "Deminicatives" - 1, "Centre" - 14, Agrarian Party - 0, NDP - 3, People's Choice - 1, non-fractional - 7. Dear colleagues, calm down. Calm down, we need to solve technical issues. Dear colleagues! I'm going to the "Race" system. How long do we need to make a secret vote? Five minutes? Don't you need anything? Yes, then please, I'd like it not to be fixed. The main thing is that the board doesn't have to be fixed by someone who votes. Ready? Yes, please. Then I put to the vote draft decree number 5432-1 of the Supreme Council decree on the events that took place in the election of the city head of Mukacheva Zakarpatska District. The project was introduced by the People’s Deputy School. [[13:10:32]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I can't show by factions. Ivan Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! I'm explaining to John Alexanderovich that the board doesn't show because the board shouldn't show, because it wouldn't be a secret ballot. If the board works, you can see every nest that works. I'll bet you a vote on the Bill of Order number 5432-3. This is a draft decree made by a group of national deputies, which was reported here by the national deputy Gavrish. Please vote. [[13:11:31]] For the 250. The draft decision was adopted for number 5432-3. What is the reason for the break? I'd like you to write it down, three minutes, who wants to say it. Let me explain. Please, three minutes. The oil man, the likeness of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Do you think a closed vote is really closed? Let's vote with an open vote and no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u101	Please, Podobedov, get ready for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u102	Please pass the word to the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u103	Which hare, Volodymyr? Please, Vladimir Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u104	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Even though the vote didn't take place the way "our Ukraine" wanted to, I want to inform you all that even when the vote was made, the national deputy King Victor of the faction "our Ukraine" voted as foreign faction cards. That is how we were brought up today to be honest, open, and truthful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u105	Please, Mr. Cranwell. Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! Both votes should not be considered normal, adequate. After the first vote that went on, it was put immediately without any pauses, the eyes of a clear explanation of what was going on. Many deputies have not been able to identify themselves. After the second vote. Nor can it be considered normal, adequate, for the reason that the decision made by a group of deputies in charge of Havrish provides for items that are, in any case, the responsibilities of those structures that are offered to carry them out. They must carry them out independently of the Supreme Council’s decrees. Therefore, I believe that both votes should be lifted and a vote taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u107	Please, Rudzkowski. After that replica, the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Stanislaw Nikolayenko, and I ask all the national deputies to make a donation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I thank Mikola Rudzikowski, and I really ask my colleagues to fill out the boxes that we will send to the families of our dead boy in Iraq. Now for the second question. I would like to address all our deputies today and say that today the issue of the honour and dignity of our Parliament is being discussed. If we do not vote in favour of the ruling that is proposed here and which has won 224 votes in Mukachevo, then we sin against the price on a market day when we cannot stop lawlessly from joining the national deputies of Ukraine. How, then, can we turn to the electorate, and how can the electorate turn to us to obey the law? I beg you, let us today, on this judgment day, support the order of both Mukachevo and Iraq for the withdrawal of troops.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u110	Please, a line. People's Deputy King.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that I voted in the SDPU cards. Every MP has to vote for himself. If their deputies are not there, let them find out who they gave the cards to. That's the first one. It's different. There is a regime of secret ballots. And from where can they say he didn't vote for others. So it's not a secret ballot then. So I'm simplifying all of this, and I think it's just an excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, according to the statement of the People's Government Group and the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, a break of 30 minutes is announced until 13.45.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Maybe we can confirm the judges and then continue our discussions? Oh, no? Yes, please, the Cooking Word. And prepare those who took a break to inform you what you wanted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, since three draft decrees have been made on a matter that has been discussed, the Rules should treat the voting that took place on the draft number 5432-3 as one that is accepted as a basis. Because you can't generally make any draft decisions in case there are alternative projects. So in the order of the legislative initiative and on behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine" I am making an amendment to this decision, which was adopted on the basis of which to include paragraph one of the draft decrees made by the Deputy School. The first paragraph should be inserted into the decision adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u115	Please, three minutes, Shufrich from the initiators who took the break. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, in fact, today there is a very difficult situation in the room, we are discussing a very difficult, ambiguous issue. We've made every possible compromise today. Today, I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that you and I both know it, and everyone who can hear us now. During the constitutional reform process, we agreed that, in order not to be accused of anything else, we should follow the rules clearly. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that yesterday, after we discussed the issue, after we had considered the matter, unfortunately, we voted in favour of decisions that were not decided upon by our committee of law, I'm not talking about the committees of profile anymore. Understanding the urgent need for the question raised and, indeed, agreeing with what our colleagues have suffered, and we cannot leave it out of consideration, we went to vote on yesterday's rulings without proper formulation and without the decisions of the profiling committees. Although I would like to remind you that before midnight we voted here on the Law on Elections of People's Deputies, clearly following the Rules at the very request of members of the faction "Our Ukraine". During the vote of the Law on Elections to Local Councils and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, we also voted until nine o’clock in the evening, following the rules of the Rules. Dear colleagues, yesterday we deliberately went to break the rules of exclusive because there was a question that was primarily concerned with our fellow Ukrainian national MPs. Today we have violated the Rules again, and I want to draw your attention to this. We voted in favour of decisions that were not passed through the committee. Dear colleagues, we took up the issues that we discussed yesterday and today, and we made a decision. The question is considered closed, the decision comes into force on the day of its adoption, and we do not even have to wait for it to be made public. Dear colleagues, in front of us we have many different issues that are important to Ukraine. Let's work, not block work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, there is a need, I see, to exchange thoughts. Please sign up for five minutes. Please explain. Five minutes. Cosaczenko, after him Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u119	Who? Please, it's Gabrieluk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u120	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Since we have been in Parliament for more than six months, it has been political issues, not those. By adopting the bills that our electorate needs today, and I think that, as an apophet in the end, we have come to those events, the result of this political struggle and opposition in Parliament is the Mukachev ruling. And I think that today we need to find an opportunity to compromise on this issue and return to the consideration of these regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u121	Please, Gavrish, prepare Sovkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I think the ruling has been voted out, and we need to focus now on a procedure that will allow us to get as much real information as possible about the possibility of the Supreme Council making any decision. Let's conclude better that the ruling that was passed before the last vote -- 250 with something in it -- was to vote in general and immediately, and in the vote of the last ruling, there was no objection that it voted in general. So I suggest we move on to the work of the Supreme Council in accordance with the agenda. On May 11, the Conciliation Council decided to hear the matter on Tuesday, May 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u123	Please, Sovkovich. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u124	You know, in major districts, they all had slogans. I had a slogan: "Health, well-being, hope." Hope in the understanding of the population is the hope that it can change power, or the party, or the leadership that allows crime, violates legislation or violates the Constitution. As a result, in Mukachevo, I see that my slogan will no longer have hope. So I think we have to bet, and we need to not just be determined to ask the whole question of what happened in Mukachevo. And, Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you to make your decision again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u125	Please, Boki. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u126	Please give the floor to Deputy Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u127	Please, Lucenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u128	Honorable National MPs. People's MP Lucenko, socfraccia. I'm sorry to have to talk like that. Members, I apologize. I would ask Adam Ivanovich not to turn Ukraine into a way I've just tried to do. Put the order to the vote again. And I'm speaking to all the people's deputies with one word. First we beat up the socialists -- and we swallowed it, we all kept quiet. Now we've beaten "Our Ukraine" -- we're silent. I'm absolutely convinced, unfortunately, that if we don't change the situation in the country, there's going to be a turn and agrarians and NDPs and so on and so forth. That's why I love you. Only the law and punishment of those who violate it can protect us. Let's at least make a precedent to hold criminal criminals accountable for crimes in front of MPs. If they are not responsible, who will protect Grandma or who will protect normal work after all? Let's gather all our courage, forget about Medvedchuk and vote for our conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u129	Please, Pauline. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u130	Pass the word to Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u131	Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u132	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! For you and me, the main thing is not just to list legislation that will have no consequences, but for you and me, when we feel responsible, we need to resolve the question, we need to renew the Constitution and the legislative field in Mukachev, we need to protect the country from rapes like Medvedczuk and the company. That is why, honourable colleagues, we demand that we vote on the decision with the additions made by our national deputy by our faction, Andrew Schlell. And this will be the first step towards ridding our country of the disgrace it is now in. And that will protect future presidential elections. There's a lot of people in this room who think they're gonna be candidates. It will protect the Ukrainians' right to choose who they vote for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-04-22-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you again. You and I have put three draft decrees to the vote. One of them won the required number of votes. The next one did not get the required number of votes. The third decision also raised the required number of votes, 250. You can check the transcript, I said, "the order accepted." I want to let you know what we've accepted, because it's probably not just our radios, and we don't know what we've accepted. We've made, I think, a balanced decision to really, here, as the proposals came out, maybe on the 12th, maybe on the 11th, when we start working here again, to call the heads of law enforcement and to hear their information about the execution of the tasks given to them by both the President of Ukraine and the assignments we gave them yesterday, yesterday and today by our decision. Therefore, once again the proposals and proposals of the people’s representative Lucenka have no legal basis, since the ruling has already been adopted. A break of 16 hours is announced.
