ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:18]] Registered -258 A total of 258 national deputies were registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues. The factions? Please. If you insist, I'll read it. "Our Ukraine" is 0. No, it's the vote. Please sign up for the board, please. They're about to sign up. Oh, on the right, I'm looking, dear colleagues, I'm sorry. A hundred. "Ukraine" is 0. "Our Ukraine" - 100, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, faction of Communists - 59, SDPU - 0, "Trud Ukraine" - 0, "National agrarian" - 18, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Union" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 15, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 6, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, "Afterfractional" - 16. Dear colleagues, a draft law on the approval of the living minimum for 2005 is under consideration. Second reading. Registration number 6032. Committee, please. Who will report? It's written that Hara will report. You don't? So we'll discuss the document. It's the second reading, my esteemed colleagues. So, honorary colleagues, take the table, let's go to the repairs. The first amendment is partially taken into account in the final positions. Who insists on this amendment? Please, Pinzenik as the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! According to the Lifetime Minimum Act, it has to calculate the rate of consumer price rise. At the end of the year, inflation, a government figure, was down 40 percent, and it was 40 percent higher. Raise official statistics this year, inflation is much higher than government estimates. And if you look at stores, there's a militiaman standing next to each of them, instead of catching a criminal, holding retail prices. That's why Victor Yushchenko, Victor Pinzenic, is being corrected, which takes into account the real price change, which provides for a minimum of 423 bracelets, not 382 bracelets, as proposed by the government. I ask the honourable deputies to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Amendment 1. The contents of this amendment have just been explained by the People’s Deputy Pinzenik. [[16:05:49]] For-189 Correction not counted. Amendment No.2. Boris Bespallian, are you insisting on her? Please, Boris Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u4	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block. Dear colleagues! The thing is that the cost of living is a calculated amount, not an emotional one. At the time it was approved, there were some prices in the first reading, and today prices for, especially, food products increased considerably. I won't say who's to blame, even though everyone knows the government is to blame. Now the second part. Now, please listen to the words "alive minimum" -- that's the minimum that people can live for, not the way some people live for, not the way some live for, or die for. So given that you have to live in any territory for this money, and I have the privilege of representing the city of Kiev, where prices are slightly higher, so I think even the offer offered by colleagues is a bit low. I suggest you set it to 500 bracelets and ask everyone for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! I'm voting for the amendment by Boris Bespalogo's friend as soon as he made that amendment. [[16:07:27]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 94, the Ukraine is 0, the Communist faction is 51, the SDPU is 0, the People's Government is 1, the Ukrainian Labour Party is 0, the People's Agrarian Party is 10, the SPO is 11, the Timoshenko-3, the Union is 0, the only Ukraine is 0, the NDP, the industrials and entrepreneurs are 3, the Centre is 4, the non-fractional is 8. Amendment number four, please. Is Stanislaw Nikolaynko here? None. The fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth repairs of Boris Bespalogo. We're going to vote for everyone right now. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! I'd like to make an argument about all of these amendments right now because they're one-of-a-kind. I still don't think everyone's just focused after the break, because the minimum of living we need to set, without it we can't accept the state budget. Although the government's draft budget is not suitable anywhere, Ukraine needs a budget. So the proposal of the faction of Victor Yushchenk's Block is the following. We now have to vote for a realistic minimum of living for which people can exist. That's the first one. And the second. The minimum of living is not really related to any theoretical budget calculations; it is linked and tied only to the minimum consumer basket for a food and non - food group. And since such a minimum is not less than 500 dollars today, I, dear friends, am sure to vote and not starve our people. Dear colleagues, I make the amendments, they are the same - fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth amendments to Boris Bespalog’s vote. [[16:09:32]] For 212 Unaccounted for. The ninth amendment. Peter Cibenko, please. Turn on the microphone. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, in the program, the pre-election program of the President of Ukraine, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, clearly describes the subsistence minimum, which he believes is 792 bracelets and there is a mechanism for achieving this figure. I'm proposing as an intermediate step towards this sum to confirm the subsistence minimum for the non-working 500 dollars. I think it should provide at least some survival in today's conditions -- conditions of sharp rise, literally price hikes. So, Honorable Fellows, I urge you to support that indicator that is in the ninth amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A vote is taken on amendment number 9, the national deputy of Cibenko, the author of this amendment. [[16:10:55]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 87, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 6, SPO - 17, Block Timoshenko - 17, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 6, “NDP” and “PPU” - 0, “Deminicatives” and “The People’s Government” - 0, “O” - 5. Dear colleagues, all the amendments urged by the national MPs have been voted on. I'm asking the government, please. Government position. Gdybenko Ivan Fedorovich. Right? First Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. One minute, I'll be right there. Just a minute. Microphone, please turn on the government stand. Press the button, please. Well, help me turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u9	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Social Policy and Work has worked out, I think, a normal addition to the bill and introduced the proposals for a second reading of the supplement. They apply to supplementing it with this minimum when it is approved in the proposed form. Introduce Ukraine's law to this in terms of increasing size. At least by the amount of taxes on the income of the natural person, that's what we're going to do. And now the commission is working, looking at food supplies and services to determine the minimum cost of living for the next year. And we're going to look with you at the minimum cost index if it changes so sharply. This is what I have to offer, to take into account what the Committee on Social Policy and Labour has done, and the government supports these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u10	For reasons of three minutes, please. Please sign up. Sign up for a minute. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, Boris Bespali, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I think there may have been some kind of misunderstanding. And I propose, first of all, to go back to reviewing the amendments to this bill and to support the subsistence minimum of 500 dollars. And please pass on the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u12	Viacheslav Kirilenko, 40 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u13	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear colleagues. As a member of the Committee on Social Policy, I have to say that not everyone has supported this table. Because the main basket of food and nonfood products is related to old prices. So 382 bracelets, as it stands now, is not a minimum of living. Now after a sharp price jump to live on, no social demographic group can. So I propose either to go back to the amendment vote, or to the government to propose calling off this bill and making a realistic - 432 bracelets at least a living minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u14	Please, Cibenka, follow Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u15	Please pass on the word to Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u16	Microphone, please, Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since most have left, not their Government, but our people, we are naturally forced to deal with those who are in the Hall, but have remained questions related to the establishment of a normal living minimum for people. But I would like to know the Government's point of view. Whether the Government considers the establishment of this indicator to be important. Why do I ask that? Just yesterday, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic said that he was confident that no important issue would be considered on the Supreme Council, but that there would be a demagogy. So these are the proposals made by the Government, is it demagogies or is it still an important issue? In this regard, what is the Government's view?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u18	Please, Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u19	Leonid Vernigora, Ukrainian Socialist faction. We concluded this morning’s session with the question of economic development, Adam Ivanovich. I'd have to, I didn't have a word to translate this issue into a matter of subsistence minimum. Because we needed to consider, not the economic development of Ukraine, but the plan to rebuild Ukraine's national economy after we had damaged it over the past ten years. So the Socialist faction of Ukraine and the candidate for President Alexander Moroz, we have officially submitted to the Supreme Council a minimum of twice what the government is offering. Why twice? Because the staples of today’s food, too much food, and meat tripled, and they double. So we propose and agree that it's going to be 409, and it's going to be 818 dollars at a minimum. And if you count the fuel and the others, then, of course, not less than a thousand dollars. So I suggest that the government put a new amount of living into the budget immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u20	Yes, dear colleagues, communication is over. The proposal was to vote on the amendments. The proposal was to vote on the amendments. I'll put her to the vote, get ready. And what Vernigor said, yes, Leonid Mikhailovich, it's good that you submitted, but you had to make corrections to the second reading, and here they could be counted. They're not here, your amendments, and there's a separate bill. As far as I know, you work on the same committee. Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting on the proposal of the National Deputies to return to the consideration of the amendments to the bill. Please vote. [[16:18:10]] For 230 So let's start at the beginning. But, dear colleagues, since the argument has already been, let's not waste time, let's just vote on the amendments. No objections? The first amendment here was argued by the People’s Deputy Pinzenik. Please vote. It's about increasing the cost of living. [[16:18:48]] For 233 Copy that. Here's the next one. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 99, "Ukrainian Regions" - 0, Communists - 56, SDPU - 0, "Urban Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 13, SPO - 19, Block Timoshenko - 18, "The Union" - 0, "The only Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 15, NDP and PPU - 3, "Deminicatives" - 0, "The Postfactional - 10. Dear colleagues, the following amendments by the National MP Bespalog are meant to replace the text that says "382 bracelets" with the text "500 bracelets." Please vote on all these amendments. [[16:19:53]] For 208 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 92, “Ukraine” - 0, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, “Urban Ukraine” - 0, National Agrarian Party - 6, SPO - 17, Block Timoshenko - 18, “Union” - 0, “Ukraine” - 0, “Centre” - 3, “NDP” - 3, “Deminicatives” - 0, “O” - 10. The amendment didn't go through. The amendments made by the Bespalog people's deputy are the sixth, seventh, eighth, where applicable, once again, to increase the amount proportionally to the increase in the subsistence minimum from 382 bracelets to 500 bracelets. All three amendments I'm putting to the vote. Vote, please. [[16:21:07]] For a hundred and Not accepted. And Zybenko's amendment: "The real living minimum, especially for non-working people, should be at least 500 bucks. Please vote. [[16:21:34]] For 186 Correction not accepted. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 63, "Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 59, Social Democrats, "Urban Ukraine" - 0, National Agrarian Party - 10, Socialists and Block Timoshenko - 19, "The Union", "One Ukraine" - 0, "Centre" - 4, NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs 3, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 9. So, my fellow Members, you and I, of all the amendments, supported the first amendment of the group of national MPs. With that amendment in mind, I am voting for acceptance. Gabrieluk, please, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u21	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to ask you, Adam Ivanovich, first of all, to clarify: do we properly vote that we do not participate in the balances of the “majority” when it is in fact about the adoption of the subsistence minimum necessary for the law necessary before the adoption of the budget necessary for our constituents, for our country, and in fact the fact that the factions of the so-called “majority” do not participate and do not take part in the vote? So maybe we'll just testify and make a decision about this, and then we'll decide whether to vote in favour or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u22	Well, make an offer that you'll decide to make. Each MP has the right to act as he deems necessary. Please sign up. Three minutes of vote and we'll vote. Please explain. Warming gives Bespalloma a word. Get ready, Shulsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u23	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address you with such a request. In fact, I am deeply sorry, and I think it's a pity that the amendments that I've proposed have not gone through and are in line with the amendments that Peter Stepanovich Cibenko has proposed. This is the exact same amendment as 500 bracelets. Next. I agree with the position of deputy Gabrieluk, we agree that people should know the positions of everyone without excluding factions. But the main motive that I think is driven by those responsible politicians who don't boycott the Supreme Council, but stayed in the Hall, it's still to improve people's lives. And from this point of view, what we did, although not completely, but raised the minimum of living is a good thing. That's why I'm asking everyone. To vote on this law in its entirety, and then to find out who? Why? Get out of the hall and stuff. God be with them, let us work properly without them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u24	Yes. Schulga. I can't see. Please. Please, Vernigora. Vernigori's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u25	Adam Ivanovich, well, I can understand the situation in the hall. I don't understand just how a coalition that, with the government in the conspiracies today, decided not to accept the minimum of living. I mean, most people want to lose their budget today. So, what minimum of living can we talk about in general for 2005? You listen to the factions left in the hall. Today, it is healthy, normal, as was the case with Ukraine, the amount of living minimum according to or proportionally appropriate to the prices that are now on the market. Today, we can't cut it down to twice the cost of living, and the 409 government that we're proposing hasn't gotten into the middle of our eyes, but he needs to see what's going on in the market. So it can't be less than 960 living minimum and socialists already offered, and you're saying is it in the amendment or not? Yes! The whole of Ukraine listens to us. There are only factions in the hall that wish for the good of Ukraine. So let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all those who have stepped out of the procedure have one thing to do, we must do everything we can to adopt this bill now as a matter of law. So I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law with those amendments that we voted for, the Act on the Approval of Living Minimum for 2005. Please vote. [[16:26:40]] For the 250. The factions. Our Ukraine is 100, the Ukraine is 0, the Communist faction is 58, the SDPU is 0, the Ukrainian labour force is 0, the National Agrarian Party is 20, the SPI is 20, the Timoshenko Block is 19, the Union is 0, the only Ukraine is 0, the Centre is 15, the NDP, the industrialists and entrepreneurs are 5, the Deminiciatives are the People's Government is 0, the Non-Factional is 13, the Law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! A draft law on the organs of justice is being announced for consideration. But before that, we need to consult. May I have your attention, Your Honor? A letter was received from the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Alexander Lavrinovich, saying: "In view of the need to understand and process the proposals made and the comments made at the Legal Policy Committee meeting on 14 September this year, the draft Law on the Law on the Judiciary was introduced by the National Deputies of the Road, Abdulini, Osika and I am asking that he be transferred to the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." [[From the hall. Don't hear it.]] Yuri Anatolyovich, Adam Ivanovich read. There was. What are some of the reasons for this? I would like to say again, the bill of the Law on the Judiciary is being reviewed, but the Minister of Justice of Ukraine has asked us to move the draft law to a later date. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the current Rules, we cannot simply remove a matter from the agenda of today's meeting of the Supreme Council by letter from the Minister or even the Prime Minister. Therefore, it takes the will of the national deputies to expel him. It is therefore necessary to consider the matter today and to make a proper decision on it in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the position of the Rules Committee. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please. Then Carmazin and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I don't think we should support this decision because it's understandable why the honourable minister asked questions. His factions, his adherents today are failing the work of the Supreme Council, and they want to put their interests in place on the backs of those national deputies who are working conscientiously despite the political conjuncture. So let them sit in the hall and vote on what they need. And if they never do, then Volodymyr Mikhailovich, according to the order approved by day. Just like that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u31	Thank you. Carmazine. And we'll figure it out now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u32	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have two suggestions. First. I refer to that committee that worked on this law on the organs of justice to the Committee of Legal Policy. The law is indeed seriously worked out. And that's really the law they're looking for. Another question that political passions don't give today, and you know very well that in order to break the minimum of living at the task of the so-called presidential candidate, whom Melnichenko has now announced as a press to destroy and so on, he has now made public to everyone. It's him. Of course, these factions break down. But the law has no suffering. So it's okay to move it first and second. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we ask you, 250 people have taken responsibility for the fate of the country, for the cost of living. Announce by factions who it is. Please. This fits the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the point is that Adam Ivanovich read, who and how many voices the faction gave. Well, please prepare, I'll read it again. It's not a problem. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Let's be clean to keep our relationship normal, I'll put to the vote the Ministry of Justice's request for transposition of the bill. Here comes the vote. Change the vote. Now I'm going to read the vote. "Our Ukraine" -100; "Ukrainian Regions" -0; Communist faction -58 for; SDPU(o), "Trud Ukraine" -0; National Agriculture -20; SPI -20; Timoshenko -19; "Union" -0; "Only Ukraine" -0; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -5; "Democratic Initiatives" -0; non-fractional -13. [[It's a vote for a bill on living minimum.]] Okay. Okay. All right, prepare for publication. I told them to get ready and look at the regulatory committee, to publish. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote the request of the Ministry of Justice to transpose the bill on the organs of justice, registration number 2152. [[16:33:18]] For-36 The decision is not taken. A draft law on the organs of justice is being announced for consideration. Please, who's going to report? Mikola Katernichuk. Who will report from the committee? So I'll report it. Let's go to the amendments, dear fellows. See what adjustments are not taken into account and who will insist on their amendments. 11th Kirichenko. Don't insist. Landik the 17th. No, it's not. Rascal on the 19th. I can't see. Insomnia, 24th Amendment. Give me a chance. Dear colleagues, who insists on their amendments that are unaccounted for? Boris Bespali, please, what an adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u34	The 51st amendment, it refers to this situation. The proposed text provides that the authorities of the State executive service must enforce the decisions of the courts and other authorities and officials. I mean, I have serious doubts. What decisions other than those of the courts are carried out by the executive force. I don't think that's such a legal approach. Only judicial decisions, not administrative decisions, should be made by the enforcement service. For example, police have now been assigned to regulate prices, to walk in markets. I don't think that's a legal approach. So I ask you to accept this offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u35	It's the 51st Boris Bespalogo vote. This is page 12. [[16:35:34]] For-98 Correction not accepted. What other amendments, please? Who else insists on repairs? Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u36	Dear colleagues. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." I understand our uplifting and to some extent the euphoric state, because we've done a very good job right now -- we've raised 50 bracelets of living to a minimum. It's not enough, but as a first step, it's a good thing. But there are other important things. In particular, the Law on the organs of justice. Because it is clear to everyone today that the Ukrainian judicial system does not doze, it simply sleeps tightly where human rights are to be protected. And today, our people are poor not only because they are mismanagement of government, but also because they are insolvent. So I ask you very much to support the amendment that I propose to the law of the judiciary. It suggests that government authorities be involved in the training of professionals. I think it's wrong, and we see what this intervention does. So I'm asking 118 to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u37	I would like to vote on the amendment of National MP Boris Bespalogo 118. This is page 27. [[16:37:16]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Boris Yakovitch, are you still making any adjustments? Boris Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u38	Yes, I consider it a principle of amendment 305 to article 30, which is on page 73. The issue is that the Minister of Justice has a personal responsibility to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to the President of Ukraine. I think this double personal responsibility is an accurate illustration of the folk tale that a few babysitters have a child without an eye. This is really a form of irresponsibility. And I think everyone has already realized that there are many problems in Ukraine and that we actually have the authoritarian dictatorship of the President. I think ministers have a personal responsibility to the leadership, to the Cabinet of Ministers, not to the President. Therefore, I propose that the words "President of Ukraine" be deleted so that the minister bears his personal responsibility to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u39	Amendment 305 of Boris Bespalogo, page 73, is put to the vote. [[16:38:47]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. What other amendments, please? Boris Bespali, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u40	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." The 359th amendment applies to this. In this case, it's said that in the area of the Ministry of Justice, it's proposed to refer to, you know, other businesses, institutions and organizations. I think that our law enforcement agencies and some specialized authorities don't have time to engage in their direct responsibilities because they do a lot of business. And here it is proposed that the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice, think! had the right to run other businesses, institutions, and organizations! Well, typical business-holding. I think that if the government of Yanukovich did so in practice, it does not mean that such things should be legalized. And I'm proposing to remove from the Ministry of Justice the management of businesses, institutions and organizations, it's not their job to do business.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u41	Honorary Colleagues, Amendment 359, by Boris Bespali, page 89. [[16:40:23]] For 106 Correction not accepted. What are the other adjustments? Please, Boris Bespali, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u42	Well, the 365th amendment. But I'd like to take this opportunity right now, this is the last one, I'm looking at so many things that should not have gone through, they're still involved, and, of course, in that way, in my view, we can't take the law as a whole. So I ask, even if we accept it in the second reading, we do not generally accept it. With regard to the 365th amendment that relates to this, I propose to remove from the final positions such a story, namely, quote, "Normal legal acts to bring them into conformity with this law operate in a part that does not conflict with this law. But only the Constitutional Court can determine what is contrary to a law that does not conflict. Such standards and things, we're just bringing chaos into the legislation. Therefore, I propose that this rule be removed from the law, and if it is supported in the second reading, it will not be supported in general, because it will simply be the law on injustice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended by 365 Boris Bespalogo, page 91. [[16:41:53]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Who else insists on their amendments? I can't see. Please, Ministry of Justice, position of the Ministry of Justice on this bill. Anatoly Pavlovich Hare
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Justice does not support any of these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u45	No, I mean, we didn't vote on the amendments. How you view the law in the way it is now before the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u46	The position of the Ministry of Justice, however, I will allow, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to remind once again, was not to question today's future system of justice and to transpose this bill. As far as our position is concerned, the issues that Karmazin’s national deputy spoke about are well worked out. This involved the registration of real estate rights. If national MPs support the need for preservation in the justice system of the penitentiary system, it may be accepted in this way, despite our request to postpone consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u47	Thank you. I would like to say, dear colleagues, there are people here who are prepared for the adoption of the law. Your request would have to be addressed to another institution. I put your proposal to the vote. The Supreme Council did not support it, unfortunately. Although I supported the transposition of this bill. Dear colleagues, according to the suggestions that have been made, I will put it to the vote. The first is the proposal for a profile committee to vote: adopt the bill of the law on the organs of justice in the second reading and in general. Registration number 2152. Please vote. [[16:43:59]] For-44 The decision is not taken. I'll put Boris Bespalogo's proposal to the vote. Accept in the second reading. Are you filming? Then, if I'm going to rework, I'm going to vote on the second reading of the law on the organs of justice, the registration number is 2152. [[16:44:38]] For-76 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Decision on the Cancellation of Decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption on the basis of Ukraine's Business Laws in Ukraine is announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, here and some of you are speaking to Karmazin, and representatives of other factions are speaking, and radio listeners are speaking. In fact, they're very curious about what you and I adopted in the previous bill when we voted on setting the limit on living minimum. I'm informing. This is for you, too, because you know it because you deliberately voted, but for our radio audience. The Minister’s office suggested that for the following year a minimum of one person’s living allowance of 382 bracelets per month be approved. You and I voted an amendment, a group of national MPs, got this amendment 233 votes in full, and the whole law got 250 votes in order to set the living minimum for 2005 to 432 bracelets. I mean, unfortunately, they just increased it by 50 bucks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! A draft regulation on the repeal of decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption on the basis of draft Ukrainian laws amending the Ukrainian Act on Enterprises in Ukraine is being announced. Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u50	Gurenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today we are discussing a question that I think should find 100% support in this room. What is it? The point is that since the drafts that have been tabled today, laws that are at different stages of the debate have been subject to changes in existing legislation. [[These are registration numbers 1216, 2581, 3286]] The point is that the master code of Ukraine was adopted. In accordance with chapter 9, paragraph 2, of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Master Code, the Law of Ukraine " About businesses in Ukraine," which was proposed by the above-mentioned bills before they were amended, it became powerless and does not actually work since 1 January 2004. In view of what the committee said, he decided to recommend to our meeting. First, repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3 April 2003 to adopt a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Business Act of Ukraine. [[Registration number 1216]] The other one. Repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of 22 May 2003 on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Enterprises in Ukraine. [[Registration number 2581]] Finally, to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20 November 2003 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Economic Code on the Management of State Enterprises and Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Enterprises in Ukraine, registration number 3286. So there's a lot of what's supposed to be a fact, and it's actually about bringing legislation into line with the changes that have happened in our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u51	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, there is no need to discuss it here. The question is clear. So I ask you to mobilize so that we can vote. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a Decision on the annulment of decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption on the basis of draft laws of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Act on Businesses in Ukraine, registration number 1216-P. Please vote. [[16:50:18]] For 230 Decision taken. Honorable fellow workers! What, what? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Here, two factions turned to the Centre and the Socialist Party faction demanding a recess, according to regulations, for 30 minutes. Let's obviously do it this way. Since these factions are registered and work here, I can't help but say a word. I'd like to ask if there's anything you'd like to take a break from here, make an appropriate message so that we can continue our work. "Centre" and socialist. The faction of the Socialist Party. To whom do you entrust? King Viktor Mikhailovich's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the current mode lasts for the last few days. The agony of power has gone to hysteria. Today, the whole country has become an arena for the repression of those on the side of the People's President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. Those who are called upon to protect people have become violators and provokers. Today, the superiors and law enforcement officials give antinational orders, serve criminal authorities. In the last few days, the Ukrainian newscast has become a trail similar to that of the Pinocchio Path in Chile. On October 16, the police fabricated a case against activists. Yaroslava Goddunka. 17 attempts to conduct an unauthorized search at the Kyiv-Magilian Academy. October 18th, the mass arrests in Chernig, the students of the student's Wich. 19 arrests of student Ludmila Timoshenko on the third day after she performed at the student's Evening on the Podola. On the same day, the kidnapping of militiamen in civilian Anatoly Zawinowski, Mikolaiyev's press secretary, Victor Yushchenk's constituency. So today the authorities have shown us what they see about the future of our country. Today’s Prime Minister’s team has planned to turn the Ukrainian people into an unspeakable flock, Ukraine into a state of fear, humiliation, lawlessness, and poverty. Today, we can say for sure that nothing in power will work out if it doesn't turn out to be an illiterate professor. We're talking to law enforcement personnel, and we've got days left before the regime goes down. Keep in mind the oath, do not obey criminal orders, for those who give them to you today will flee to Cyprus and abroad, and you will be accountable to the people. The People's Forces Coalition says it will protect all the honest people who are currently being oppressed by the police and bandit authorities. We are fighting for human rights and will not give up in this fight. We also assure, we leave the right to a public protest within the framework of the legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you again. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you once again for the correctness of your remarks, please. Let's make sure we don't have any grounds, no charges. I'm asking you, Your Honor, if you have the facts, to speak of the facts. Please. We must now take a decision on the outcome of the Government Day when we discussed the new orientations of Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union in relation to the enlargement of the EU. We've been spending Government Day, discussing this issue, the draft decree. You've been given it. Chef, please, Roman Mikhailovich. I'm just asking you to pay attention, dear colleagues, that we're not going to have a discussion, because we've been discussing this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Let me remind you that on September 14, this year, the Supreme Council held a Government Day devoted to the issue of new directions for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union. As a result, a draft decision is being prepared, which is proposed to your mind. The project proposes to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers to intensify its work in many ways in cooperation with the EU, to intensify its work with States, members of the EU on cross-border cooperation, to intensify cooperation with States, EU members on the fight against terrorism, organised crime and so on. The Supreme Council is invited to focus on the issue of bringing Ukraine's legislation closer to EU legislation, as well as effective parliamentary monitoring of the implementation of measures aimed at the implementation of Ukraine-EU action plan. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u55	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on a draft Supreme Council decision to adopt as a Supreme Council decision on information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on new directions for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union in relation to the enlargement of the European Union. Registration number 6196. Please vote. [[16:56:18]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Yes, Carmazine. He says it's an alternative, but I still have an alternative project. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, let's base your position and give me this project. The Secretariat, please find out why an alternative project was not submitted in due course when it was registered. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency. Dear National Deputies! Bill 6196-1 is an alternative draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I see that not everyone is ready to accept that draft decision, but we need to make a decision. Let me put it in a nutshell here, what's different about it? With a view to protecting Ukraine's national interests and further developing relations between Ukraine and the EU at a qualitatively new level, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: firstly, the Cabinet of Ministers on the new directions for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union in relation to the enlargement of the EU to take note of the aim of adapting legislation to the European Union's legislation in order to ensure that Ukraine's legal system is in line with the EU's legal system in order to achieve its membership in the European Union, taking into account the criteria set out by the European Union to the States that intend to join it and define mechanisms, stages and timetables for the achievement of these systems to the Supreme Council in each Committee of the Supreme Council, to create a subcommittee to which the powers of which it is intended to enter into and define mechanisms, stages and timetables for the achievement of these systems in each Committee of the Supreme Council, to create a subcommittee whose powers are included in the preparation of the bills of conformity with the international rules of conformity with the law. By the way, this has been done in many countries around the world. Next. Create a coordinating council on the issues of the state-wide programme for the adaptation of the laws of Ukraine and the European Union to the Supreme Council, composed of the Head of the Coordination Council, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Deputy Head of the Committee on European Integration, the members of the Council of Heads of those subcommittees of the Supreme Council, whose mandate includes the drafting of bills on European integration and compliance with international law. To approve the 2005-2010 work plan, which consists of successive stages of achieving the degree of compliance of Ukraine's legislation with EU legislation, to set objectives, tasks and deadlines for the implementation of the programme, and to set a period for them. The mandate to review the proposal for amending the programme, to define a list of legislative work to approve the annual plan of action, to provide in the drafts of the State budget for the financing of measures implemented by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to set priorities for the development and adaptation of the regulations and legal acts of Ukraine and the European Union, and to translate into Ukrainian terms and acts, taking into account the partnership agreement and cooperation agreement between Ukraine and the European Community and their member States of 14 June 1994, to agree with the European Parliament to avoid discrepancies and different interpretations, the mechanism for the translation of the legislative acts of the European Union's legislative system of legislative legislation, to establish an act-of-law service in the Office of the Supreme Council of Juridical Law, which includes its legal framework and interpretation. And here is the commission of legal service and other services and the government of Ukraine: to ensure the creation and functioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! To keep this place completely clean, I am putting another project to the vote, a project introduced by national deputy Yuri Karmazin on information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the new directions for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union in connection with the enlargement of the European Union. Registration number 6196-1. [[17:00:38]] For-136 The decision is not taken. A draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the governments of the great family and European society, registration number 5697, secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster Yuri Petrovich Solomatin is under review. Please, Yuri Petrovich. If you don't mind, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! On March 11, 2004, an international tender was announced to build a new security. over the destroyed fourth block of the Chernobyl AES. And on October 25th, it's planned to get technical offers from potential investors for this project. After assessing the bids with the winners, contracts will be made. This contract, in accordance with the rules of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, can only be concluded if the EBRD, the fund manager of the Chernobyl shelter fund, guarantees the financial security of the contract. The 2004 refinement of the international project’s financial estimates, the project’s coverage plan, justified the need to raise additional funds. If in 1997, it is estimated that these requirements amounted to $758 million, the latest expert estimate is one billion, 91 million dollars. The issue of additional funding to address the problems in the facility has been being addressed at the assemblies of donor countries and the working group of the Great Seven countries for over a year. But the final decisions on this matter were no longer made. Therefore, the draft decree, which is suggested in your mind, provides for the following. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the parliaments of the Great Seven countries, the donor countries of the Chernobyl Protection Fund and the European Parliament: firstly, to support Ukraine's efforts to overcome the social consequences of the closure of the Chernobyl AES and to contribute to the implementation of projects for the creation of additional jobs for Chernobyl AES workers released after the closure of the station, and the inhabitants of Slavotic; secondly, to demonstrate a willingness to seek more effective and effective mechanisms to jointly monitor the implementation of international Chernobyl projects, to address any technical or financial problems that impede the achievement of the project's impact. And the third. To facilitate the arrival of additional financial resources to complete the plan of action for the shelter and implementation of the integrated waste management system as one of the critical elements of the removal of Chernobyl’s AES from the operation and conversion of the shelter into an ecologically safe system. So here's our propositions, this is the content of what we say. On October 21st, at the extraordinary assembly of the donor countries of the Chernobyl Foundation, and October 27-29, at the meeting of the working group of the "big seven" countries, the issues will be discussed further. In this regard, and in view of this, the issue of the allocation of funds for financial assistance to other nations is decided by parliaments. Therefore, it is appropriate to consider and accept such a reference to the measures to be taken at the end of October. The draft of the appeal is complemented by the proposal of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, ministries, other central executive bodies and international organisations. On behalf of our committee, please support the draft reference in the proposed edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u59	Thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues, let me inform you that we have considered this issue after we have worked on it. I want to read you a list of the names of the national MPs who. Fellow dignitaries introduced the draft document: Rudenko, Osika, Onichuk, Bagraev, Krawczuk, Sharov, Boki, Turkinov, Topoloov, Sharov, Vaszczuk. After discussion, this document was extensively developed. And we have every reason to put it to the vote and accept it, because it doesn't cause any such sharp objections. Don't you have any other ideas? Then I put to the vote the committee's proposal, please pay attention, to the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the governments of the countries of the "great seven" and the European Society. [[Registration number 5697]] Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:07:04]] For 232 It's been decided. A draft Law amending article 77 of the Ukrainian Code of Masters is being announced for consideration. [[on Case-Bordering Enterprises]] Reporter of the First Deputy Minister of Economy and Euro-Integration of Voschevsky Valeriy Mikolayovich. Please, Valery Mikolaiovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! A draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Masters is proposed for consideration. The draft Law is designed to bring Ukraine’s master code into line with the provisions of the Civil and Budgetary Code. The project is intended to exclude the situation of part seven of article 77 of the Master Code, which states that in the event of a lack of funds at the disposal of a company, a State in a person whose authority it belongs to is liable for the obligation of a criminal enterprise. At that. a position that a criminal enterprise is responsible for its obligations under its management. According to article 4 of the Code of Masters, property and personal immaterial relationships are governed by the Civil Code, and financial relations with entities involved in the formation and control of budgets at all levels are regulated by the Code of Budgets. Thus, the enforcement of the obligations of a casino enterprise should be carried out in accordance with the codes and not require further regulation. The adoption of this draft law will facilitate the regulatory order of the activities of the penal enterprises. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u61	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. In the position of the committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u62	Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'll take three positions with your permission. The first position of the committee, which by a majority of votes decided to support the bill. But I can't help but say that the Committee on Finance, I don't see it here. Yes, there are its members. stated that changes to this law could only be made since 2006. And the second warning is that a group of national MPs, national Communist MPs, members of our committee, thinks that this law should not be passed because its adoption today weakens the position of the penal institutions. Today, the interests of the factory, of the casino factory, are somehow forced to stand up for the department, because the damage, and now we know, I'm just going to remind you of the story, the last story with Ruslan planes, when just out of thought, on groundless grounds, arrested our state property and wasted months on it. This practice will continue because it will not protect, not the embassy, which is abroad in the event of the alienation of our business abroad. So once again, the committee's decision to support, the Committee's decision on finance -- from 2006, a group of deputies thinks we shouldn't do that. We will be determined by the vote of Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, we may then put to the vote whether the Supreme Council should be defined as a basis or not. For reasons, please Pinzenic. Motive nigger. It's Carmazin's motive. Please, Victor Pinzenik, to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the Communist faction personally, because this law must be upheld. What does the current law contain? That the obligation of the penal companies is covered by the budget when it comes to speaking the human language. Today's law says, "Dear boys, steal more, you'll be covered by the state budget." Therefore, the repeal of this standard just closes the holes of abuse. Because as far as grants or subsidies are concerned, we can make this decision in the budget. So I'm turning to the Communist faction to support the law that opens up the possibility of dissipating state funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u65	Please, Cherniak, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, the question is not as simple as it seems. I generally support my colleague Pinzenic's offer. But even so, the State is obliged to make commitments to the casinos, and it is the owner. I understand that it is necessary to avoid the looting of government funds. But we need to build a system of governance that is effective in corporate rights of the state, state-owned casino enterprises. That's why there's a question. If you place it narrowly, as Pinzenik puts it, then you need to support the bill. I'll probably vote that way. But if you put it in a broader context, you have to think about how to oblige the state to take responsibility for the execution of businesses and make them work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u67	Yuri Carmazin, then Mironenko Victor. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u68	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Indeed, this law must be adopted from a completely different point of view, but it must be adopted only in the first reading to produce some kind of safety net. I mean, the new edition of part 7 of Article 77 of the Master Code in the new one is going to look like. And according to her, the penalty firm is only responsible for the funds at its disposal. And those positions are excluded, according to which an authority whose administration includes a criminal enterprise will assume full subsidiary responsibility for its obligations. True, there is danger. The danger is why I say that in the first reading it can be accepted and accepted, because standards have to be harmonized with the Master Code, the Civil and the Budget Code. And now they're not in agreement. The danger is exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u69	Thank you. Victor Mironenko. Microphone, please turn on the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u70	Fifth District, Mironenko, Communist faction. I think that this bill should not be supported for a number of reasons. First, the State seeks to remove its responsibility and as a result will be affected again by the same workers. For then you will see, if God does not give the Supreme Council a law, there will be a problem with wages, and so on, someone will answer to the workers. Second. The destruction of the self-sector for the purpose of privatizing and robbing the people is envisaged by the bill. Bring the executed enterprises to bankruptcy and privatize. And those from our Ukraine who have just spoken to communists are calling for actual privatization and economic gain. But there's a third. The Secretary should be strengthened by the example of the Soviet Union in Italy, France, in the United Kingdom. It works for the whole economy, for the whole people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, let's find the gold inside, put the vote on the ground, and then we'll figure it out. Let's take it, and then let's take a look. Maybe we'll have other arguments for or against this document. I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee on adoption based on the draft law amending article 77 of the Ukrainian Code of Conduct on Criminal Procedures. Registration number 5504. Please vote. [[17:16:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. What will be the proposal of the committee, Stanislav Ivanovich? Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u72	Gurenko, head of the committee. I think in view of all the thoughts that have been expressed here, given the situation, it would be appropriate to re-read it and later, maybe at the end of this month or at the end of our cadence take another look, the more time we have. This year, he simply cannot be accepted from the regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal is to re-read this project. It is about voting, that is, reiterating the draft Law amending article 77 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. Registration number 5504. [[17:17:29]] For 212 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the bill is rejected, "for" is 212. Well, there are no votes, so can I? The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" is 94, "Regions of Ukraine" is zero, Communist factions are 41, SDPU is zero, People's Agrarian is 20, SPI is 16, Timoshenko is 13, Alliance is zero, Center is 15, NDP, industrials, entrepreneurs are 4, Democratic Initiatives is 0, non-fractional is 9. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration in connection with the adoption of the Civil and Family Codes. Reporter: Ukrainian National Deputy Stanislav Anatoliyovich Kosinov, please. A member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergey Ivanovich Slabenko, will be the focal point. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u74	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This law aims to harmonize the provisions of the Family and Civil Code with those of other regulations, in particular the Citizenship Act and the Code of Civil Procedure. It is a matter of reducing the 15-year-old to 14 years of age, with regard to the right of the child to consent to the acceptance of nationality, as well as the withdrawal from citizenship, as well as certain provisions, in particular article 101 of the Civil Procedure Code. This provision is of a technical agreement. I think that it is necessary simply to bring together certain rules of different laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u75	Thank you, Stanislav Anatolyovich. Slabenko Sergey Ivanovich, please position the committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u76	Having considered at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the Adoption of Civil and Family Codes, registration number 3630 of 17.06. In 2003, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kosinov, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it accept as a basis, as well as that it should be entrusted with the task of working on the proposed bill and submitting it to the Supreme Council on second reading. The findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration are appropriate, which, in its conclusion of 16.09.2003, suggests that it be used in preparing for the second reading of the bill 2420. The implementation of the bill does not require State budget spending. In general, there are conclusions received from the Cabinet of Ministers that are positive, which are considered necessary to bring legislation into line with the adoption of the new Civil Code and the new Family Code of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the matter, it is actually a technical matter for us to bring the Civil and Family Codes of Ukraine into line. So maybe now let's put the committee's proposal to a vote, take it as a basis, then let's see again what questions we're going to have. Well, please, with motive. Then. Which One Urges? Carmazine with motive, please. Sergey Ivanovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u78	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, we have to take it right away in both the first and the second readings, because it's completely technical. That's the first question. And the second question. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing you as the head of the Supreme Council Commission for election monitoring. Now there are teams in the administrative order in Lugansk and Donetsk district to all the directors of the mine: 150 people from each mine to go to Kiev in support of Yanukovic. There's a standoff at the state's expense. The shafts don't work, they just give it to 150 people to go to Kiev right now. What is it?Oh, my God! I ask you to contact the President immediately as the guarantor of the Constitution, to contact Kuzmuk, who is now in charge of what they should do. Under the word "anyone" we understand what order they can execute right now, 28-29 numbers in preparation. And that's why I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please take steps to stop gathering miners now because they lead the country to collision. You can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u79	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Let's not push the mood of disaster, we'll be fine, let's not be afraid of each other. And all we need to do is do it. Let's do it according to established plans. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A proposal is put to the vote: The adoption as a basis and as a whole the bill of the Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Civil and Family Codes of Ukraine. Registration number 3630. Please vote. [[17:23:13]] For 240 The law is passed. I've put your proposal on the ground as a whole. The law is passed. No, no, I made it clear. The law is passed. A draft decree on the 110th anniversary of the birth of the prominent state official of the Soviet Ukraine, Demyan Korotchenk, is being announced for consideration. We have two projects here. So I'd like to ask Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews to come up with this question, as well as Olga Hinzburg. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u80	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! After 10 days, October 29 is 110 years old from the birth of Demyan Sergiyovich Korotchenka. The son of a poor Polish peasant, he ascended to such heights and abrasions as he could open to his fellow countrymen only by Soviet authorities. During the Great War, the secretary of the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine, Damien Korotchenko, was one of the organizers of the underground and guerrilla struggle in a temporarily occupied Soviet territory. His rides on the front line. The huge organization work carried out directly in guerrilla compoundes helped to revitalize the struggle of the people’s avengers against the German captives, bringing the desired day of victory closer. After the war, Demyan Sergijovich Korotchenko, head of the Ukrainian RSR. On his shoulders was a new organizational burden now after the resurgence of the war - torn national economy, which by the end of 1950 exceeded the prewar level. Since 1954 and the last days of his life, that is, for over a decade and a half, Demyan Korotchenko has served as the head of the presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR. As a wise and far-sighted politician, he has done much to increase the role of local councils of deputies working in economic and socio-cultural construction, in enhancing the well-being of the people of Ukraine. Demyan Sergiyovich Korotchenka’s life is a vivid example of serving the interests of Ukraine, the ideals of social justice, and the true people of the world. Our determination, therefore, with Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, is to commemorate the century since the birth of Demyan Sergiyovich Korotchenk at the national level. And the second. The Cabinet of Ministers will draw up a plan of action to mark the Jubilee of Korotchenk, including the provision of funds for the reconstruction of the central square of the village of Korotchenkov in the Sustkin district, that is, in the homeland of Demyan Sergiyyovich. In my project, in the following project, which will report to Olga Petrovna Hinzburg and is proposed, so I'm asking you, your honors, to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u81	Thank you, Volodymyr Grigorovich. Welcome to Hinzburg Olga Petrovna's presentation on the draft regulation 5764-1, please
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The fact is that our two projects about one outstanding person are related, and I have to take down or withdraw my project because it coincides with the decision that my colleague, as well as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, has just introduced to you today. But I have some words to say. Why, today in the village of Korotchenko, this is my district, the Shastkin district, where the bronze breast of this famous man stands, and where all the people of the country are proud of them, we must respond today because this man was a representative of the Soviet system, a model of his life's devotion to the service of the people. And if we can talk about his party work there, more importantly today, what heroic concessions this man made during the Great Homeland War. He spent his days in the reconstruction of Kiev’s protection, he worked in Stalingrad, he was in the troops of Kovpak, and along with him traveled many, many miles through guerrilla forests. We know that in the 43rd year he was sent to an active Southwest merger where he worked. Korotchenko was awarded six Lenin Orders, the Suvorov Order, and many medals. And in order to celebrate this date, my countrymen, the inhabitants of the town of Korotchenko Sumska District have asked very much, and I am asking you to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, from the committee, please, Vitaly Oluiko. Is there a Vitali Oluiko? None. There's a committee decision. We have, your honor, two draft statutes of non-admissibility. Please, Andrew School. The other is Oleg Tuggnibok. Now we're talking about inadmissibility, then we're talking about motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You know, when such a decision is proposed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is doubt as to whether the Supreme Council is being taken seriously by those who propose a similar decision. Because if there was a language going on here. Here we considered the decrees and baptized the writings when it came to Ulas Savchuk, Kozeduba, and Rilski. And finally, these were common figures, like each other, all of us could vote or not. But when it comes to Demyan Korotchenka. I realize that this was an emphasis on his glorious military past. But let's remind him of his prewar activities. This is one of the organizers of the famine in Ukraine. And three times we can confirm or confirm, or convince, that there was no famine or famine, or there was no famine, he. I would like to point out that, in this situation, this bill, as a bill in the walls of the Supreme Council of today and as a Soviet statesman, raises a huge number of questions for me. And I only have one answer for that. I think those who proposed such a bill wanted to sow dissension and abrasion in the walls of the Supreme Council because they knew in advance that this bill would cause a tremendous wave of dissatisfaction in the Supreme Council. This will trigger a colossal upheaval in one way or another for the people who listen and join the radio receivers of the Supreme Council, because it is not necessary to unify society. In fact, if a united role is not to be assumed by the executive authority in force today, at least a united role is to be played by Parliament. And that's why I came out with an initiative on unacceptableness. And I would suggest that we just call off these two bills as such. I don't know what's in time. Believe me, they're not going to be in the walls of this House today. They will not go away for many reasons. First of all, there are no allies here in the central part of Parliament who very often support similar bills, I don't know why, and the Supreme Council's ruling. So I would stress, in the name of common sense, peace and harmony, that we do not put Parliament on the table again, so as not to tolerate parliamentaryism in Ukraine, in order not to bring up nihilism and contempt for parliamentaryism as a phenomenon in today’s young generation. I would simply appeal to the authors of this decree, to recall, as a minimum, for a time, and then it would be a wise, balanced, understandable step. Otherwise, frankly, I'm going to be surprised by this initiative and I'm going to emphasize that it's not going to go through in this room, but you're going to have a serious resonance confrontation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u85	One minute, respectable colleagues, one minute. Now I've announced the inadmissibility, and then we exchange motive. There are two draft regulations, which are by the author of School and Oleg Tsagnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u86	Oleg Tuggnibok, U.S. Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I am just as surprised that the Communist colleagues have tabled this bill right now in the Supreme Council, because it really is causing a complete misunderstanding. Tell me next. Can the nation respect itself when we are here in the walls of Parliament putting forth bills that are to be publicly praised by the executioners of the Ukrainian people? And quite curiously, Mr. Matthew and Mrs. Hinzburg, speaking here and presenting this bill, for some reason, were silent about some of the other pages of Mr. Korotchenk's biography, which since 1918, working in the party and farm system of the Communist Bolshevik regime, worked as the first Secretary of the Bauman Paradise of VCPB and the Secretary of the Moscow Community of VCPB at the exact time that famine was organized in 1932-1933 in Ukraine, just when 10 million Ukrainians were destroyed by this communist-major regime. And Korotchenko, working in the system of party and farm bodies in Ukraine and Moscow, could not have been unaware. From 1938 to 1939, gentlemen, Korotchenka was appointed head of the Council of National Commissioners. 1939-1947, Secretary of the C.C.P.U. It was during this period that the greatest wave of destruction of Ukrainian intelligence, repression, gulag, and the shootings of the Ukrainian nation was taking place. What do you think no one remembers about it, and what have you forgotten? 1947-1954 - Korotchenka was appointed head of the Ukrainian RSR Council of Ministers. It was during this period, and Korotchenko could not help but notice, that he was the third hungry man in the 20th century. Therefore, society can be called the period from 1954 to 1968, when Korotchenko, head of the Presidency of the Supreme Council, was persecuted and destroyed by Ukrainian dissidents, when the Ukrainian language was debased when Ukrainian culture was destroyed. And today you're asking questions about a celebration at the state level of 110 years of this man? Forgive me, this is extremely cynical, and this is an extreme challenge to those tens of millions of victims of the Ukrainians who were destroyed by the hands of the Communist totalitarian regime. And finally, society, in the early 1990s in Kiev was the street of Damien Korotchenk, and then it was renamed the street of Helen Telliga. That was when the Communists shook their pants and feared, they did not know what the situation would be. And today, I see you're getting off your knees. Today, I see you still want to return this totalitarian, criminal system that destroyed the Ukrainian people? So there was my offer of inadmissibility, and I ask you to support it, company.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u87	I'll give it to you, dear fellows. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to address the speakers. Let's not judge each other and evaluate each other. Scores will show the story. Let us preserve consensus and understanding. Because the name was Hinzburg and Matthew. One minute for the line, please. Then it's from motive. Now the lines. It'll be motivated.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u88	I want to say from the rostrum. And I want to not be interrupted. I mean, a man like Korotchenko is a respected man. And my countrymen in the village of Korotchenko, if you're listening to this, you know who to vote for. You remember how your Colgosp-millionaire was in Soviet times, and how you lived back then. And since the year 91, even all the archives have been burned. But what I want to say is, are you laughing or not laughing and don't think you're smarter than yourself, and the rest are stupid. I want to tell you, you're such an opposition, you know, like I'm Margaret Thatcher, that's different for you, that's what I'm saying. You know what? You're talking about Yashchenka, how hard he's having right now. Someone's got a mother. And you know, last year, when I went to the Supreme Council, my mother died the next day because I had a representative of our Ukraine in opposition, and that he forged a protocol for bringing an assembly to 161 constituencies? Well, what moral right do you have to say about some truth? You see, today I remembered and I was sitting here: the Communist Party, this opposition -- 10 members of the MPs died from the Communist Party, 10! Sitting right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u89	Thank you. Thank you, that's all. Please don't shake it now, dear fellows. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. I'm giving the right to a lineup to what was called the last name. Please, the microphone. Then we'll talk for a reason. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u90	Dear voters! I'm talking to you! From this rostrum, some of the ladies who today want to represent the Ukrainian people give a cynical assessment of the time in which they lived, in which the Soviet Union grew up, this state, before which all the democratic states of the world took off their hats, before the citizens of Western Europe and America, had only heard that they were citizens of the great Soviet Union. So when we came up with this draft decree, we wanted to emphasize once again that we need to honor our history and the outstanding state and party actors who have raised our state to such heights.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u91	Yes, dear colleagues, I see there is a need for motivation. Please sign up, three minutes of motive. Three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Bogdan Kostinuk, please. Then Babourin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u93	Yavorowski. Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I appeal to you first of all as the leader of our Parliament. We make up our own problems. I've already said it and I want to say it again: all topics should not be brought to the session. They want the Communists to mark Demyan, let them celebrate, let anyone else want Samchuk, let them celebrate. That's not our problem. And let's just avoid that, because today this fragile patch of ours is actually breaking. You don't just have to do that. And Mrs. Hinzburg, I want to tell you on behalf of "Our Ukraine," on behalf of Victor Andrievich Yushchenka: I forgive you for your cynicism and your virginity. Unfemale cynicism and non-female hysteria. If you want to extend a pipe of gas in your district, you do not need to celebrate the Jubilee of Demian or Kožeduba or anyone else, you need to have the authority to conduct these pipes without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u95	Babourin gives the right to speak to Sergey Humiri. Please. Well, I'm on record, dear colleagues, calm down. I ask that we endure a normal position in Parliament. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u96	Here, colleagues are so fiercely protesting the memory of a remarkable member of our country, Korotchenko, but it is not only the memory of Korotchenko, it is a memory of those truly remarkable successes that have cost indeed enormous sacrifices. But they were. What do we have today? And today, we have a situation where two competitors in the elections are announced by someone, well, I don't know, maybe the gentleman, the most rated, is demonstrating very close levels of degradation of the current regime. And if Korotchenko was creating, we have been falling from the height of Soviet power for 13 years now. And when my colleagues say that we should celebrate this memory, they're absolutely right, because unfortunately, Ukraine has been boasting about something special and something in the last 13 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u97	Stepan Cloud, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u98	Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party, Stepan Cloud. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I, first of all, make such a proposal, and in general, to continue, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and to continue to follow this principle: if the relevant bills are being passed, it is necessary for the expertise of historian scientists, because it is the political and party leaders of the colonial period. And to those who are crying for the Soviet Union today and talking about success, I wanted to remind them of how many millions of Ukrainians died in Siberia and the Far East, in the North, used as slaves. And as the author of the genocide of Ukrainians in the USSR, the KGB was punished for its malicious slander because I was highlighting the problems of famine in my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. There have been replicas. You can use a replica once. Excuse me, Olga Petrovna. Dear colleagues, let's do this. We're not gonna involve any more scientists. We have the right to legislative initiative. We need to be more calm in our perception and opportunity. You can use a replica once. Now, one minute! Well, all right, you'll take it from the motives before the vote. Dear colleagues, we need to be more calm about everything, and we need to know our whole story objectively. And we shouldn't be looking at any event, whether it's a proposal to honor our Ukraine, or, let's say, another part of the hall, that it's going to be a panaguiric singing. It may be possible to see objectively how a statesman, a politician, acted in circumstances that were complex. If we don't make a decision, then we won't. But we should not now exchange political charges against each other. That's what this is all about. Please, the name Hinzburg was mentioned before the reasons for the vote. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking you, no last names, don't worry! No last names, no calm, no emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The point is that when it comes to the subject as it is today, it is not personal, but from our history. And it's no wonder that today the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the block of Yulia Timoshenko will not vote for it. But we Communists should have put it to the vote and told our people that we respect such people. And I'm happier than many of you, for example, that in Soviet times I've learned to be human, and I respect that Soviet authority. I want to tell you and my constituents again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u101	Thus, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote 2 draft decrees on the non-admissibility of the 110th anniversary of Demian Korotchenk's birth. The first to vote is the draft decree by which the National MP of the School is the author. It's about inadmissibility. [[17:44:43]] For-43 The decision is not taken. I'm putting in the second draft of the decision on the non-admissibility of this document, the author is the national MP, Oleg Tagnibok. [[17:45:10]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, since Olga Hinzburg, as the author of the draft decision, has withdrawn her draft decision, I am voting on only one draft decision, the registration number 5764, "To mark the 110th anniversary of the birth of the prominent state official of the Soviet Ukraine, Damien Korotchenk." Please vote. [[17:45:49]] For-94 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine", "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 59, SDPU(o), Labour Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 17, SPO-15, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 0, Ukraine - 0, Center - 0, People's Democratic Party, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Non-fractional - 3. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on child care for up to three years of age]] Mikola Rudzkowski, please. From the committee, please, Bondarchuk Alexander, please. Who else from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour? So let's see what decision he's proposing to take on a profile committee. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Is there a denial? None. Then I beg your pardon! I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 4014. [[on child care for up to three years of age]] Please vote. [[17:47:22]] For 219 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? I'll put it to a vote. Who's for going back to the draft law. [[Registration number 4014]] Please vote. [[17:47:48]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 81, Ukraine - 0, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 0, Labour Ukraine - 0, National agrarian - 19, SPI-19, Block Timoshenko - 18, Union - 0, only Ukraine - 0, Center - 12, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 4, Democratic initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 8. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on extra-school education is being announced for consideration. [[on initial specialized educational institutions]] Reporter Tanjuk Les Stepanovich. Please be prepared by the committee. Cafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u102	The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Out-of-school Education refer to the work of the initial specialized art institutions. Some articles of Ukraine’s Law, the Extracurricular Education Act, which take into account the specificities of the work of extra - school institutions, are generally contrary to the forms of organizational work of the initial specialized art institutions. The aim of the proposed project is to harmonize the Ukrainian law on preschool education with the Ukrainian Education Act, as well as the specificity of the activities of primary specialized schools and schools of aesthetic education for many decades. In short, we have broken the system of music, music, and other schools of education. And what was formed over a long period of time in the education system fell out of the education system today. So we would like to propose amendments to this law. And we think that the introduction of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law does not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine, because it is about preserving the existing system over many decades of the organization and assembly of pipes, tariff arrangements, the establishment of internal standards for our specialized art institutions. In fact, we can adopt this bill in the first reading today to prepare for the second reading those observations and changes that are in different institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u103	Thank you, Les Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. Kafari of the Committee on Science and Education Please. Dear colleagues, we need to work quickly, here are some of the social significance, here's the next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u104	Honorary colleagues, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Extraschool Education, prepared and introduced by Leonid Stepanovich, were reviewed by the Committee on Science and Education and was supported. The bill clarifies the position regarding the preservation of the network of art schools and schools of aesthetic education. Today, they don't have adequate funding, they don't have adequate support, and in many cases, this work in places just comes down to some appropriate ethnic tradition, even though we have children everywhere -- in villages and in cities -- who have tremendously great talents. If we take only the Carnations and see what children can do there when we take the tree, there must be more public security than schools. In particular, the provisions of the bill define structural units, establish standards of pedagogical stress on one pedagogical person, improve the mechanisms for redistribution of pedagogical education, establish order for the filling of groups in art schools, grant schools the right to use aesthetic and artistic plan, and rent a room that will help them, in principle, resolve certain issues of their activity. At the same time, article 2 of the project needs to be complemented and refined in particular, since the proposed limitations on the right of executive authorities to control these schools can harm their organization of activities. Yes, appropriate changes are needed regarding article 6 of the given project. The committee considered, clearly defined these positions and changes and proposed to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u105	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the argument was more than convincing. If there is no objection, we can be put to the vote by listening now, but Yuri Anatolyevich will tell us what he thinks. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Turn on the microphone. Then Yavorowski and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u106	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I was amazed that we had broken up. We didn't break anything, and Mr. Listenyuk knows it very well. 13 years in power is the regime of the Kuchma and the 10 prime ministers he appoints. And that's why we didn't break anything. That's the first one. The other one. What is required by law should be adopted, but only in the first reading. Why? Because some of the legal terms used are. I couldn't understand what a school of aesthetic education was? The law knows the initial specialized art institutions. So it is written in the law, so it must be written. The law knows that education fees are available only in institutions of education that are privately owned and that only pay services can be provided. That's the way it's supposed to be, and we've got our parents' salary here. So in the first reading, you have to accept it, it's removed. And to keep in mind that education is being raped today, they are being raped directly for pre-election purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u107	Vladimir Yavorowski. Then Mironenko. And, I think, let's vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u108	Vladimir Yavorowski. Society, I want to support this bill in a variety of ways, because, in fact, in those years when personality is formed, we have a basic base, in fact we have this period today from some kind of state care actually this period of human life has actually fallen away. That's why I think it's very appropriate, very timely today -- the addition to this very bill, and it needs to be accepted. And you know, I was, let's say, reading this bill and thinking about this topic, because I was preparing for a bigger talk, and I kept thinking, if this were the case, let's say that today's Prime Minister and he went to some art school, say, or cartoonists, or potters, instead of falling into a company that steals hats, we had a completely different situation in Ukraine today. That's why we have to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u109	Thank you. Victor Mironenko. And we'll determine by vote. Please, Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u110	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. The Communist faction would support the Committee's proposal. But let us tell the truth: that the law can be passed, but it will not be fulfilled, will continue to fail not only primary education, but also secondary education, and higher education. And guilty, both true, are the oligarchs, the great capitalists on whom the Democrats have made a bet, the nationalists who have now nominated the two so-called highest-ranking candidates. Oligarchs are guilty and guilty of supporting the oligarchs. I spoke today and spoke about it, called it familially oligarchs, and representatives of “Our Ukraine” supporting Yushchenko. He didn't like it very much. He threatened me with physical violence, insulted me, and so on. But let's not hide the truth if you're Democrats, if you're right. Why are you trying to hide that the same Timoshenko, the same Dusty, the same Vana are oligarchs, big capitalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, we're just starting to settle down. Let's talk about the law. I'm just begging you. There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Extra-School Education for the Initial Specialized Schools. Registration number 5365. Please vote. [[17:56:42]] For 239. The law is passed. Rather, the draft law was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, one minute. We have a very important bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology on the Assignment of a Disability Pension. Let's continue our work and consider this bill. For 15 minutes. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. May I have your attention, Your Honor? It's a social important law. May I have your attention, please? Be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The bill's author, Suškevitch Valeriy Mihajlovich, who represents our committee, asked me to report on his bill. What are we talking about? It's about one very simple and understandable thing. The point is that the law, in particular article 34 of the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, only has the right to receive such a scientific pension as a result of general illness, as well as occupational disability or occupational illness. A category of people fell out, like disabled children or disabled children. The fact is that these people, despite their illness, are discriminated against by overcoming it, becoming scientific workers, in this case we are discriminated against. So I'm asking you very much to accept this document, if you don't mind the profile committee, then take it on two readings. [[Especially considering that two words are actually added: disabled persons from childhood]] Because the situation is completely clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u113	What's the committee's opinion, profile? In fact, if you look at the documents, it matches. Is there no warning that we should put this document to the vote now? Please, Carmazine's microphone, please. May I have your attention, please? Be patient.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u114	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This law compares the rights of disabled persons from childhood to the rights of disabled persons from the general disability of persons with disabilities as a result of work disability or occupational illness in relation to the granting of disability pensions as a proportion of the pension of a scientific worker. So we're going to do a good job for these people. I would like to make this suggestion: Accept it in the first and second readings, for this law is practically to be continued anywhere. I can see that no one in the room contradicts that, no one contradicts that. I went around the factions, saw that there was a mood to vote for two readings at once. I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to save time and show you how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works constructively today, when we don't have a problem with SDPU(o) and other clan oligharchic structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-10-19-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, no warning against such an offer? It's a committee proposal, it's consistent with the position of the people's deputies. It is then put to the vote on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. [[on the appointment of disability pensions]] Registration number 4522, please vote. [[18:00:10]] For 240 The law is passed. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow we'll continue the 10 o'clock plenary session on Wednesday. The issue of the 2005 State Budget will be discussed first.
