ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:16]] A total of 419 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our national deputy, our colleague, Igor Aleksandrovitch. Let us welcome, wish for the health of the strong. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'd like to republish the weather information if you'll excuse me. In connection with the movement of active atmospheric fronts from the North in most areas of Ukraine, September 9, 10, is forecast to rain, in the Carpathians with wet snow, in the south, and in the eastern areas, in places heavy rains with thunderstorms, and intensification of the wind up to 15-20 meters per second. September 11, the weather in Ukraine will determine the cold anticyclone. September 11th in Western areas, September 12th in the western half and North of the Left Bank are expected to freeze on the ground, and Carpathians are expected to freeze in the air to minus three degrees Fahrenheit. The complexity of weather conditions can have a negative impact on transport, utilities, energy, communications, and the agrarian sector. I'd like to take that into account. Dear colleagues! The factions of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine require a 30-minute break in accordance with the Rules. I'm asking if you have it. No, it's not. Calm down, please. If you have a statement that's ready, why are you going to take a break for three minutes, make a statement and we'll work on it. Who will act? The word is given by Yuri Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I am authorized to make a statement on behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine." Today, when the President's election takes place in the final phase, the authorities are finally losing their minds. It unleashes terror against people, throws millions of people into false advertising, and commits extreme immoral acts. In addition to the existing ones, new dungeons are being introduced, and the militias are being formed in places called the presidential 2004 scenario teams. These groups carry out fax orders that come from the center without any props and outgoing registrations. Among the tasks of the groups are to avoid the placement of Yushchenk's boards, prevent the production and distribution of agitative products, control of headquarters, detection of adhesions and insubordinates in power. Dirty technologies employed by dirty authorities compete in the preparation of provocations, but they are all doomed to failure. Today, weathermen have challenged us, all the people. They want to lead a swastika and a swastika on Kyiv Street and organize a torch walk on the streets of Kiev. The UN’s provocateurs plan to use Fascist symbols, anti - Semitic slogans combined with slogans, as if supporting Victor Yushchenk. We have repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General's Office, with demands to stop the anti-constitutional activities of the UNA aimed at fuelling international hostility. For no one in Ukraine is the secret whose work they are, the office of this so-called party is, in fact, in the court of the President's administration. High patrons zealously defend their guardians. It's clear, if there's no UNA Kovalenka and Brotherhood Korczynski, who's going to be creating good pictures for "Intera", "1+1" and "UT-1"? We require the Ministry of the Interior, the Security Service and the Attorney General’s Office not to allow the provocation of the Ukrainian National Assembly near the monument of Shevchenk today. It's their last time to prove that they're law enforcement agencies, not provocative departments at Yanukovic headquarters. The faction "Our Ukraine" claims that if the authorities do not think and continue to cultivate and cultivate fascism in Ukraine, we will find ways to clear the fascist impure streets of our capital and other cities of Ukraine. Shame on the political provokers! We will not allow fascism in Ukraine! Fascism won't go away! Vladimir Mihajlovich, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is asking to put to the vote a draft statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on today's provocation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we don't vote similar, we've never had practice. I ask that you submit this application to the Secretariat and, on behalf of the Supreme Council, send it to the relevant ministries and authorities as a parliamentary address. Let's move on to the daily routine. A draft ruling on the dismissal of the judge, registration number 6114, is being considered, according to Committee head Vasil Vasilovitch Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you have in your hands a draft decision by the Supreme Council on the release of Shevchuk Peter Ivanovich on his own desire to resign in connection with poor health. Peter Ivanovich Shevchuk has long served as deputy minister of justice, the deputy chief of the Supreme Court, is now the judge of the Supreme Court. Sadly, his health prevents him from continuing to perform his duties. So the Council of Justice reviewed his application. And the Committee on Legal Policy also supports this statement. Please vote on this project as a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u5	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Questions understood, fellow believers? No questions to Vasil Vasilovich? None. Then I put to the vote the Order on the release of the judge. Registration number 6114. "To release Shevchuk Petar Ivanovich from his post as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with the application for a state of health pension which prevents the continuation of duties." Please vote. [[10:11:23]] For the 320. Decision taken. There's a draft decision on the election of the People's Deputy Kisse as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Reports the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u6	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee, a statement was considered by the Ukrainian National Deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. The calculated quota of the MPI(s) on the Committees as a whole is 1.5, and the committee is currently only one representative of this faction, i.e. the quota is not fully used by this faction. The proposal is also supported by the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. It is also worth noting, my dear colleagues, that Anton Ivanovich is today the deputy head of the council of representatives of the national minority organizations in Ukraine, as well as the head of the association of Bulgarian national and cultural associations and organizations of Ukraine. Taking this into account, the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced a draft decision to the Supreme Council on the election of Ukrainian National Deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Bezpali. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u8	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Valentin Grigorovich, you're talking about the calculation quotas for SDPU. At the same time, in the faction of SDPU(o) it was taken into account that the positions of the national deputies for today are unlawfully held by Mr. Satsuk, who is the head. Deputy Head of the Security Service and Mr. Kaletnik, who is the head of the district administration of the Winnicki district. But they also affect the calculation quota. This is the first one. Therefore, the question of depriving them of their parliamentary powers should be immediately asked. And on occasion, I would like to say that we have two very distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers. I understand that they understand that the Cabinet of Ministers will change in two months because Yanukovic won't win the election, but I think they have to follow the law. If the Cabinet of Ministers shows an example of failure to comply with the law and we don't respond to it, I think that's not the example that the Supreme Council should be showing. They also vote. Voting is illegal. Therefore, we need to ask urgent questions about the removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u9	Thank you, Boris Jacobovich. This question, by the way, was raised at a meeting of the Conciliation Council on Monday and was answered in detail by both the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and I, as chairman of the Rules Committee. With regard to the first two, or national MPs, members of the faction of the Faction of the SDPU (O), the question of their being reconciled with the positions of the National Deputy of Ukraine and the positions they hold today will be considered at the next meeting of the Rules Committee. With regard to government officials, Ukrainian national deputies today, the matter has long been referred to the Head of the Supreme Council for submission of these national deputies for consideration at the Court of Appeal in Kiev. The papers are all in this court today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u10	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the decision to elect a national deputy, Kisse, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:16:29]] For 317 Decision taken. Welcome, colleague. Let us now consider the questions of second reading. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Forensic Expertise on Criminal Materials, Bill No. 1144. [[resecond reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u11	Dear friends! It's a bill that goes into second reading again. On the previous review of the issues, the key question raised in the hall is whether a system of judicial expertise should be fully redesigned and the institutions that carry out various kinds of expertise, the Ministry of Justice or leave them directly under the supervision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Ukrainian Security Service. These amendments were discussed at the Committee and in the end the Committee came to a conclusion, leaving to avoid breaking the current system of forensic expertise directly in subordination to the offices where they are now, but to strengthen the article on the possibility of conducting alternative experts. Thus, the key amendment that emerged from the proposals of dozens of people's deputies is actually included in the Committee's comments and the bill is ready for review in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u12	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Dear colleagues, I am addressing those national MPs who have made amendments, the changes that the reporter has just said are understandable. So this bill has a different concept than the amendments have been made. But I go according to the rules to colleagues who have made amendments, who are unaccounted for, and who insist on their stand. Is there one? Please, Boris Lightless, microphone, then Sirenko. Please call.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u13	Boris Nepaly, Victor Yushchenko block "Our Ukraine." This is Amendment No. 3. Dear Sergey Vladislavovich, I have proposed to supplement the rule that legislation on judicial expertise, which is made up of this law, other normative acts, should complement the provision that other legal acts should not conflict with this law. For general theoretical reasons, it is clear that legal acts should not conflict with the law, but our practice is that the authorities issue a multitude of normative acts and these acts are very often in conflict with laws. Moreover, in places such authorities are guided by their well - known acts. An example is the tax rate that works in general in an illegal field. And there is no reason for these officials to be held accountable. If we write directly in the law that these normative acts should not conflict with the law and these acts will be issued, then on the basis of the request, it will be possible to bring responsibility to those who know the normative acts that do not comply with the law. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u14	I'll make the only comment. Now the room will be defined. More specifically, it is a warning that this standard is actually provided for in article eight of the Constitution. If the Constitution is not implemented, you realize that any amendment we make to the bill or to the law that is in force will not be implemented if it violates the relevant authorities. This is the standard that is the Constitution. Come on, if we're scared, and the hall will back it up, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u15	Does Boris Bespali insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Please, the Syrenk MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, in fact, this whole law is designed to ensure that those authorities who are responsible for criminal matters are given the necessary expertise. This, of course, is illogical and wrong. But we don't have any other institutions of expertise today. So to some extent, we agreed to this option. But there is a need to increase the number of institutions and the capacity of expert evaluations. So I propose in the ninth amendment that we extend the possibilities of expert evaluations to both the National Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Legal Sciences in intellectual property at least. So this amendment does not change the substance of the law, but it also allows academics of science to participate in these expert evaluations outside of those criminal-related departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u18	I won't even comment. It's a more theoretical question. The committee, you know, had two different points of view. The point of view that is given directly in the compare table has passed. But I no doubt believe that Deputy Sirenko, who has made this amendment and for the previous reading, has the opportunity to argue that. That's why this room can only be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u19	Yes, dear fellows, I bet you be careful. An amendment No. 9 of the national deputy Sirenka is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:22:26]] Z-91 Correction not accepted. Who else are the national deputies? Please, Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u20	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", Amendment No.14. I'm in the process of developing what Vasil Fedorovich just said. The thing is, some specialized expertise in criminal matters can be involved, like art historians, right? If it was just yesterday, we were only discussing the issue of the return of cultural values. This, they can do better and parallel, and in addition to specialized expertise. So we're doing, for example, science, in the same Academy of Sciences, beyond the possibility of getting involved in expertise. In my opinion, this is wrong, because not always in specialized institutions are there opportunities for all sectors, and offences are possible in all areas of life, to gather better professionals. And we deprive them of their right to address, indeed, key experts. So I think this approach needs to be supported, as set out in my 14th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u21	I am very grateful. We actually came up with an article that I would like to remind you of during the preliminary consideration of this bill, and the bill was not adopted. We need to identify ourselves in the hall right now. I'll tell you the logic the committee warned. It is the following: there are three kinds of expertise conducted exclusively by the State. This is criminal, forensic and forensic expertise. These three kinds of expertise are strictly the priority of the state. All other expertise may be carried out, please, by any other institution with appropriate expertise. But the committee went, look, this second part of this article, to such an amendment, where a key warning by the State alone is supplemented by another chapter. And we're saying that other experts can be involved besides forensic experts. This makes it possible in your case, for example, to involve any expert in any field of knowledge even in an institution where there is an exclusive priority of the state in conducting these experiments. If this is about the expertise that you've warned about, there's no limit here at all, such expertise can be carried out at any other institution. So this is what we need right now, this is a key piece of the law that, once again, I want to say, the law still couldn't move on during the previous discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u22	Boris doesn't insist on Bespallian, does he? Yeah, let's move on to the amendments. Who else insists on their amendments that are unaccounted for? You don't? Then the committee's proposal. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u23	The committee discussed all these questions and suggestions by the national MPs. Everyone else, as you can see, is accounted for. Therefore, the proposal is to accept the bill as a whole in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Forensic Expertise. Registration number 1144. Please vote. [[10:26:05]] For 326 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws prohibiting forced evictions of the most vulnerable groups of the population from residential areas is being published. The second question. Registration number 257. Reporter Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u25	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I will remind you of the essence of this law. The bill was introduced by Timoshenko, Moroz, Simonenko, and Turkinov. And it is about providing certain guarantees for such persons as veterans, participants in the Great Homeland War, pensioners, disabled persons, incapacitated persons, unemployed persons, minors or single persons, families whose total monthly income does not exceed the statutory subsistence minimum for debts. Well, it's about not being able to move people out of their apartments, taking away housing belonging to their private property. We worked on it in our second reading. And, I think, if there are no objections to certain articles, I would like to vote in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u26	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, who among the national deputies insists on their amendments? Bessip Boris' microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u27	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Vasil Vasilovich, this bill removes any changes to the second reading of the Housing Codex. I understand some logic, since the Housing Codex, a new edition, has already been adopted as a basis for a new edition. But at the same time, first of all, there's a lot of these things right now. And not even so many cases -- the authorities are turning to the courts as much as they are threatening. There's a lot of pressure on people, there's blackmail. [[Now I'm being approached by the electorate.]] Thus, the new Housing Code will be adopted as soon as possible. Thus, it may be wise to include these warnings in the current Housing Code because people are nervous every day. This, in my view, is an important question. And the second. Are they included in the corresponding amendments, including mine, and those you spoke to, to the group that is working on the new edition of the Housing Code?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u28	Boris Jakovic, thank you for that question. We considered this proposal carefully at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy. Indeed, the new draft of the Housing Code provides for evictions from housing, for nonpayment of rents. And we should be there when we take the second reading, and I think that the Committee on Legal Policy will take the right position. We're against evicting. With regard to the present - day Housing Code, it states that evicting potential residents is only provided by law. Therefore, the amendments to article 116 of the Housing Code are not acceptable to us. Because it doesn't exactly provide for evictions for non-payment of rent. I'll remind you what you can move out of there for without giving up another living room. If the tenant, members of his family or others who live with him, first, systematically destroys or destroys a living room, uses it not by destination, systematic violation of the rules of socialism makes it impossible for others to live with them in one apartment or in one house, and prevention measures have proved ineffective. [[The piglets are held there or the rabbits are divorced]] [[and Terminology]] That is to say, it is on these grounds that we can move out without giving up another living room. In other cases it is not possible to evict. Thus, the committee carefully considered the proposal and felt that there was no basis for it today. We know that municipal authorities sometimes turn to courts, but the courts refuse because the Housing Code does not provide a basis for evicting people for not paying them. [[And I think we're being heard by Ukrainian citizens.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Who else insists? Boris Bespali. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u30	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Now it's about the eighth amendment. I am grateful to the committee for taking into account a number of our amendments and mine, particularly mine. Now I'd like to make one single amendment, though, and I'd like to ask you to take it into account. At first glance, it's philosophical, but it's actually meaningful, because the courts always approach the case literally. We have the term "living houses, living quarters" and the term "residential." The thing is, "dwelling" doesn't have that Ukrainian word, it's from the Russian word "dwelling." The Ukrainian word for "residence." And if the case goes to trial, the lawyers there start looking for a difference between the living, the living, and so on. It's confusing. Laws should be clearly written. It's supposed to be synonymous in art. So I have a big request, and I suggested that we bring terminology to clarity, and in particular everywhere, the term "living houses," the term "dwelling," and so on, replace "dwelling," so that there's no temptation to play philosophy, to throw people away under these premeditated terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u31	Boris Yakovich, well, we've also come out of what we've recently adopted the Civil Code, which is in force today, so we've come out of an active terminology. But there is a problem. And really, we have to go somewhere just to do a review of our current legislation so that we don't have any Russians.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u32	Yes, who else insists, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u33	In general, the law is progressive. I think we should.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u34	Kafar microphone, please. Kafarsky's microphone, the faction of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u35	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! In the legislative introduction there is the Housing Code. These positions that are now being considered in this law of yours are clearly stated. Would it not be better to impose a moratorium on evictions before the adoption of the Housing Code so as not to introduce differences in legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u36	The point is that we spoke only about article 116 of the Housing Code and article 62 of the Law on Enforcement, where we clearly recorded which persons cannot be evicted and taken from them houses and apartments, which I have just told you about. And there are other reasons for evicting: giving, giving, giving, giving, giving, living quarters that are smaller. Therefore, the moratorium is understated; we simply need to approach the adoption of the new Ukrainian Housing Code quite carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u37	Who else insists on reforming their ways? None. Committee proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u38	The committee's proposal is to accept it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u39	There's Karmazin's repair. What's that? Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone. 11, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u40	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenko's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vasil Vasilovich, this is about an amendment to the 7th and 12th. The thing is, citizens are very concerned right now about the very possibility of making a call to housing and to an apartment, so we have to calm them down and say that we're not going to make it worse is the first time. Because I just got back from Cherkishka, and people are worried that this is going to happen right now. That's why I suggested in article 62 that I write: "In the implementation of the registered housing to pay off the debt, the possibility of further granting the debtor less housing is taken into account. The committee counted, but added, "but no less than the standard set out in article 47." I'm a little worried because.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u41	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u42	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. We took your amendment into account, but the committee, as you can see, even improved it. We wrote that a living room is provided in accordance with article 47 of the Housing Code, since in each one, Kiev, for example, has a living room of at least 8 sq.m. m per person, 9 sq. m and the maximum standard is 13.65. In Winnitz, let's say 10, up to 13.65, depending on which housing fund is in the region. So this rule is more clearly defined, and I think it will guarantee citizens' rights more qualitatively and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the amendments urged by the national MPs have been discussed. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, once again, offer the final committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u44	Thank you. Then I ask you to vote in general on the second reading as well as on the whole. We have worked extremely hard on this law with your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u45	Yes, for the reasons of the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u46	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not many of us in the hall today. But the adoption of this law is very important for hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens. I actually face these questions every week in the city of Chernigov. Now they're trying to privatize dormitories, privatize entire houses, and move hundreds of people out, dump them on the street. Today we must adopt this law and protect people from the disgrace that is taking place in Ukraine. Alexander Alexander Moroz made this proposal, and along with his fellow national deputies, he insists, and together, I think, with most of us today, we will adopt this law. I ask to vote it today in the second reading and in general, and I hope that the President will not have his hand to throw people on the street and veto them like other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal put forward by the committee. Change the vote. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, for reasons, please the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u48	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that among the initiators of the adoption of this law, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, leader of the party and faction, and as head of the committee, as a representative of the faction, realizing that more than half of the people who are suffering from today's situation are people who are underprivileged, pensioners, veterans, invalids, I would ask everyone to support this bill in order to protect people from taking power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u49	I am voting on the proposal of a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prohibit forced eviction of the most vulnerable groups of the population and living rooms without allowing evicted other living quarters. Registration number 257. Please vote. [[10:38:47]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Don't scream, please. The factions. “Our Ukraine” - 88, “Ukraine” - 2, “Communist faction - 54, “Deminicatives” - 0, “The People’s Government” - 6, “Trudova Ukraine” - 0, “The People’s Agrarian Party” - 18, “SPU” - 18, “Timoshenko Block” - 19, “Soyuz” - 2, “NDP” - 3, “Centre” - 7, “Postfactions - 7. Just a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calm down. Committee proposal, please. There's a committee head, please. Microphone, please, Onopenka Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. My fellow MPs say that there's no vote on two socialists, we're in the BET. And I think it's agriculture. I think we should put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking for your attention! One minute! So let's not discredit the voting system, but let's just say we didn't make it. This will be objective. So I'd like to have your attention. I put it to a vote: who is in favour of coming back to this issue in accordance with the Rules. Please vote. [[10:40:38]] For 245 In accordance with the Rules and Procedures and the Procedural Committee's proposals, I am voting on the second reading and generally as a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine prohibiting forced evictions of the most unprotected species from living quarters without giving evictions to other living quarters. Registration number is 257. [[10:41:21]] For 259. The law is passed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 97, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communist factions - 58, SDPU (o) - 2, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 11, "Trudova Ukraine" - 2, National Agrarian - 19, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 7, NDP, "Industrials and Entrepreneurs" - 0, Center - 15, beyond fractional - 8. Yes, dear fellows! We are now going to consider the laws returned with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The draft is announced for consideration, sorry, the Ukrainian President's proposal for the Ukrainian law to amend certain legislative acts in the field of higher education. Registration number is 5480. Please, Zuravsky Vitaly Stanislavovich, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The president believes that a draft law that is being considered is appropriate to be adopted in the light of his proposal. As the President of Ukraine notes, it is not appropriate to introduce funding for higher education institutions of state municipal property at the same time from different budgets. Such changes, indeed, are not in line with the budgetary code and the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Moreover, the introduction of funding for the institutions concerned from different budgets may have a negative impact on the effectiveness of monitoring targeted and rational spending of budgets at different levels on higher education funding. It is also considered inappropriate to make changes in the draft law regarding the granting of tax benefits. This applies to the exemption from the payment of student land taxes, rest camps and the structural units of the higher educational institution that provide for the operation of the institution. This change, according to the Head of State, will have a negative impact on the income of the local budgets, on the decrease in the income of the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine, will lead to the conviction of the Head of State, and the exclusion of 50 per cent from the income of the General Fund of the State Budget for 2004 from the rental of property of higher and professional and technical educational institutions of the state and municipal form of property. Considering that the law does not contain sources of income loss for the State budget and local budgets, the changes it provides may, according to the President of Ukraine, result in a balance of Ukraine's budget. The President also denies granting certain benefits to public and municipal educational institutions for sanctions for breaches of the contractual energy regime, since such an approach is contrary to the constitutional principle of equality of all property and property rights before the law, and in practice can lead to an uncontrolled excess of electricity consumption limits. It is also indicated that they do not comply with the Earth Code and the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which, inter alia, will strengthen the land areas behind the higher educational institutions of the State and the municipal form of ownership of operational management rights. By the way, the President's position is supported by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, and this position coincides with the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the committee is Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to tell you that the kind steps taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and our government to support higher education will benefit our economy and our state. Our committee is proposing to take part in the President's proposal. For example, when it comes to changes in the earth’s code. At first we offered not to transfer the land in general, which was in colleges, the communal form of property in general to communities, so as not to privatize them. Now we've removed this position, and we've left only protection to the state form of property. Indeed, this contradicted the Constitution. We have also taken into account the President's proposals regarding the introduction of this law. It is absolutely right here to agree that the entry is not appropriate at the time of publication. We propose to introduce these proposals from January 1st, from the new fiscal year. In addition, the President's and the government's proposals are correct regarding the opening of accounts by universities (this is article 63 of the Higher Education Act), paragraph twenty-ninth. We agreed and wrote it like that. As required by the Payment Systems Act and written that the order of opening these accounts is recognized by the National Bank of Ukraine. On the basis of these suggestions, we would suggest. We also took into account other proposals made by the President. What I'd like to ask you today. Dear colleagues! How can we today agree with such a claim that it is impossible, for example, to withdraw penalties from public educational institutions for the untimely payment of utilities? People are good, we do not add funding to them from the budget, and as a result, five times the fine. Then we return these fines five times from the budget. So maybe it's convenient for someone to do that? Or, let's say, another observation. From budgets of different levels, we give the right, we write in law, in the local budget, to fund a university if there's a problem. We did it in the trades. We were told it would collapse, the entire budget system would be destroyed. But it didn't break, it didn't collapse. Over the past year, there's barely a million or so benefits there. The city of Kyiv gave to the orphans. The province of Ravenna provided assistance. Where am I leading this? Today, the city of Kiev, Omelchenko, the mayor, tells me, "If I had the chance to blow up the wind, blow up a roof from some school, I could give you 100 or 200 grand, but they'll put me in jail." So we don't have to finance, we give you the right to do it in extreme conditions. What am I offering? To vote in favour of these proposals, and you have this law with five Presidential proposals as a new version of the law. To do that, we need a friendly vote, 300 votes, and this law will be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u55	No, 226.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u56	Ah, 226. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u57	You've got everything, haven't you? Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal has been understood. Stanislav Mikolaiovich, you stay here. In accordance with the Rules, we must now vote in this order. First. We are voting on the President's proposal to reject this law. Yes, Stanislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u58	Yeah, yeah, I mean, you don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u59	That's why I'm voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in the field of higher education. Registration number 5480. [[10:49:47]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The factions? Now, one minute. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -0, "Regions of Ukraine" -44, Communists -0, "Deminicatives" -32, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" -16, "The Labour Ukraine - 28, "The People's Agrarian -0, 0, "Timoshenko" -0, "The Union" -7, "The Industrialists and Entrepreneurs" -0, "The Centre" -0. Now let's move on. Next procedure, Your Honor. Since the committee proposes to enact legislation in the new edition, partly taking into account the President's proposals, we should vote on the President's proposals that the committee proposes to reject. I put to the vote the President's proposal on page 1 rejected by the committee to article 1 of chapter 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u60	We vote in favour. I vote "yes" to reject this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u61	No, no! [[B in m in s a l in]] Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, you're in. Change the vote. You're misleading. The president insists that this article be taken into account, right? The committee's proposing a rejection. If 226 votes were to be cast, this article would be counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u62	Then I don't vote. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the first to vote is the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you again. Well, calm down. The point is, the honourable colleagues that the President had proposals for each article. In the end, he suggested that we turn it down. If we consider each article.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u64	He offered to turn everyone away! We didn't support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u65	Just a minute. The committee doesn't offer to beat the veto. Dear colleagues, please sit down and calm down. Let's work as we worked. The committee doesn't offer to beat the veto. The committee proposes that the President's proposals be partially taken into account! - and the others don't. By the logic of things, we should vote on proposals that the committee does not support. Keep it clean. I am voting on the President's motion to article 1 of chapter 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u66	The committee does not support this. I don't vote. [[10:52:38]] For-152.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u67	Not accepted. On page 4, there's the President's proposal. She's rejected by the Committee, I'm putting her to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u68	The committee does not support this. [[10:53:05]] For 148
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u69	Solution: Not accepted. Page 6, the President’s proposal to paragraph 2, article 7, was rejected by the Committee. I'm putting her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u70	We don't. [[10:53:30.]] For-138
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u71	To 138. The decision is not taken. Page 7, the president's proposal, I put it to a vote, the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u72	The committee does not support this. [[10:53:55]] For-151
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u73	For -151. Not accepted. Page 8, First Amendment. Here are two amendments on this page, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u74	The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u75	The first amendment on page 8 rejected by the Committee. [[10:54:22]] For a hundred and
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u76	To - 150. Correction not accepted. Page 8, the second amendment on page 8, is to Article 8, paragraph 3. The committee rejected the amendment. I'm putting her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u77	The committee does not support this. [[10:54:47]] For 139
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u78	For - 139. Correction not accepted. I am now voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in a new edition the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in the area of higher education, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Registration number 5480.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u79	We vote yes. [[10:55:25]] For 415
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u80	That's how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u81	For - 415, the law's passed. Thank you. Announcing the Law of Ukraine. The factions, please. Change it. Yes, by factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 96, “Regions of Ukraine” - 61, Communist faction - 54, SDPU - 40, “Deminiciates” - 20, “Trudova Ukraine” - 28, “National Agrarian Party - 21, SPU - 20, “Timoshenko” - 19, “Centre” - 14, “Soyuz” - 15, “NDP” - 17, “PPU” - 10. The Act on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, provides for educational, scientific and pedagogical and other categories of teaching staff with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 20.07.2004. Reporter: First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov. Please, Mikolo Janovich. The focal point will be the chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, Stanislaw Mikolayovich Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! As decided by the head of state, I am asked to present the President's proposals, which are the following. In article 1, the law proposes the sovereign debt of Ukraine's State budget for individual payments set out in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. This does not support the repayment of such debt, which is made at the expense of the State Budget for 5 years and is proposed to delete the words "equal parts". Maybe we're "unequal" and much earlier we're going to settle this debt. This does not correspond to part 2 of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine where any expenditure incurred by the State on the general public needs is the size and purpose of the expenditure is determined solely by the State Budget Act. I want to say what happened before, and it's done in the last two years. Despite the fact that article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work provides that the conditions of payment for employees of institutions, organizations funded from the budget are determined by the Government of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In March 1996, a law was passed amending the Education Act of the Ukrainian RSR, which provides for pay conditions for education. What, how is the general approach to pay violated? Article 57 of this Law was provided for in a corresponding provision. But either in 1997, or in 1998, or in 1999, or in other years. Neither the government nor the Supreme Legislative Council, this actual decision has been formulated. Moreover, over the years, debt was accumulated not only on the benefits but also on the wages paid. As we estimate, at that time, there was a significant debt of social benefits, which was 3.3 billion dollars in 1996 under the budget, 2.8 billion dollars in 1997 and 3.7 billion dollars in 1998 and three billion dollars in 1999. Costs over the years were not foreseen in the budget, nor have decisions been made on the mechanism for implementing the paragraphs mentioned above over the years. Since September 1, 2002, the above payments have begun to be made in the scales defined in the 57th article of the budget. The Supreme Council of Ukraine Act of 17 June 2004 amending the State Budget Act provides for amendments to article 78 of the Act, which complements the Act, according to which the benefits for the free use of the apartment with heating and lighting pursuant to article 58, paragraph 1, of the fourth part of the Act are granted under State budget subsidies: the granting of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for electricity, natural gas, heat and water services, housing, household waste and waste. I would like to point out that on September 9, there is no debt under this article that the government has before the education community. Significant additional funds will need to be made available to pay off the arrears of retired workers throughout the actual period of work and to take into account the amount of such debt in the calculation of pensions. According to the region, only the implementation of the debt inventory situation would require a significant reduction. increasing both the number and the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u83	Ah, turn on the microphone. Microphone to complete the performance. It's a very important subject. Please. No objection, dear colleagues? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u84	And finally. The implementation of the establishment of average salaries at a level lower than the average wage of industrial workers, as well as at the level of the double average wage of industrial workers, will require the annual allocation of additional costs from the budget of all levels of over 11 billion dollars. What this can do to reduce the possibility of solving other social issues in the fields of culture, health, the approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum of living, the increase in scholarships, and so forth. It should also be borne in mind that the State Budget Laws 1997, 1998, 1999 did not provide for adequate funds. It's about accepting the debt of payments. Pedagogical workers working in rural areas and nearby villages, as well as retired workers who had previously worked as teachers in these community centers, living in them free of charge with heating and lighting. These benefits were suspended or reduced by laws corresponding to 2000-2001. During this period, however, such categories of citizens were entitled to an assignment under the Ukrainian legislation. The basis of housing subsidies for the reimbursement of housing-communal costs and the corresponding conditions is the right to implement. Finally. The law in question separates an important category of our employees and solves the issue only for a specific category of our employees. In this regard, it is worth reminding us that legislation provides for appropriate compensation and other categories of citizens. This separation of certain categories in society does not conform to the constitutional principle of equality of citizens before the law. Thus, the law violates the rights of other workers who are guaranteed to pay for work on a professional basis. Dear National Deputies! The president of Ukraine proposes that this law be rejected. And I'll literally say a few words on my behalf with your permission. Here's what I want to tell you. Dear National Deputies! Dear listeners! The government can only pay what it has in its pocket and not a penny more. And we went, starting this year, to do the 57th article. There was an education committee meeting yesterday. I think we've found a reasonable compromise, and we're about five years out of debt that we haven't created. We'll put it out. So this law, which will be proposed on behalf of the Committee on Education, there are only some amendments. We've already talked to the committee head about this. This applies to equal parts to exclude two words, and there are other little editorial changes. So the government is going to have to do these things, they're going to cost about 1 billion extra dollars that we're going to think about how to take into account in the government budget. Well, every year, of course, I'm talking about 2005, extra every year, about one billion. In a few days, we will report to you on the State Budget Act 2005. We set priorities in it: agrarian complex, social issues, and so on. You'll see how much the cost is projected to go up. But if you make a different decision, it is only natural that these volumes will be reduced. I think we should agree with you on a reasonable compromise and encourage you to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u85	Mikola Janovich, thank you, please sit down. Head of the Committee Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko, position of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to refer to the government, to the national MPs, to Mikola Janovich, to say that this is a matter of great importance. There is no such city today, no matter where people put it, because 2.5 million educators are waiting for that decision. I'm literally not going to comment on the President's veto, I just want to point out that the President's observation that the Supreme Council is violating article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution, because we're kind of returning teachers, and I've forgotten the rest. She's completely out of her mind. Why? Because we can't have equality in poverty, we have equality in wealth. Why? I can ask questions, we didn't pay for them. We all have to pay. So if we pay for it, does it violate the rights of others? Let's pay for that, too. The committee discussed the problem very carefully for several weeks with lawyers, economists, educators, and professionals. And what do we propose? The committee made that decision. First of all, we will propose to the Supreme Council to overcome the veto. If the veto is not overcome, then we offer a compromise option, where we take into account the three Presidential proposals that I'll talk about later, after the vote, after the veto has been over. We propose to vote in favour of overcoming the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, we first vote on the President's proposal. And the President's proposal is to reject this law. So I'd like to have your attention. I'll be the first. Change the vote. Please, with a motive. Please sign up for five minutes on the basis of the vote. Write down, taking into account the importance of this moment. You should sign up, dear fellows. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Manchulenko Georgie.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u88	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Dear Head, dear colleagues. I think that many deputies, especially those elected from one-maned districts, were in their constituencies at the end of August and participated in teaching conferences. And that's where the educators put us with specific problems, including article 57 of the Education Act. If we fail to resolve this problem, how will we view our educators? I propose to vote against the President's proposal to repeal this law, and on the contrary, I propose to break the veto into this law so that we can finally solve the problem of article 57 of the Education Act and prove to our educators that Parliament is capable of solving serious problems, including in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u89	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u90	Commie faction, Rodionov. The Communist faction supports the veto. Overcoming the President's veto on this issue. Moreover, in all times of independence, the faction of communists has considered and considered the educational sector to be a priority area to date. And in the faction leader's programme, his programme as a candidate for the presidency focuses on these issues, that if Ukraine continues to apply to the Auschwitzers, scientists, Ukraine will never come out of the crisis. The Communists therefore support the veto of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u91	Yes, Plutinski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Please turn on Vladimir Antonovich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u92	Thank you. Plutinski, National Agrarian Party. The Agrarian Party also supports this project because it depends on the fate of the teachers, and it needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u93	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, respected teachers of Ukraine! More than 400 votes were handed over to the national deputies to repay their debts to teachers. I don't think the government is doing the right thing when more than 400 votes are put to the vote to propose that the veto be imposed by the President. And at the same time, that's what a presidential candidate does from power. I address the teachers of Ukraine: Dear teachers, follow up the vote now in the Supreme Council. Like, which MPs, like, what faction will support the proposal to beat the President's veto and pay you off. And then you'll understand who's actually speaking in parliament, in society for supporting education, to pay everybody back the debts that have accumulated over the years. At your teaching conferences, you've just asked the people to do so, and the veto has been overtaken, and you've been paid off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u95	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u96	Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! There is no financial problem to solve this issue. This year, 4 billion dollars more from privatization than previously planned. So that's the question. Trying to block his solution is a diversion against the Ukrainian nation, against its future. And in terms of teachers, paying them their dues, these are the most effective investments in the development of the nation and the state. I urge everyone to vote in favour of the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u97	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u98	Victor Yuschenka's block of our Ukraine, Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, I've added two of these to my colleagues, they're very important to me. The first is that we're actually criticizing Leonid Kuchma, and that's correct, but all the warnings and suggestions are made by the government of Yanukovic. And we should say that against this bill and against this approach, the government of Yanukovic. The second thesis is very important. Here are two ideologies, two world views. Our approach is that teachers should receive a decent salary for their work. And the approach of the government of Viktor Yanukovic and Leonid Kuchma, if he supported them in this case, to add 10-20 bracelets to the teachers and turn them into propagandists during the presidential election campaign. And Parliament must show that it is a proponent of ideology to pay teachers a decent salary or turn them into a propagandist machine of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we're already motivated. The procedure is already being considered. I can't, Valery Mikhailovich, no. We only put before the vote with a motive. The motivations are running out of time. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules and Procedure, I am voting on the President of Ukraine's first proposal. No, no, the first sentence of the President of Ukraine is to reject the Ukrainian Act on the Restructuring of Debt and Payments under article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, registration number 3613. [[11:17:26]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukraine" - 57, Communist factions - 0, SDPU. May I have your attention, please? 14. "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 3, "The Hard Ukraine" - 28, "The People's Agrarian" - 0, SPI - 3, "The Timoshenko Block" - 0, "The Union" - 6, "The NPA, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 1, "The Centre" - 0, "The Postfactional" - 0. Mr. Stanisław Nikolaynko, please reposition the committee before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u100	The committee is now proposing the next step: vetoing. We will continue to speak after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u101	May I have your attention, please? Calm down, please! I am voting on the proposal of the veto committee for the Ukrainian Act on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in Article 57 of the Education Act, which has been proposed by the President of Ukraine since 20.07.2004. Registration number 3613. There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[11:19:04]] For 254 The factions, please. I hear you, fellows of honor, pay attention! "Our Ukraine" - 98, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 58, SDPU (0) - 3, Deminicatives, People's Government - 5, Hard Ukraine - 1, People's Agriculture - 21, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, Alliance - 5, NDP, industrials and entrepreneurs - 2, Centre - 15, Postfraction - 6. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You have 3613 in your hands: the Law on the Restructuring of Payments Debt, provided for in article 57 of the Education Act, which is educational, scientific and educational, and other categories of teaching staff with proposals from the President. We're going to take a few positions into account. Well, first of all, there's one position here: this is an article, part nine of the first article 57. As you know, for three years there were no plans to pay premiums, in the past, as you've seen, these and the orders are not about premiums. I mean, there's no subject for discussion. So the committee proposes that this position be removed as a partial compromise. With regard to the proposal made by Azarov Mikola Janović in article 2 to delete the word “equal parts”, the committee unanimously supported the decision yesterday. With regard to the exclusion of paragraph 25. I'm sorry, this is paragraph 6, and we have amendment number 25, so the committee is also proposing to delete it. With these suggestions in mind, I would like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u103	Yes, dear fellows. With motive? Please sign in. Three minutes of motive. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u105	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u106	Valerius Assadchev, "Our Ukraine." First of all, I wanted out of procedure, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It is not possible for our procedure to provide for unappealable statements by the vice-premier. He said that their government was not involved in these debts. What's not to do with it? Directly involved. In 2003, they formed a budget, stopped the implementation of these articles. The year 2004 was a budget year, and these articles were stopped. So this is directly related. Now for the suggestions. You can't delete the word in equal parts. You can at least delete the word "equal," but leave the word "parts" and necessarily "every year," because if you delete "equal parts," they're going to set a zero in 2005. They're not going to put anything down then, which is what they actually want to do. With regard to conforming with officials, we can agree in principle. The Yanukovich government won't do it, it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u107	Yes, Sinchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Rodion Mikhail Kuzmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u109	Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u110	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable radio audiences! What happened now that some of the deputies didn't support the veto is, I'll say, a disgrace. First of all, because no matter when this debt was incurred, any Government was the recipient of the subsequent debt, and therefore it was the duty of the State to pay the debt. And I think people need to know who did it, because every time they try to tell me how they're really "careing about education," but they've already led this education to impoverishment. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to enact this law, which unfortunately is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u111	Razwadowski, Democratic Initiatives, People's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to the national deputy, Toloczko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u113	Peter Toloczko, group “Democratic Initiatives, People's Rule”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, it would be ideal to overcome the President's veto and eventually complete this epoch with the payment of the 57th article and our debt to the teachers. Your debt, your governments have done. And since this has not happened, there is a proposal to support the second decision of the Committee on Science and Education, but perhaps with the refinement that Assadchev made: if not equal fortunes, it is a yearly payment so that no really one of the years is left behind from paying the teachers of their debts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u115	We need then, your honors, one minute, time is up, then we need to vote whether we delete the equal parts or leave it. So, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich? No, we have to decide to take the Supreme Council. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u116	We've just spoken to the members of the Committee, and we're proposing not to delete the word "equal parts," but only the word "equal." Since the government wants to put it out sooner, let us give them that right. And Valery Assadchev supports this, we clean up the word "equal." Do you have a deal? No, and later no, five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u117	It's a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u118	Yes. Please make a proposal to the Committee for which we will now vote. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u119	I suggest. Dear colleagues, you have a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u120	On page two.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u121	Please open it up, I propose to vote in favour of the Committee's proposals, the right column, as indicated here, except for one word: in article 2, take the word equal, and the rest leave it all behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, the Committee has proposed and proposed Article 2 to read: "The lending of the country's own budget, as set out in Article 1 of this Act, is required to be repaid, and is repaid for 5 years by equal parts, by including these expenses in the corresponding laws of Ukraine on the State budget" and further by text.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u123	"from 2005 onwards."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u124	Yeah, "starting in 2005." But now, please, but the government is proposing that we rule out and leave the "parts" Calm down, let the MPs understand. I will therefore put to the vote to leave this formulation in the law: the creditors' debt to the State budget of Ukraine set up by article one of this law is mandatory for repayment and is settled within five years by equal parts of the inclusion of these expenses by Ukraine's relevant laws on the State Budget of Ukraine, starting in 2005. Please vote. [[11:27:54]] For 414 Correction accepted. Now, dear fellows. The factions, please. Almost everyone voted. "Our Ukraine" - 94, "Regions of Ukraine" -59, Communists - 58, SDPU - 39, "Deminicatives", "The People's Government" - 24, Labour Ukraine - 30, People's Agriculture - 21, SPI - 16, Block Timoshenko - 18, "Soyuz" - 15, NDP, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 17, "Centre" - 15, "Affective - 8. I am now voting for the adoption of the new Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff, with partial consideration for the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 20.07.2004. Registration number 3613.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u125	The committee proposes to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u126	Please vote. [[11:29:15]] For 421 The law is passed. First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance requests a moment of time. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the session room and the committee for their constructive work and for the adoption of this important law. And literally two words why we proposed that Stanislav Nikolaenko turn off the words "equal". Yes, because in two years' time, we'll probably have no problem paying off that debt. That's why we're stretching this debt evenly for five years. That is the meaning of the proposal made to the Government by the Committee. In order to enable the Government, based on the economic opportunities of the country, this is the most important. We can't promise the impossible. To pay all debts incurred in previous years. You didn't support this proposal, but we voted against it, didn't we, Stanislav Nikolaevich? Yeah? Vote. So we'll fill it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u128	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Decision taken. Guys, there's no lamb, there's no motive, we've already done everything. You've already spoken. So, let's work. Dear colleagues, we should now consider the draft of the Law on Bread and Breadmaking. The author of this law asks that his consideration be moved to a later period for further further elaboration. That's why the draft Food Banks Act is under review. Ukrainian National Rapporteur Vaschuk Katerina Timofievna, co-reporter, will be the first deputy head of the Committee on the Affairs of Veterans and Disabled Persons, Aloshin Valerij Borisovich. Dear colleagues! Such a rule proposes a committee to report and answer questions for five minutes, for a logical report to be held within ten minutes. Is there no objection? We'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Statistics show that nearly 13 million Ukrainians are outside the poverty line and that many families, families of pensioners, families of disabled persons, and veterans are the most affected. So it's not by chance that the anti-poverty programme is defined in Ukraine as a priority, and our task as lawmakers is with you, every law that guides the implementation of this program. I will not characterize the causes of poverty and poverty. It's said very much, and everyone has at this point. Your point of view. For us, however, the main issue is the search for ways to overcome it and organize emergency relief for those who suffer from poverty and the lack of basic food. Society has given us authority and opportunities. Here, too, we are gathered to make legislation that will help people to live better with each year. Today, it is one of the laws that can help. It's about food banks. When I was getting ready for the speech, I thought the word "banks" would be kind of like that for the people's deputies. We're re-created banks. But it's a completely different system, a completely different institution. And the term "food bank" is not a commercial structure. Today, it is creating a system of charitable organizations that will help the poorest Ukrainians. Free address aid for food and medicine. Help for adults, children, the sick, the sick This law is in force in many nations of the world. He started such food banks, his activities in the United States back in 1967. It's happening all over Europe today. And I wanted us to take the best experience of these countries to Ukraine. What does this law foretell? This law provides food aid to systematize as a specific type of humanitarian aid, to settle congregation issues, to store, to distribute food, to undo abuse in this area, to strengthen sanitation. Tax benefits provided by the food bank system are open, transparent, accessible, and feasible to all who offer food aid. It stimulates increased charity movement, the movement of mecenity. For example, in 2002, food banks’ humanitarian aid through the European Federation of Food Banks reached 322 million euros for European citizens. In Ukraine this help is also significant. Over the past year, it has produced over 600 tons of food for our poorest citizens. The Food Banks Act contains open, detailed regulations on the Food Bank Institute. It regulates the legal status of these charities, establishes rules for registration, reporting, monitoring their activities, so that this law serves the interests of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, the committee supported. And as I turn to the Hall, I ask your support for this law as a law that will work for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u130	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Questions, I see, no questions. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Aloshin Valeriy Borisovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u131	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, reviewed the draft Food Banks Act submitted by a group of national deputies, and invites the Supreme Council to adopt it as a basis. The reporter had already stopped at the meaningful points of the bill. The committee in its analysis of the document concluded that there was a need to address the issue of the creation and operation of special organizations that provided assistance, namely, food banks. Creation. a system is needed to be controlled by the state and has a certain organizational orientation in providing food, medicine, food in public dining rooms, and so forth. At the same time, the committee also noted that other committees of the Supreme Council paid particular attention to some of the inaccuracies of the bill. For example, the decision to form a bank and a protocol for setting up congregations may hardly be a document. Pre-processing requires specific terms used in the project, such as those considered appropriate instead of the term "socially vulnerable groups" using the term "citizens who need social protection" and so forth. At the same time, certain chapters of the bill are needed to predict whether they should be responsible for the purposeless use of food and medicine, which is provided free of charge. Therefore, in view of the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the Committee sees the need to support the legislative initiative outlined and to take into account the observations made by the Supreme Council Committees, the Scientific and Scientific Administration and perhaps the National Deputies in further work on the document. The draft decision of the Supreme Council is added. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u132	Thank you, Valery Borisovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, we have six national deputies. Ten minutes to talk. Please, Mironenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u133	5 constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! The leader of the Communist Party of Ukraine and all members of the IPU faction call for a vote in favour of the bill, which takes into account the current bitter reality of capitalist reality, the problem of poverty. However, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko, on behalf of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, repeatedly says that not only the consequences but also the reason why those who now say "young people" should be eliminated from the place they never spoke about and would not say, because they are once interested in maintaining the current focus and feeling that the pill should be placed on the poor people in the form of separate bills for which they may vote before the elections. [[These are so-called Democrats, but actually supporters of capitalism.]] We wish to draw attention to the fact that capitalism is the primary cause. Let us remember that there were no overrich, no oligarch thieves and no poor people in the socialist direction. We had an average standard of living. This is recognized by the United Nations. And we would develop this focus, develop the economy, address the shortcomings that have been, ensure the freedom of entrepreneurship, small, medium-sized enterprises and so on. But we went to a different extreme: everyone was put under the knife of privatization, and the economy was destroyed. And let's just say the truth. They are talking about growth, and why is there no rise in the standard of living of the people? It is not clear that there is no real economic growth. There are only certain developments in selected industries, in particular the export of metals and so on, raw materials. That's what we're all about. And, of course, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko believes that it is necessary to stop, we have already spoken on several occasions, this plundering privatization, and the proposal is opposed by the majority, the overwhelming majority of the presidential candidates. We believe that it is necessary to eliminate poverty, to ensure that all work is done, of course, by the State programme. And in the programme of Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko, this is precisely what is reflected in the creation of new jobs. If individual politicians have this too, but the actual fulfillment of the same pre-election promises is not certain, because they have no interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u134	Please, National Deputy Carmazin. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u135	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! He opened the law first, second when he was reworked, looked at the list of authors, wanted to cry. What? In addition to Suškević, who is really engaged in the protection of the disabled; Raisa Bogatirov, "Regions"; Tolstouchov, Herasimov, Bahtiev, Vaszczuk. You represent all, the vast majority, the majority of the Supreme Council. And now it's found that 13 million need social assistance. The very active social policy offered by Victor Yushchenk's Block of Our Ukraine and the candidate for the presidents himself will make Yushchenko totally useless and unnecessary this law is the first time. We suggest a slightly different approach. What is this law? By the way, if you call it right, it would be called Food and Drug Banks, because drugs are not food. It's completely out of proportion to the name of the substance and the content. But let's say so, when do we start, in the end, adopting those laws, as is the logic of lawmaking? There is the Law on Charity and Charity Organizations. It must be part of this law. Now you're talking about America's experience. America went to this law, you know why? Just because food manufacturers who have been in the market have not been able to implement their food products at the normal cost: damaged, not yet done there, the deadline for implementation is over, and it is not effective to dispose of them. They pass these products on to special food banks for him. I'm afraid they're going to give out expired foods. I fear that, and in the end, the population of Ukraine deserves a completely different life. Now, about the legislative novelties in this project. For the first time, this project has already been implemented and reviewed by the Supreme Council, this is number 71-67. And it was broken by the Supreme Council, and it was quite right to fail. Now, now you're filing the project again. In fact, some of them are duplicated by the current legislation and the Law on Economic Associations and Charity. Next. You write "friendly tax terms." What is it, explain it to me? What are favourable tax conditions? Where is this written in the Tax Code? Then you write, you have article 60, "The order of food," and then you have 70 immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u136	Thank you. Please. You have already completed 3.14. Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u137	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I have received a little green tract today that presents some of the problems of the creation and existence of such food banks in the world as a whole, and even in Ukraine. And what I want to do is, by referring to this tract, offer you an estimate, and how many of these banks should a poor person get per month per day? If in 2003 the food banks of Ukraine are stockpiling 120 tons of aid, and we have this tract in our possession, and we all know it, the 12 million-dollar army of citizens who suffer from hunger and poverty. We're going to distribute this 120 tons by 12 million, and we're going to have a figure with you 10 grams per year or one grams per month. The question is: Can such a system of banks protect people? No, she can't. So the Communist candidate for the President of Ukraine, Peter Simonenko, spoke plainly from this very rostrum yesterday that 40 percent of the crops died this year. Peter Simonenko has urged us, with you parliamentarians at the legislative level, to commit the government to at least 50 percent of the grain to collect and decide to ban the export of grain from Ukraine. And the third. Peter Simonenko stressed that it is not about social bread, but about a half billion dollars to give free bread to pensioners. This is exactly the position of candidate for Communist President Peter Simonenko. Even though there are shortcomings in this bill that I am now commenting on, this bill can be said to be a maraffee or make-up on the savage face of modern Ukrainian capitalism. But let us be frank with you about how we can accomplish what Peter Simonenko suggested today? Not today, but after the people of Ukraine have chosen their most outstanding and best son as President, we will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u138	Yes, one minute, please, Dry, the Hard Ukraine faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u139	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Trouble Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! If the main warning against this bill is the copyright team, I would like to remind you that one of the authors of this bill is Mikola Grigorovich Zulinski, who is not a majority, does not belong to the Communist faction or any other faction. And we're not returning to the food banks for the first time, we're just obliged to solve it today in this room because today, especially the slow pace of overcoming the social consequences of market transformations, which colleagues have already talked about here, the need to adapt, the social adaptation of our citizens in the new conditions of farming and the life of our society require solving these issues, which would regulate the legal status, order of creation, activity and liquidation of such organizations as food banks. I want to support my colleague, Aloshin Valery Borisovich, in terms of how this system of adaptation, social adaptation of our citizens is being set up and developed, it's about a systematic approach to the provision of charity, because given the different aspects of the social impact of our markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u140	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u141	Today, the issue of regulation, the accumulation of food and medicine for further supply to charitable organizations or citizens becomes particularly relevant. And the last. Indeed, some positions have a declarative character, and since this is a new issue, there are clearly a number of observations. The parliamentary faction of the political party "Trudova Ukraine" calls for the session hall to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The time we spent discussing it, we even made use of it. I'm voting on the adoption of the Food Banks Act, registration number 3259 on the first reading. Please vote. [[11:51:23]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's go over the section with the reduced procedure. There is a draft decree on the 60th anniversary of the Yaltine Conference of Heads of State of the Anti-Hitler Coalition. Registration number 5610. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u143	Grachev, faction of the Communist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow MPs! At its meeting on 16 June, the Committee considered a draft decree to mark the 60th anniversary of the Yaltine Conference of the Heads of State of the Anti-Hitler Coalition, introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Rahanski, Sharov, Olijnikmo, Widow and others, and decided to set up a working group of committees with the participation of the authors of the draft regulation - number 5610 - for its work. On June 30th, the Committee considered the project's version of the project that had been finalized by the members of the working group and agreed with the authors of the 5610 project: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept this finalized project. The draft regulations take into account the observations and proposals made by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Institute of International Relations of the Kyiv National University of Taras Shevchenk. It should also be added that this project is supported by the National Institute of Strategic Research and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, as evidenced by the respective letters signed by their leaders. The committee is therefore asking to support the adoption of the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u144	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, are we going to discuss this? Then I will continue our session until the conclusion of my consideration of the matter. The word is given to Mironka. Prepare the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u145	Respectable compatriots. Mironenko, fifth constituency, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The Committee on Foreign Affairs had a rather heated discussion on this issue. Some deputies suggested that we limit ourselves to the fact that we should celebrate some anniversary of the United Nations, but not the Yaltin Conference. But ultimately, we were able to insist on the need to consider this issue in the Hall and to endorse the bill. The adoption of this bill will emphasize Ukraine's role in the Second World War, in the destruction of aggressive forces, in the rescue of humanity from the horrors of fascism, and in the establishment of the United Nations. The adoption of the bill would raise Ukraine's positive image in the world and enhance its authority. You all know that in individual States, and above all in the most powerful State in the world, the role of the United States of America is being stung and the role of our country, Ukraine, is being completely suppressed. Both in Ukraine and around the world should know about this. If this law were to be adopted, it would not only have a positive effect on what I had said before, but perhaps even in economic terms it would be beneficial. For there will be much more foreign tourists in the same Yalta, bringing with us the currency we need. The leader of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine - Petr Nikolayevich Simonenko - invites all members of the people to display a patriotic position in this case. Not to think of the benefits of not adopting the bill and to sing to those individuals abroad who are not interested in adopting the bill, but of thinking about the interests of our country, which, often, the minds, forget. We often hear that some presidential candidates beat themselves in the chest say they're such patriots! But why do these patriots actually destroy their own country and do not fully feel sorry for it, do not feel sorry for their own people. Why did they continue to decide the same course of government beyond this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Dudienko Hennaday Josephovich of the Human Rights Committee. Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank my colleague Karmazin for giving me his place in the presentation, because the co-authors of the project, because I have all the 40-year-old activities associated with the United Nations organization, I was very much asked to speak. And I would ask that you use my speech as one that advocates the decision of the Yaltine Conference to create the United Nations and, taking into account Ukraine’s contribution to the victory over Hitler’s Fascism, Ukraine was invited to become the founder of the United Nations. There were 51 countries, including the then Soviet Union, Ukraine, and Belarus. And Ukraine from the very beginning of its activities in the United Nations despite its specificities, since we did not have our own foreign policy, but we gained great authority. By 1946, Ukraine had been elected a member of the Security Council. In all, Ukraine’s history has been elected three times to the Security Council, including when Ukraine has become an independent state. Few nations in the world can boast that they have been chosen so many times before the United Nations. Ukraine and was directly involved in drafting the statutes of the United Nations Organizations, including the Preamble of the Charter, was prepared by a committee that was then headed by the then minister, the drug lord of Ukraine’s foreign affairs, Dmitry Manuelski. And now, in recent years, Ukraine has been re-elected to both the Security Council and the UN Economic Social Council, and is now a member, and the representative of Ukraine was elected president of the 52nd session of the General Assembly for the first time in the history of the United Nations. And this list is going to be extended. Ukraine has been actively taking important initiatives in the United Nations for a long time. The project is quite perfect. It includes specific actions related, I stress, to the activities of the United Nations and the role of Ukraine in this organization. I'd like to support the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u148	Thank you. I can't see. Then, please, National Deputy Rahansky, Hard Ukraine, behind him School.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u149	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Trudova Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Your opinion is proposed for a draft Supreme Council ruling. It was in Yalta from February 4 to 11, 1945 that a historic conference with all its unforgivable decisions summed up the first summations of the horrors of war, made the nations reflect on their future, and created a new international body that would unite nations in peaceful coexistence, eliminating the possibility of a third world war. That is where the final decision on the establishment of the United Nations organization and the rules of procedure were taken in the vote of the Security Council. The conference invited Ukraine to become a founding member of the United Nations. This is a recognition of the contribution of the Ukrainian people to the collapse of fascism, as well as the great human and material loss of Ukraine in this war. UN membership has opened the way for Ukraine to claim itself from high international rostrums. Colleagues, the nations of the world today are concerned about the existence in a number of regions of the planet of the earth of instability, of aggression, of terror. That is why the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at its sessions is considering strengthening the UN to strengthen its consolidating role. Members of our delegation in PARJE Olijnik, Rahanski, speak at the Paris sessions on this issue with proposals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. A group of Ukrainian national deputies, some 20 people, including famous historians, diplomats, academics, Kuras, Udovenko - President of the 52nd session of the United Nations General Assembly, Olijnik Boris Ilchi academic, along with the U.S. Association for the Promotion of the United Nations, taking into account the responsibility of our State as the founding member of the United Nations for promoting peace and security, for developing friendly relations among peoples, for preparing a draft decree. It will promote the authority of the UN, increase the social weight of parliamentaryism, increase the positive image of Ukraine on the world stage, enable our country to take a number of actions with the participation of representatives of international state and public organisations, and produce harmonized approaches and recommendations. Colleagues, allow me to thank the people's deputies. The UN, the diplomats who made a number of right proposals and we were counted. Draft resolution supported by the Committees on Foreign Affairs, on culture and spirituality, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Chief Science and Export Authority. Please, Your Honor, vote in favour of this decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u150	Thank you, Anatoly Bartholomew. The word is given by the national deputy of the school, the faction of the block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u151	Thank you, School Andrew, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. I would like to say right now that I would rather be at this meeting of this working group to refer to the category of national MPs who stood up for the idea that we should have discussed the creation of the UN, the significant contribution of Ukraine to the victory over the fascist invaders, the fact that Ukraine was one of the UN's founders and so forth. But talking about noting the Yaltic Conference itself is essentially not true. Because it was at the Yaltine Conference that an agreement was made to redistribute borders in Europe. Ukraine then lost much of the land. In Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, no one asked anyone, was slaughtered alive. And now in the Supreme Council, we have to look at laws that would protect the rights of those Ukrainians who were forcibly displaced from the Ukrainian territories that had gone to other states. Similarly, those nations that have now considered the legal protection of those representatives of their national minorities who have been displaced from Ukrainian territory. The distribution was live. For me, the very content of the decision is acceptable, but the name is unacceptable. Because there's an old saying: whatever the name of the ship is, it's going to swim. That's why I would stress. When editing a name, you might agree with the content. And that's why I'd like to emphasize that and look first to the hall. Let's finally be representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a question. No one's going to look at the borders here, come back. But it is not worth celebrating, so it is important to observe the time when Ukraine lost land when it was. [[B in m in s a l in]] What did she lose? I'll tell you. The Dutch had been lost, separated from Ukraine by the Dutch, the Overseer, and the Zakirzonna. I say again, you remember the story when Stalin liberated Western Ukraine, that the Premystal was introduced into the composition of the Ukrainian Soviet Republic. So let's not. I'm going to emphasize, I'm going to address those people who aren't darkened, whose consciousness isn't darkened by the past: let's think about the future. It's not worth making decisions that are embarrassing, at least, our historical past, because that's where Yalta was. Yalta has adopted quite a number of documents that are worth noting and honoring. That is why this decree would have to be called honoring the sixtieth anniversary of the introduction of Ukraine and the establishment by Ukraine of the United Nations. That would be understandable, that would be acceptable and, again, that would be stately. In this situation you can come up with a lot of names. For example, there was a mixed interpretation in many parts of the population of Ukraine. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u152	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down! Calm down! In line with the rule of the Rules on what a presiding officer should do, let's not do it anyway!Oh, my God! Remember Stalin, and we thank him for finally gathering the Ukrainian lands together. This is also a historical truth. Yes. Please, on the grounds of the vote of the Kuras Academy. Please. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I literally wanted to say a few words about that. First. Early in the summer, we had an international convention of parliamentary leaders in Yalta, the Libyan Palace. In order for this convention to take place, there was a question about the sixtie ’ s of the Yaltine Conference. I mean, the international community has already begun its own debate on this issue. And we can't stay away. We have to support this. There were reports and discussions. And the second. In terms of distribution lines, so-called. This question is really being discussed, but it is Yalta's lesson that today, when we talk about the European choice of Ukraine, we don't allow new distribution lines and so on, and we have to support the proposal made and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the decree to mark the 60th anniversary of the Yaltine Conference of Heads of State of the Anti-Hittler Coalition. Registration number 5610. The whole decision is taken. [[12:09:03]] For 301 It's been decided. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 56, "Ukraine" - 53, "Communist faction - 58, "Deminiciates" - 38, "Deminiciates" - 0, "The People's Government" - 30, "The People's Agrarian Party - 18, "SPU - 12, "Timoshenko Block - 1, "Centre" - 0, "The Union" - 15, "The National Agrarian Party" - 17, "The Union" - 3. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u155	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Let's keep working. A draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the detection and cessation of competition between competitors]] The reporter is the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Melnichenko Alexander Ivanovich. The focal point will be by Private Vladimir Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u156	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the noble national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Codes is submitted by the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee in conjunction with the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. A bill aimed at improving the legal mechanism for detecting and ending the secret alliances between competitors that are most destructive to market mechanisms. Today, this is the biggest unresolved problem in implementing competitive policy. First, the project is designed to amend article 228 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine by establishing criminal responsibility for the secret competitions concerning: price setting, production limits, market distribution, removal of a competitor from the market. These types of anticompetitive concerted action are so - called classical cartels and are always considered extremely dangerous. For example. In the Seoul Competition Forum, it was reported that only 16 of the 133 world's hidden controversies caused damage to the economies of the countries that had the consequences of these plots, a sum of $55 billion. Secondly, the project foresees that investigations into these crimes can be carried out alternately both by the Ukrainian Security and Internal Affairs and by the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. The adoption of the law will significantly improve the effectiveness of the economic competition system in Ukraine, prevent the economic crisis associated with the secret conspiracies of powerful market players. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement Supports and Recommends its adoption as a Basis. In part, I would like to thank you for actively participating in the drafting of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Bill, Volodymyr Romanovich Moisik, Vladimir Pavlovich Neciporuk, Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk, and First Deputy Chief Justice, Philipczuk Petr Pilipovich. Given the urgent need to regulate competition and consumer protection issues, I strongly ask you to support the draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Codes and to adopt it in the first reading. [[No. 5276]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u157	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, please. Then we ask the head of the committee, Musik Volodymyr Romanovich. Who will report from the committee? The committee's decision is to take it as a basis. Yes, is there a need to discuss the matter? Yes, please state on board the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mironenko Victor, the Communist faction, please. Get ready for Carmazine. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Prepare Solomon. Invite the national deputies to the session hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u158	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! From this rostrum a few years ago, I reported to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. It contained an article in which it was written just as it is now. But in 20.08.2002 the government initiated the Antimonopoly Committee to amend the articles of this article in the Criminal Code. The full text of the explanatory note is given to you in the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with which the Antimonopoly Committee and Government then motivated change. I have to say that this article was then adopted, which is proposed to change exactly a year ago, in 2003. And now that I've analyzed the changes that are being proposed, I don't think I can accept them. Why? They are completely out of date and are provided with sanctions. Penalties ranging from seven to twelve years of imprisonment a valid criminal code provides for such really dangerous acts as assaulting the territorial integrity of a state that has led to the death of people or the rape of a minor, and so forth, not for conspiracy to commit administrative misconduct. It is far more appropriate to apply more appropriate penalties in the form of fines to the harmful effects of certain economic measures. That's another argument against what's being proposed. The distribution of the part of the first article of the 228th project, unlike the actual one, does not contain the necessary criminalization signs of action that are characteristic of other articles of the Criminal Code, such as indications of severe or other substantial negative effects of action, way, time, place, instrument of action, etc. According to the current article 11 of the Criminal Code, only social and dangerous acts can be defined, that is, they can cause significant harm to a natural or legal person, society or state. And even under such conditions, under a large part of the social and dangerous activities, the Code on Administrative Offences provides, not criminal, but administrative responsibility. The project does not take into account that, in addition to all relevant actions, responsibility is also provided for under the Code on Administrative Violations (Article 165, bearing the symbol 2 "Contravention of the formation, establishment and application of prices and tariffs, 166-1 "Monoply Abuse in the Market", 166-2 "Unlawful Agreements between Entrepreneurs" and at the same time the existence of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition by the Criminal Code of Legal Responsibility for the same activities is clearly contrary to articles 21, 24 and 57, and 62. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u159	Yes, thank you. Yuri Solomatin, please. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u160	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are considering a government bill with you today. The bill was introduced by the government of capitalist ministers, which aims to establish a relationship between those who violate bourgeois legislation for the sake of immediate enrichment and those who seem to be on the watch for this legislation. But we all know from our own experience of life in the Soviet Union, in a socialist society, that it is possible to overcome such crimes not only in terms of intent but also in terms of a socio-economic system, one that we had in the Soviet Union, in the Soviet Ukraine. And in capitalist, modern, bourgeois-democracy Ukraine, we're going to be constantly citing either a maraffee, or a make-up to bourgeois legislation, and taking little steps to limit and improve legislation aimed at preventing these criminal, criminal conspiracies. And finally, it's going to be a permanent, eternal process. Taking this into account, our faction, when discussing this bill, has found it appropriate to take a position of support for this bill with the following considerations: the first consideration is that, given the impunity involved, even any small legislative improvement in existing legislation, it is a slightly better situation and will work for our people. And secondly, we understand that this is not a definitively solved issue, and that is why it is a possible solution for a candidate in Ukraine's presidentship, Peter Simonenka, and this program provides for such major, key positions as this: first, to review the results of criminal privatization, where it was conducted outside the law, where it was conducted by looting methods, and secondly: to make sure that those laws, even the bourgeois ones, are active, and the law enforcement authorities that are actually on the watch of the laws and interests of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u161	Yes. Jaroslav Suhi, Ukrainian Labour faction
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u162	Honorable national MPs, forcing anticompetitive concerted action is a crime. I don't understand the liberal mood here of some colleagues who say it's not a serious crime. It's a serious crime. As each crime, it has its own nature and has its heavy consequences, including for the economy. Therefore, the responsibility for coercing anticompetitive concerted action must be to the highest extent stipulated by legislation. Of course, this bill and this truth are causing, triggering and causing a mixed perception, because, you know, this standard of sanctions in article 228 of the Criminal Code was in force by April 2003, and then we changed. But the truth is that today the responsibility for acts that qualify as criminal is determined by the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition and the Code of Administrative Violations. You remember that we were there foreshadowing fines for these crimes. The number 5276 bill will expand the list of actions, and this is what we need to talk about in the session room, and the list of actions that is defined as criminal will be expanded. In particular, I am addressing Ukrainian national deputies of majorities, who are often confronted with such violations, which are often referred to by industry and entrepreneurs. I mean actions aimed at removing goods from the market, restrictions on access to the market of other operators. Thus, with a view to avoiding actions that would result in the restriction or elimination of competition in the market for certain types of goods, this bill must be supported. And one more thing. We conclude that such implementation of this bill, the implementation of the norms and sanctions provided for in this law, will necessarily have positive social consequences. In addition, I ask all Ukrainian MPs to point out that this bill, if adopted, will contribute to further development and improvement of small, medium-sized enterprises. On the basis of these circumstances, the MP's faction of the "Hard Ukraine" political party will vote in favour of this bill, and you also support the creation of a session hall. And the last. Dear colleagues, I understand that we have a presidential election in our time, and I understand that some of the people's deputies can and will use this rostrum to campaign for their presidential candidate. I'm asking you for one thing. Don't make me laugh. Because when it comes to technology law, it's called the name of the future candidate of the Presidents, it's funny and ridiculous, in Russian. Let us, Your Honor, abide by some of the popular standards and to the utmost extent adhere to our pre-election agitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u163	Question completed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft law on the amendment of the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the detection and termination of competition between competitors, registration number 5276. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:56:11]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act on Amendments to Article 206 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Responsibility for Obstacles to Legal Economic Activity is being announced for consideration, registration number 4066. Reporter of the Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Auxientiev Yuri Anatoliyovich. Get Andrew School ready from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u164	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 206 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which is designed to carry out the President's mandate. According to the Universal Council on Small and Medium Business Development, held in 2002. The proposed draft law aims to improve the level of protection of the rights of business entities, prevent abuse of power, or service status in relation to them. I would like to point out that today the government, in particular the U.S. State Enterprise, has received many requests from business entities to create obstacles to their legitimate economic activity, which are required to force the transfer of funds to various charitable and other similar funds. In fact, in most cases it is a hidden form of bribe. Ukraine's draft law is intended to supplement article 206 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code with the aim of establishing criminal responsibility for obstacles to legal economic activity, which are reflected in the requirement for entities to recalculate funds to funds that are made by law on a voluntary basis. Presently, criminal law provides for responsibility for resisting legitimate economic activity, coupled with the threat of violence against the victim or his loved ones, article 206. But there is no definite responsibility for the actions that we mention. The implementation of the bill does not require material or other expenses. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the project will increase the level of protection of the rights of business entities and increase criminal responsibility for obstacles to legal economic activity. I also note that this bill has come a long way. She turned him down. There was a rejection from the Attorney General's Office, there was support from the Supreme Court, three cabinet meetings. Please support the adoption of the draft Ukrainian law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u165	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Andrew Schlell, head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement. Make the position of the committee public.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u166	Thank you. Well, I'm going to start, really, in a committee position. The meeting was heated, it was discussed long enough, because the question was so that it could be understood what was going on. There is a state - owned foundation, and there are certain ways of forcing individuals to pay for entrepreneurial activities there. But here, too, I really don't agree with the opinions of many members of the majority committee who rejected this bill, that the budget should then be provided for those institutions and organizations that have these funds. And on the other hand, we just have to ban state-owned enterprises from having other funds, other material investments in their own business, other than the budget. There are no such predictions, so the project is rather vague. There are no absolute estimates. And I think that the Attorney General has rejected not so much that it was somehow convenient for them or not, but that there are enough slippery points that do not provide for specific responsibility and those that are being forced and those who are being forced; and how do you distribute all of these weights, how do you determine whether they were forced or not, whether it was voluntary or not? You just have to solve the problem in a different way. And I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers: we have to ban all state institutions from having other funds and other investments in their financial activities, other than state funds. I mean, look, there's the Ministry of Internal Affairs. There are several funds in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there's the Attorney General's Office, there's a fund, tax on how many funds there are. And here, no matter what we do, there'll still be those who pay for these funds. The simplest and best way is to liquidate these funds, figure out how much these funds make profits, and predict, at least, a step-by-step payment through the budget, but through the budget, not through the envelopes, because of the pressure. We remember the money situation when a fund was set up at the University of Suma, a newly created university, where it was said that those who did not pay the money could simply not file the documents. It was a hidden form of pressure. We did not foresee a responsibility, it should be simpler: when a crime can be prevented, it is not necessary to foresee an increase in criminal responsibility for it. We can prevent crime by simply taking and banning it. And such a bill is being prepared at the top of our committee: to ban budget organizations from having private, public, private funds with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u167	On the board, describe the names of the national MPs who have been enrolled for discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u168	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Law enforcement funds and law enforcement funds are being filled in by all the so - called, law enforcement structures, beginning with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the Tax Service, and even the courts. And no one is paying attention to that. How many times have we talked about this! Where is the guarantor of the Constitution? Who signed this bill now? A bill with only a few words. Presidential candidate Prime Minister Janukovic. I'm reminding you, I'm back from Church tonight. There are commitments in hospitals — commitments! - to vote for Yanukovich. There are tax obligations to vote for Yanukovic. Take separate vouchers at businesses. Your Honor, isn't that a reason? Is that not the reason? Isn't that pressure on entrepreneurs? And we're talking about an extra article. For the time being, however, there are articles in the Criminal Code that provide for criminal responsibility. This is 191, 364, 423, which says that abuse of power or service is an abuse of power. This is the classic abuse of power and the abuse of power -- when people are forced against the law, contrary to the Constitution. So we just have to obey the laws. And there is now a failure to implement laws by the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the IMF, the Security Service, taxation and so on. You know, maybe the CIA. But the CIA has tax. The President's office is not being taken into custody by people whose assistants are arrested with huge bribes, it was in the Odessa area. With the big ones! And the notes, they all stand out in a criminal case. But in the CIA before the Administration, there are no substitutes for those who have also compromised themselves in which criminal cases have been committed. And today, it's in the President's Office. You want to hide from criminal responsibility, pay the money, and go under Medvedchuk's roof. So, Your Honor, let's say that. The legal language of this bill is imperfect absolutely, and rightly the Scientific and Scientific Administration has said that it needs substantial work. When will we listen to the experts ’ thoughts? Substantial processing. In other words, no one needs him at all, just obey the law and fear the Lord God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u169	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u170	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. How many amendments can be made to the Criminal Code on Administrative Violations? Why is no one punished for multiple violations? As the shadow economy flourished, so did it. Today's oligarchs are thinking, for example, "Why should I pay taxes on the construction of free hospitals if I'm still stuck in these hospitals by the poor, retired people? It should be borne in mind that taxation in Ukraine is also a factor such as shadow. More than 60 per cent of all Ukrainian enterprises work in the shadow sector. Of course, no taxes are paid at all by such organizations. To all of this, the practice of concessional taxation of the banks of the joint venture, as well as of all enterprises in the free economic zones, can be added today. To sum it up, there is a fantastic tax saving system in Ukraine. But Ukrainian financial hubs need to divert people's attention from the real causes of the destruction of enterprises and the entire national and economic complex of the country, and the real reasons for this were not taxes, but rather more serious reasons. First. Liberalization of the whole economy when prices are not regulated when goods from one industry are not marketed and other industries cannot acquire these goods. Second. the absence of a normal credit system. There was a time when the rate of credit exceeded 100 per cent. Thirdly, totally unregulated foreign trade. And fourthly, the purchasing power of the population is low. Finally, after a prolonged multi-year inflation period, the working capital of enterprises has not been indexed?In fact, enterprises have lost almost all their working capital and thus the possibility of updating the core funds for the purchase of the necessary raw materials and kits. These destructive factors have enabled newly-frozen Ukrainian capitalists to quickly confiscate fabulous capital. What used to belong to the entire Soviet people today came into the hands of Ukrainian oligarch capitalists. And even if the law were to be amended, those factors must be considered to destroy the economy of the whole country and to fight them more fiercely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u171	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u172	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the attitude of our faction towards this bill is already clear from the speech of my colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Tihonovich Puzakov. And I want to emphasize that there is only one thing that cannot be done about this law on a fundamental basis, because capitalism cannot be improved and human face added to it -- it will always be beastly. We have it normal, from a socio-classical point of view. And whoever does not understand, or hides, is the same enemy of our afflicted people. And the rest of the time. Which I have, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I appeal to you today on 9 September to celebrate the 90th anniversary of the Talirgofu tragedy, when during the first world war in the Talirgof concentration camp, the civilized European country of Austria-Hungary brought down more than 30,000 Rusins who suffered in these concentration camps for their belongings for their loyalty to national and linguistic identity. This was the first example of Europe being bullied by the people, by the Russians, by our brothers. On September 9, at Lichakovsky Cemetery in Lviv, people dedicated to this matter gather to the memory of those who gave up their lives 90 years ago. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have Bill 53-82, draft decree on this subject, and I would like to ask you to bring it into the agenda at the next meeting, and in September, we have adopted this decree, which provides for very simple things. There is a mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to undertake certain measures aimed at organizing memorial sites in connection with the Talirgofu tragedy, as well as certain information measures to commemorate the Talirgofu tragedy Thank you for your attention. Hopefully that's how it's going to happen. And in September we vote in favour of sorting the memory of the victims of Talirgofu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u173	Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to prepare a commission for the committees to consider the matter and make appropriate proposals. Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply embarrassed to talk here about the fact that this session hall should be about a specific bill when it comes to drafting bills. People listen to us, not just in Ukraine. It seems to us that we have not read or used the rostrum specifically to make people smile in this room or in the rostrum or beyond. This is about Bill 4066. He's simple and clear. And it's about specific things, about the beatings by executive authorities on businessmen and entrepreneurs and the banning of these fights, and the banning of these fights, and the imposition of strict criminal responsibility with specific sanctions. We are speaking here from this rostrum, and it is stated in the Rules that if the speaker speaks against the subject, the chairman can stop his speech, and let him go to the rally square and tell people about a happy future. I call on all Ukrainian national deputies to respect ourselves. I am convinced that the changes to article 206 of the Criminal Code proposed by the government will be supported in this room. Because every major deputy knows what conditions our business, a small, medium-sized enterprise, is operating today, how it lives, how an industrial enterprise lives, especially today and in further pre-election battalions, when it seems that some charity fund is being replenished to make people pay large sums. I'm saying there's a senior MP from the Zaporozhye area who can confirm it. Two years ago, private notaries brought us a letter from the government saying that everyone has a private notary to pay this amount of money to a charity fund there. And only with the help of the media have we managed to break this simple practice, and the additions, the remarks to article 206 of the Criminal Code did not exist at that time. That's what this bill is about. You know, in view of that, I would think, I think that both the faction and the Hard Ukraine will support me, we probably need to make it more clear in the second reading, and it is absolutely necessary to make the committee more professional, to write more clearly the sanctions that apply to violations by officials or officials, or, as they call them, the "person in positions" who do this kind of pressure. And there's another thing to consider: I ask my colleague to think about the phenomenon that we're talking about right now: the negative social, the political consequences of this kind of action. And so we're discrediting the very idea, the good idea of community charity funds that are helping people today to adapt to the uncomplicated conditions in which we live with you. With such changes to the Criminal Code, we are able to prevent abuse by the authorities or by the official position in relation to operators, the deputy faction of the political party "Trug Ukraine" is proposing a bill under number 4066 to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been reviewed. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending article 206 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 4066. [[on responsibility for obstructing legitimate economic activity]] Please vote. [[13:15:25]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft law amending the Criminal Code is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for trafficking in persons and for engaging in prostitution]] Registration numbers 4280, 4179. Reporters are the first Deputy Minister of Interior, Kornienko Mikhailo Vasilovich, National Deputy of Ukraine, Bujko Georgi Volodymyrovich. A national deputy of John will speak from the committee. Yes, please, Mikhail Vasilovich Kornienko. Deputy Minister Zubchuk. There's a replacement, isn't there?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u176	. Ukraine 'To amend the Criminal Code on the Strengthening of the Fight against Trafficking in Persons by Prostitution and Substitution' has been developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in conjunction with the Ministry of Justice, with the participation of the Supreme Court of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The draft was designed to prepare draft legislation necessary for the ratification of additional protocols to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime of the General Assembly since 15 November 2000. The need for the adoption of this law is due to the fact that crimes involving trafficking and the involvement of a person in prostitution and subterfuge constitute a transnational type of crime. They have become a pressing problem for Ukraine and tend to grow. In particular, during the current year alone, 111 criminal cases in this category have been investigated by Internal Affairs. Do!Oh, my God! responsibilities have been claimed by 139 victims of 346 deaths. The main difference in the position of the bill, which is proposed for consideration under article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, is a clearer and more explicit definition of illegal acts, a prediction of more severe punishment, and an approximation of the article's disposition to international norms. In particular, it is suggested that criminal responsibility be provided for the recruitment, transportation, transfer, concealment or retention of a person by means of violence or threats to his or her use. Kidnapping, abuse of trust, abuse of authority, or position of duty or vulnerability, as well as other forms of coercion for the purpose of exploitation. The basis of this crime is proposed to consider unlawful acts committed by a relative minor, relative to two or more persons repeatedly or under the previous conspiracy of a group of persons, as well as committed by an organized criminal group with the aim of being expelled from organs or tissues for transplantation or for the use of donor violence, or if it has resulted in the death of people or other serious consequences. The issue of countering trafficking in human beings is directly linked to the struggle to engage in prostitution and pimping. Previously, Ukraine’s Criminal Code of 1960 did not provide for criminal liability for prostitution, and since 1987 it has been viewed as an administrative offence. Article 303 of the new Criminal Code provides for criminal responsibility for systematic prostitution, while other European Union countries' legislation does not specifically criminalize prostitution. At the same time, the introduction of responsibility for prostitution in the Criminal Code reduced the likelihood of reports of trafficking in human beings, since the victim himself faces the possibility of criminal persecution. The difference between the bill proposed and the current article is decriminalizing responsibility for systematic prostitution and increasing the responsibility for prostitution: restrictions on the right to freedom up to five years, including for minors, increasing the responsibility to be deprived of liberty by seven years, as well as pimping. In particular, the project proposes to provide criminal responsibility for involving a person in prostitution as a hallmark, engaging in the prostitution of a minor, and providing guidance or participation by an organized group that provides for the provision of sexual services to persons involved in prostitution. The introduction of article 303 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to the provisions of the laws of the Council of Europe will give persons engaged in prostitution and victims of trafficking in legal instruments to protect against the practice of coercion and abuse without any discrimination. The adoption of the law will generally have a positive effect on the outcome of the fight against such crimes, as well as on the promotion of Ukraine’s image and authority. The adoption of the project does not require additional financial costs from the State budget. The project is considered on the profile committees and supported. Dear National Deputies! Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u177	Yes, thank you, Victor Andryovich. Have a seat, please. National MP Ivanov, please, from the committee. Is there a Ivanov? Please. Then describe the parliamentary bill as well. Both.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u178	Well, this is where we had to report our candidate to the Presidents of Nechiporuku, but he took off somewhere. That's why the committee asked me to do it. Well, given what's been taught, I don't want to repeat what the reporter reported. The Committee considers it possible to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its first reading, to consider the draft Ukrainian law on amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking into account the specific provisions contained in the Bill of National Deputies of Ukraine Bajka and Stretovic. [[Registration number 4280]] Note also of the proposals of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which is the first reading, and then we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u179	Yes, let's move on to the discussion. On the board are the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled for discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Weak Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u180	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that this project is almost word for word repeating the text of draft number 4179 on amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bujkom and Stretovich. In the scientific world, it's usually called plagiarism. I'm talking to the government. Because it was introduced earlier. So it's not valid from a scientific point of view. Next. Both have serious conceptual flaws that have been overlooked. The project does not provide for responsibility for the one convention ratified by Ukraine to prevent the fight against slavery, nor for the ratified protocol on the prevention and cessation of trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, for punishing it, which complements the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime of 15 November 2000. And this project does not yet foresee, unfortunately, the responsibility for certain activities in these conventions, such as buying people, some other types of human purchases, not related to their purchases, the person’s retreat through sales, exchange, or other pay transfers, the tendency to enslave himself, and so forth. The bill proposes to abolish criminal responsibility in general for systematic prostitution. I cannot agree with this especially because AIDS is now growing enormously, and the state is not fighting it and cannot adequately fight it. We're the first in Europe at the rate of development of AIDS, and we're just talking about abolishing criminal responsibility for prostitution. Surprisingly, the good people, they can't do this right now, they haven't met the conditions in Ukraine yet. So, speaking in general and understanding the positive, some positive in this law, I'd like to say that the first reading can be accepted, but it can be thoroughly reworked, including by using the work that the Scientific and Experimental Authority is also offering. And I am grateful to Mikola Havronyuk, who made suggestions for the completion of the Ukrainian Criminal Code by article 149 pr. The content of "Deviation of man to put himself into service." These actions are, in fact, neither predictable nor criminalized. In general, I think that if this bill is redrafted in principle, i.e. leave only the essence and cancel the removal of prostitution, the responsibility for prostitution, it will bear.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u181	Please stand by to get Salamatin ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u182	National Deputy Šibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovska District. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to today, that we are considering a very important issue at all. This question concerns both the problems worldwide and the Ukrainian community in particular. Why Ukrainian society, because today there is a widespread practice of involving Ukrainian women in brothels that exist today either legally or illegally throughout the world. This is what you get with when you cross the border, when it's really Ukrainian women today and they're the people they're giving priority to today, that's the first. And I think that if this problem was raised in that sense, it needs to be discussed. But somehow today, the dignitaries, both from the Ministry and the Committee, never said anything about the comments that are in our science department, but they're right today, and I want my colleagues to listen to them and read them. I'd like to make the same point that it's not really about increasing responsibility, it's about removing some kind of responsibility at all. Where are things coming from? The point is that criminal responsibility can only be borne after a kidnapped person has been kidnapped. And if she's tempted to do that, if she's recruited, forced, and so on, it's already off-limits. This is, in general, today, taking into account what has been said above, and with regard to Ukrainian society and the state of things in our country, it is unacceptable. In general, there are sins that need to be taken into account. Well, for example, there's a term like recruitment. Tell me, how can we prove that we are recruiting or not recruiting her to engage in prostitution or other things in this regard? It's very difficult. I fully agree with the fact that this is declarative, and we need to think carefully about whether to support it or not, because declarations seem to do something about it, that we're doing something, we're passing some laws, and unfortunately that doesn't even work for the sake of strengthening it. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, Solomatin, prepare the Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! Let's think about how back in the days of the Soviet and Socialist Ukraine, in the days of the Soviet Union, our far-reaching democracy was abused by a woman when she was asked on television whether there was sex in the Soviet Union? And she said no. We've already entered this civilization by the ears, we've got sex. Along with him came prostitution, drug addiction, HIV-AIDS, and other achievements of capitalist civilization. Now you and I have started a desperate fight with these achievements. I want to say that I am joining those who have spoken to me from this rostrum and have pointed out that the bill of MP 4179 should be fundamental. And you can use it if there's something useful and a government bill, some positions. And on the basis of these bills, we're going to work on the first reading and we're going to adopt these bills. I want to say something else in this regard. A fundamental solution to this issue is the sale of people, drugs and prostitution on only one condition -- when on a global scale a socialist issue prevails. Even our fierce enemies, they're beginning to understand that. The time for this is near. It's going to happen. I truly believe that. And I want to tell our fellow citizens, our fellow countrymen, the women who are forced to sell their bodies -- there will be times when socialism, when feelings between a man and a woman will be based only on feelings, not on money and sales. I believe this is going to happen. And the step towards this is the victory of the Communist candidate, the candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, Peter Simonek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u185	Yes, please, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u186	Basil Onopenko, Head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I think you'll agree that we have two national riches in Ukraine: this is our land and our beautiful, beautiful women. Regrettably, both these and the other are today’s unceremonious trades. I thought I'd hear some statistics in the report, some figures to convince us, we need to change our current legislation or we don't need to. Unfortunately, neither I nor you have heard it. And statistics and published in the media tell us this, that only in 2003 did the export of people from Ukraine increase by 71 percent. 289 crimes involving the removal of people from Ukraine were reported. But only 53 people were convicted under article 149 of the Criminal Code. There is a problem with why so many crimes have been reported, and so few have been convicted of these crimes. Next. As of November 1, 2003, 98.65 percent of the people exported from Ukraine are women. At the same time, between the ages of 18 and 28. It is clear that these are the women who should bear children for Ukraine and that they should do so here in Ukraine. But as you can see, the situation is one of the sad ones. And about 50 percent of the women in that figure didn't work at all, and others have earnings that can't be fed, about 200 or 300 dollars. So it seems to me that before making appropriate changes to the Criminal Code, there is a need to examine why such a situation occurred in Ukraine. We need to take a deep look. For example, the issue of prostitution is as old as the world itself, not only related to the fact that our women are being exported outside Ukraine, but primarily to the social, economic, moral, spiritual issues. That is why we need to find reasons. So it seems to me that the committee, before bringing this matter to the attention of the Supreme Council, had to take a deep look at this complex problem. Moreover, it may even be possible to come out with a problem at parliamentary hearings. I don't have time to analyze the bills themselves, but tell me what this is: by recruiting, by kidnapping, by transporting by road. Abuse of Vulnerable Status? What is "invulnerable condition"? "Stolenage," "Stolen By Kidnapping" and so on. New terminology is being introduced. Let's say I'm our faction to accept changes to actual legislation, but we need to work perfectly to get our committee to.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u187	Vasil Vasilovich, when preparing for your second reading, you will be able to do so. Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. I repeat: Four are on, four are on, and you are five, unfortunately, on time to register. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code on the Responsibility for Trafficking in Persons and the Involvement of Prostitution. There are two bills. The first, as they stand, is the government's 4280 vote. [[13:36:17]] For-191 I'm voting on the bill number 4179, the authors are the national MPs. Please vote. [[13:36:44]] For 178. Dear colleagues! Those of you who have watched these bills carefully, apart from the authorship, are virtually no difference between these bills. So I'm asking, let's not fall for some ambitions that are mine, and that's not mine, so I don't vote, because each of you understands and realizes that this law is necessary for our society. To protect those who are involved. And we're in the middle of that. So, what's the committee's proposal? Ivanov. Ivanov, please. Ivanov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u188	Offer. In the first reading, accept. And then work it out. Accept in the first reading!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u189	We voted that way in the first reading. Then the suggestion is to send them back to rereading the two bills. Please vote. [[13:38:15]] For 346 Both bills are sent for re-reading. He's listening. Please, Onopenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u190	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I ask you to give a protocol order so that the Committee on Legal Policy will join this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u191	I think if the committee asks, he'll join in without protocol. You ask for it. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 77-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Self - Incineration of Dry Planthood or its Residues is pending. Bill number 3538. Reported by National Deputy Shirko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u192	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian People’s Party, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Our bill, which we are submitting to your consideration with my colleague, Nicholas Sherschun, directly refers to the problem with which the Head of the Supreme Council began today. This is about the natural disasters that are affecting Ukraine, namely, this bill provides for the punishment of self-inflicted burns on the back, the damage of which is enormous. Because air emissions cause climate change and cause such adverse weather conditions to affect Ukraine. Firewood also reduces soil’s organic remains, reduces resilience, kills the biota, destroys the nesting of birds, and the environment, and finds all kinds of animal and plant life and other negative effects. I don’t think I’m sorry for this kind of burning except for the babies. This question is not raised for the first time in the Supreme Council, since on February 20, last year, changes were made to article 77 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning responsibility for the arbitrary burning of dry vegetation or its remains, which increased responsibility for the actions and increased fines. But the point is, in the final drafting of this law, a flawed and overly narrowed formulation was used. And now, in article 77, here we are. 1 Admincodex is responsible only for burning dry natural vegetation and its residues, and the rudder and other vegetation have somehow fallen out. So today we can't bring ourselves to be responsible for self-inflicted burns on the back and other cultural plants. Our bill changes this problem and enables us to take responsibility not only for the spontaneous burning of the dry natural vegetation but also for the burning of the rubble and other vegetation with specific objects, that is, where it is forbidden to burn without the permission of the organs of the Ukraine’s Nature. The implementation of the law does not require additional costs from the state budget. The bill is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Committee on Budget Affairs. I also ask you and the Committee on Environmental Policy to support and adopt the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, it's all clear. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Who among those who have signed up insists on the discussion? One, two, yes. Yes, please, Puzakov, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u194	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine One of the most acute environmental problems in recent years has been the burning of rubella and dry leaves. In recent years this phenomenon has become widespread due to the desire of owners and land users to avoid additional economic costs. These owners may have forgotten or may not want to know what harm they are doing by burning the stove. First of all, the destruction of organic and mineral substances on the surface of the soil, the reduction of soil resistance, and air pollution. You have to think about what is around people who have cardiovascular diseases, who have bronchial asthma, and how to be these people? Our soils are exhausted, because in the last 10 years, no mineral fertilizer has been introduced, and we are also burning the remains of vegetation -- an important source of organic matter in the soil. In the process of burning the stoves, rusts of straw burned in a number of areas, causing extensive material damage to the farms, even taking human life. Sadly, though, nothing stops the owner of the land today, and everything remains unpunished. Let's think about how much of the damage was caused by the fires that occurred in the forests and other plants. There were 120 fires in our area alone that destroyed the plantations in the large area. No trees were planted in their place. This is our clean air and, as a result, good health. Therefore, the adoption of the law is necessary. This will increase administrative responsibility for self-inflicted combustion of any vegetation or surplus and help prevent the negative impact of economic activity on the environment. This will also help to improve the environment. In particular, increasing the presence of organic matter in the soil, halting land degradation, and preventing fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u195	Thank you, Volodymyr Tikhovich. Please, Karmazin. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u196	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies, nature suits us adequately, and we see these examples now in the United States, which are the world's largest environmental polluter and now has huge environmental problems. You and I have huge environmental problems. So I would like to thank the people's deputies who introduced this bill: both the national deputy Shirko, and the national deputy Shershun, because he is timely. And I would like to say that today, practically, even existing responsibility, the 77 Code on Administrative Offences does not apply. They are not used and continue to be destroyed today, not only by means of incineration. Today, the whole forest is being cut down under Kiev, and no one controls it. The D.A. is silent, the Department of Environmental Protection is silent. I don't know what we're funding for, and why is there appropriate ministries in the government? So by speaking out for the adoption of this draft law, which proposes to make changes to article 77 prime. And to set the responsibility for burning rudders, pastures, meadows, wetlands and other vegetation in lanes, highways and railways, burnt leaves in parks, other green plants, lawns in populated areas, other vegetation or their remains, I would propose to increase the size of fines. There is no proposal to change the size of fines, but they are set from five to ten untaxed minimums. We need to change that. As you'll decide, but I think it should be at least ten, up to twenty non-taxable minimums. So that no one would even think it would be cheaper to burn down and destroy the plant world. You know, me, I was in Odessa County, in the zone of the Danube floods, it's all burning up, it's an environmental disaster. It's 200 to 300 meters of smoke. And nobody cares, there's no police there, because yesterday the police were chased away, 450 people to Ovidiopol, half fifth to go there by Yanukovich. Why take everyone out of their seats? Why? I'm talking to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What are you doing? To the Department of Nature Protection, I'm going to Hennady Vasiliev, where are your environmental prosecutors? What do they do? I am responsible for Odessa, in the Kyiv region, saying that they are not doing anything. Activate their activities or develop them as no one needs. This should be accepted, but the responsibility should be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u197	Please, Solomon. He'll be followed by Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u198	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am a member of the committee that will report this bill today, and I agree with the decision that has matured on our committee, and this is where my colleague, Yuri Volodymyrovich Shirko, put it. That's understandable. And our faction supports this bill. But I'd like to make a few of these socio-political accents about this. I want you and I to answer that question. Take off your head or cry on your hair? I don't think so. That's what happened here, we took our heads off when we introduced the Earth Code of Private Property Relations on Earth and relatively, and also in agriculture, and the agricultural complex as a whole. At present, 20 percent of our oreland has grown in weeds. What's going on? How many pests are there? And how does this affect soil fertility, soil quality? We're not talking to you today. And to that, maybe a constant sentence. This is all due to the capitalist restoration that took place in Ukraine after 1991 and especially after the adoption in June 1996 of the bourgeois-democratic Constitution of Ukraine and the adoption of the private-owned Earth Code. All these questions can be solved, but only on one condition. The conditions for the return of land to property of the entire Ukrainian people, as well as the restoration of Soviet power and socialist relations in the agro-industrial complex. This is what our candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, Peter Simonenko, provides. I urge the Ukrainian people to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u199	The word is given by the national deputy of Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u200	Respectable members of the people, distinguished listeners, if we are heard, unrespected Adam Ivanovich! I want to say this. First of all, it's on its own. Not respectable because my bills, including your fault, are not put in the hall. I'll tell you what kind of bills this is about. In fact, the plant burning law is very important, isn't it? Well, I want to go back, first of all, to the projects that I've submitted to the Supreme Council and that block the communists is the deprivation of benefits and privileges of all the branches of power. This is your Mercedes, where your daughter and everyone else rides, and they kill the only Olympic champion who exists in Ukraine. And less solomatina needs to be plowed. And you're talking about laws, about prostitution! Oh, my God. First of all, you vote with the flock. Well, what are you telling me about. That's the first one, isn't it? And second of all, you're discussing criminal charges against prostitutes! Jesus, I'm sorry, Solomatina! Maybe you don't have a trick to prostitutes anymore, but I'll tell you what you'll do in the world! The world is being held accountable for those who use prostitutes, not for the prostitutes we will soon have the whole country, because bills that have an important impact on the development of society are not put forward at the initiative of Adam Ivanovich, including the Supreme Council. I say, 20 billion dollars today in benefits and privileges, Mercedes, in cottages, in specialty rooms, in specialty cars, in everything in the world. Hand them over to those who have them today. My bill is not put on the committee by your Communist Party member and former head of the CD. [[I filed with him in court.]] And listen: don't touch prostitutes! You have caused them to divorce themselves, and there is nothing to touch them. You'd better attract yourself, if you have an impotence problem, yeah, then you have to go and do something else. Because it's not really about those who sell their bodies, it's about those who lead the country to that state. I'm talking about eliminating the value added tax. Adam Ivanovich, why don't you put my bill on. Explain to the voters how the Communists take care of them. Every grandmother goes and buys bread or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u201	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. I'll explain. Leonid Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. Leonid Mikhailovich, don't argue! Leonid Mikhailovich, you asked questions. It's too bad the fourth time in Parliament, and you don't know how the agenda is formed. The only advice is that you share your cars because you drive a new car to the walls of the Supreme Council every day. Give the Maibahi to the people -- this will be an example of a candidate for the presidency. Please, Nigger, get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, this is such a big situation right now, but I'm still going to say what I'm going to say about the bill that we're looking at right now. In my opinion, the bill is necessary. Dear National Deputies! The bill should be adopted in the first reading. In my opinion, even in general. He's on time, he's very good, he's very busy. I'm drawing your attention to three moments. First. We're acting consistently because we've ratified the Kyoto Protocol and we're now adopting a law that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. It's different. This problem arose because some farmers would save a penny. Instead of staring at the field, they burn. And by doing so, they destroy microflora, flora, and cause significant damage, first of all, to themselves and to those who live there. And the third moment. This establishes administrative responsibility for these crimes. This will activate the activities of law enforcement agencies and strike those who are doing the damage now. That is why there are reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 77. Ukraine’s Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Self - Incineration of Dry Planthood or its Residues. Bill number 3538. Please vote. [[13:57:20]] For 340. The Law was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, we continue to work for 15 minutes in order to. The morning session continues for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on the change in the processing regime in Ukraine and the import regime is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number, I repeat, 5545]] Rapporteurs Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, National MP. Prepare Skomarowski from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u205	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich! Dear colleagues! The practice of carrying out external economic activities shows that when the terms of the tax processing contract change to the conditions when the raw materials are processed, the products obtained and the products sold are sold in Ukraine, this situation is difficult today in customs authorities and is not sufficiently clearly regulated in the Customs Code. It is known that the processing time of the Danish raw materials may be large enough and the dynamics of the internal and external market are strong enough. And these processes make little adjustments between them. The aim of the law is to resolve the process of changing the modalities for the implementation of the external economic contract. Article 186 of the current Customs Code, which regulates the procedure for choosing and modifying the customs regime, and article 231, add paragraphs 6 and 7, which would regulate the change in the processing regime. That is, the project aims to better regulate the change in the modality of tax-based transactions. We have a comment from the Scientific and Expert Office that we agree with and believe that these comments can be addressed in the preparation of the second reading law. They relate mainly to issues of non-compliance with the requirements of tariff, tariff and non-tariff legislation, and I think they can be addressed in the preparation of the law for second reading. Please accept that law as a basis for the authors to believe that this law will help facilitate the conditions of external economic activity, i.e. to intensify all external economic activities in general for our country and for entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u206	Yes. Thank you, too. Volodymyr Skomarowski, please. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered the bill, supported it, and believes it should have been accepted as a basis in the first reading. Those remarks that have expert management in the second reading can be corrected and the bill deserves attention and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u208	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? National deputies: Karmazin, Yavorowski, Černovetsk, Cherniak. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u209	Yury Karmazin, Party Protectors of Motherland, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill envisages changes to the Ukrainian Customs Code in order to determine the procedure for changing the customs treatment regime in the customs territory of Ukraine. In my opinion, the bill is very serious and can affect serious matters. These bills, in particular, are about coming to the budget. There is no customs-tariff board in the government of Ukraine in our documents, which, in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff, is subject to consideration of draft legislation on customs-tariff regulations. And that's why the profile committee was supposed to shut down this project until they told us. I don't know if the government can tell us what the impact is right now. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can't make bills that affect the budget. We need to know and make informed decisions. I see that the orientation in the bill is good, but I can't fully appreciate it. This means that I will not be able to properly vote on whether my colleagues are properly informed. This bill does not provide for effective controls on the implementation of the said procedures of the regime, compliance with the requirements of legislation on tariff and non-tariff regulations and the submission of customs documents to the customs authority confirming the declaration of the regime. Given that smuggling is still under way in the country today, this smuggling is being fed and this is a shadow base for the President's election, I'd like to know the answers to these questions. These answers are clearly based on the requirements of the laws, and we need to give them a clear answer. I'd like to ask before the vote for a government representative to speak and say I refer to the Customs Council's decision, and when it will be given to us. Until then, I believe it is premature to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u210	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. None. Leonid Chernewsky. None. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, the bill is small in size, but it's relevant, and it's on time. Because this problem is knocking at the door of economic policy. I tend to support him. Why? What mode is now in effect? We don't lose anything when we take it for processing, we give it a bill, it's wrapped in a bank. This is today's mode. The bill proposes to change the regime. So the raw material needs to be processed, and it can be sold in Ukraine. If a foreign partner refuses to produce later, the product can be sold in Ukraine. So it's going into import mode. That's the whole point of change. But at the same time, the manufacturer pays all the revenue to the budget, pays all the taxes, taxes, and at the same time, the budget doesn't lose anything. Why should we do so? Because conditions often change. And the legislator has to respond adequately to changing conditions. Of course, the question arises: Is it possible to abuse? Where officials are, abuse is always possible. But in my opinion, they're minimized here because there's a payment of all contributions to the State Budget. And it's creating the ability to implement production in Ukraine. Given all these circumstances, complex and confusing, I think the bill can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine. [[on change of processing mode in Ukraine and import mode]] I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code, registration number 5545. [[on change of processing mode in Ukraine and import mode]] Please vote. [[14:07:39]] For 122 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal. What's the committee's offer? I guess so. Demyokin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u213	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We ask that the first reading be re-readed, and we propose that the law be further elaborated, taking into account all the comments made by respected colleagues, which are determined by the Scientific and Expert Office. Thank you for your attention. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-09-09-m0.u214	The proposal for a committee to re-read the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code is put to the vote. I'm proposing to a committee to re-read the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine, registration number 5545. [[on change of processing mode in Ukraine and import mode]] Appoint a vote so that there is no talk. [[14:08:58]] For-174 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 39, "Ukraine" - 0, "Communist faction" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 28, "The People's Government" - 15, "Trudova Ukraine" - 29, "The People's Agrarian Party - 7, "SPU - 17, "Timoshenko" - 0, "The Union - 15, "The People's Democratic Party - 8, "Centre" - 15, "The Postfraction" - 1. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. After the break, the draft Law on the Specialities of Deprivation of Shares of State-owned Enterprises will be first reviewed.
