ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:06]] Registered -415 The 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, you have a list of issues to consider today. Let us turn to these questions. A draft decree on Government Day in September 2004 on the reform of the law enforcement authorities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, head of the committee, has the floor for the report. Please give a brief argument to the draft ruling, Volodymyr Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Why it was necessary to hold a Day of Government of Ukraine on the status of law enforcement reform in Ukraine. The question is to find out what the state of affairs is today and how it is planned to improve the state’s law enforcement system and, in particular, its internal affairs components, the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the criminal executive system, and the tax police. Without seeing the way the system of law enforcement is developed, it is not possible to speak about the legislative provision of this activity. So first of all, you need ideology, you need the concept of this development, and then you can talk about making specific laws that would allow this concept to be implemented. What do we have today? Lack of concept, lack of ideology, and, as a result, chaoticity in the development of a legislative framework, which in turn leads to the unsuspecting development of the organizational structures of this system. For example, the government has created a self-sustaining criminal enforcement service as an organ of central executive power. You and I have adopted the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, which has become effective since January 1st of this year. There's a draft law on criminal enforcement that would complete the creation of a legislative framework for the state's penitentiary system. At the same time, however, draft laws are being introduced proposing that the system be regulated by the Ministry of Power. During the fifth session, the committee twice considered six bills proposing the abolition of the tax police in the State Tax Administration system, transmitting it to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Instead, the government has introduced three bills proposing the creation of a customs force, namely the right to conduct a search and search operation, the creation of pretrial investigation bodies in this system, and so on. And this is another strong structure in the state. At the same time, the committee reviewed and sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine more than 70 bills relating to the activities of law enforcement agencies. The vast majority of them are chaotic because they are not, as I said, the ideology and concept of the development of the state's law enforcement system. Therefore, I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support the draft Government Day Decision in order to find out the real state of affairs on this issue, which will allow us to identify with you the most promising ways of ensuring law enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 5667 on the Government Day of Ukraine in September 2004 with a day-to-day status of law enforcement reform in Ukraine. Change the vote. Bandoon, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u4	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! There is a proposal to address this issue of reform and legislative enforcement of Ukrainian law enforcement. The law also needs to be passed on the prosecution, the law on internal affairs, the State Enforcement Service, the Criminal Procedure Code, and a whole series, a total of one and a half dozen laws. You can listen to endlessly different questions, if we do not do our part, the Supreme Council will not adopt appropriate laws, and a legal field suitable for law enforcement authorities will not be created. I propose that the issue be considered in terms of reform and the legislative provision of Ukrainian law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is no objection to such formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll put it to a vote with appropriate precision: on the state of reform and the legislative provision of law enforcement in Ukraine. I am voting on draft Decree No. 5667 on Government Day in September 2004 with a detailed agenda: on the state of reform and legislative enforcement of the law enforcement agencies in Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:09:01]] For 264 It's been decided. The draft Government Day Decision of September 2004 on Ukraine’s new directions for cooperation with the European Union in connection with the enlargement of the EU is being announced. Mr. Taraszuk Boris Ivanovich, please have the floor to justify the draft decision, the head of the Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Since the parliamentary hearings between Ukraine and the European Union in October 2002, many events have taken place. These events require consideration by the Supreme Council. In particular, there has been an expansion of the European Union. Today, the European Union is bordering Ukraine. As a result of the enlargement of the European Union, there has been a change in the EU's power ratio in favour of Ukraine, a new composition of the European Parliament. The European Union has approved a new concept, though contradictory to Ukraine, which is called "the wider Europe. New neighbors." There have also been new developments in the relationship between Ukraine and the European Union that require consideration by the Supreme Council. In particular, today we are working on the implementation of the Supreme Council-approved Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union. It is now being worked out between the Government of Ukraine and the European Commission, a plan of action that will determine the future of the relationship between Ukraine and the European Union for the coming years. At the same time, there is a conceptual stalemate, and there is a stalemate between Ukraine and the European Union. All of this calls for reflection on the part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The European Integration Committee considered a bill prepared and introduced by me and the Zarubinsky People's Chamber and supported the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The proposal by the Committee on European Integration to hold Government Day in September 2004 is put to the vote with the agenda: "On new directions for Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union in relation to enlargement of the EU". Draft Order 5672. Vote as a whole. [[10:11:59]] For 232 It's been decided. Announcing a draft regulation on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the election of M. Çechel as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Valentin Grigorovich Matviev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, yesterday the committee discussed the draft decision made by the People’s Deputy Prashenko regarding the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nikola Josipovich, as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council, and his dismissal from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in matters of agrarian politics and land relations. Considering that the calculated quota for representation on the committee, i.e. the number of members of the Committee on the Rules of Deputies of Our Ukraine, has not been used, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposed draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Draft Order on Changes in the Composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the election of M. Çechel as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] Project Order number 5658. [[10:14:06]] For 243 I'll take the order. The factions, please. Now, one minute, respected colleagues, the computer has been corrupted and cannot be seen. I'll read from the board. "Our Ukraine" - 100, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 0, DDRU(o) - 0, Deminiciatives, People's Government - 9, Labour Ukraine - 29, National Agrarian - 17, SPI - 20, Block Timoshenko-19, Union - 12, NDP - 16, Center 14, Postfraction - 7. The draft Ordinance on the granting of approval by the President of the President and members of the State Commission for Securities and Stock Markets is announced for consideration, as well as the draft Ordinance on the granting of approval by the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the Head and members of the State Commission for Securities and Stock Markets. These are draft regulations 5634, 5635. The following rules are proposed: for information, for a report from the President of Ukraine to 3 minutes, from the Committee on Finance and Banking to 3 minutes, and then for applicants to answer questions, for 3 minutes. That is, according to practice, as we have already established in our consideration of appointments. There's no objection. Please, Alexander Viktorovich Zadrodzny, Permanent Representative of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u12	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market, the President of Ukraine made a proposal for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the discharge in connection with the completion of the terms of office of the Head and members of the State Commission from the securities and stock market of the Mozgow Oleg Mikolaiovich from the post of head of the commission, as well as from the seat of the member of the commission Volkow Mikoli Fedorovich and Ivchenk Viktor Anatoliyovich. The corresponding submission shall be given and considered at the committee meeting. Requesting to accept this motion by the President and to vote on the draft Decision on the release from office of Brainy Oleg Mikolaiovich, Volkova Mikoli Fedorovich and Yvchenka Viktor Anatoliyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u13	Questions. Please sign up for three minutes. On the board, please give us the names of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u14	Deputy Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u15	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u16	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine," please tell me if it would be more appropriate to make this release and appointment after the presidential election, because there is only a few months left before the election of the new President. What's the point now?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Igor Raphailovich, the President was guided in this case by the fact that the term of office had ended. Giving or not giving consent is the matter of the Supreme Council. The President is acting in accordance with the Law. Accordingly, he has no other way out except when the mandate is over -- to release. If the Supreme Council does not agree, the situation will be temporary, since the mandate has ended and the commission cannot work. In this regard, we should make the final decision by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u18	Basil Nadrag, Union MPs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u19	Alexander Victorovich, please tell me, this is the last moment of this order -- let's do this in a way that we don't understand why, in any case, for me. I have another question. If there is no appointment today, will this commission be able to perform its functions? Whether it succeeds today, for unclear reasons, we will not confirm, and therefore the entire public body responsible for such important things, not only the securities, but the stock market, as well as the same non-State pension funds, and all the rest, the State will lose its administration and control of that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Vassil Ivanovich, there's an old saying, it's run by all the judges: if you don't know how to solve a case, be guided by the law. In this case, we have nothing more than to be governed by law. The law provided for the completion of the term of office. The Law foretold in article 6 the need for an appropriate assignment. All the other proposals, whatever they are, they don't fit the law. Then, first, we need to change the law, tie these appointments to the presidential election, and then act. Therefore, we need to act according to the law, or we need to change the law. In this case, the President is acting in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u21	Basil Gavriluk, please, your question, the "Centre" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Alexander Viktorovich, would you please tell us how much better you think the work of this commission will be if the President's proposals are voted on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u23	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, if you please, this is a draft release order. It is difficult to say that the release of members and heads of this commission will improve the work. They were people who worked properly, there were no complaints, they received State rewards. And in any event, the Supreme Council, having heard the reports twice, confirmed the positive work. But the deadline is over, and there is no other appointment. If we talk about new appointments, this is already in the next decision, these are appropriately trained people. But I'll talk about it in the next decision if the Supreme Council votes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, time is up. So the proposal, I put it to a vote. The proposal by the President of Ukraine to release the head and members of the State Commission from securities and stock market is put to the vote. We'll vote on each candidate separately. The brain of Oleg Mikolaiovich, head of the commission. Please vote. [[10:21:08]] For 365 Decision taken. About the release of Volkov Mikoli Fedorovich as a member of this commission. Please vote. [[10:21:32]] For 368 Decision taken. Ivchenka Viktor Anatoliyovich, a member of the Securities and Stock Markets Commission Please vote. [[10:21:56]] For 359 Decision taken. Now, we're going to consider the draft Ordinance concerning the granting of approval to a member of the Commission for terms of office of heads and members of the State Commission from securities and stock markets. The roadside Alexander Viktorovich, the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has the floor. Prepare Victor Kaputin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Appropriately and logically, by releasing some members of the commission, to appoint others. The President of Ukraine, in accordance with article six of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market of Ukraine, proposes the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for appointment. Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market of Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich, members of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market: Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich, Kalensky Vladimir Viktorovich, Nesterenko Ivan Ivanovich and Portnova Andrija Volodymyrovich. Candidates are listed accordingly. All documents are given and distributed in addition to the draft regulations. The committee discussed and recommended at its meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u26	If you have any questions, please sign in. Three minutes, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u27	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I have this question: Please tell me, do you not see the contradictions between the applicable law and the Constitution? Does it not have the right to appoint the prime minister of these people who are members of the central executive authorities? I'd like your opinion on a lawyer. I don't want to talk about specific personnel yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u28	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. It would be strange if I answered that question differently. I don't see any contradiction there, even though I understand what you're asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u29	Baburin, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u30	Baburin, Zaporozhye, Communist faction. I'm here, Alexander Victorovich. Here, when faced with the work of the Securities Commission and its regional offices today, you are convinced that today this “government” is not in control of what it is placed to control. I mean, today you can calmly take stock registers, enter the secret behind the seven seals. And when you go to the commission here, up here, well, it's pure formalism. As was the case when a representative was sent for securities to the VAT “Ritm” and Zaporozhye Stock Meeting, where there was a mass of violations. A 20-year-old girl was sent away who couldn't handle it, didn't let the shareholders into the congregation, and the meeting went unharmed. So, what do you think we need to do with today's candidates so they can do everything in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor, Alexy Viktorovich. Well, the question is probably not what to do with these candidates today. The point is, we can be guided by their training accordingly. I am deeply convinced that they are prepared. And including the path of life, there's data here that they're ready to do these functions. I am deeply convinced that much depends on us. If we provide in the securities and stock market law for the commission and its regional representations, including banning shareholders from holding meetings in connection with violations and so forth, it will be a very serious extension of powers. But here we have to think whether we should do it or not. So I'm convinced that the way is going to change the law, not those candidates that are represented today. It seems to me that they are willing to work in the mandates that we have provided for by law. If we change the mandate, we'll keep thinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u32	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u33	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I understand some subtext in my question. But since you represent here the personnel composition of such an important body as the Securities Commission, I have a question like that for the President's representative. We haven't had this commission in over a year. Now there are new candidates. But does it bother you and the President that there is no stock market in Ukraine so far? In closed stock companies, and so on -- there are some oligarchs or structures, there is no transparency, there is no circulation, there is no internal investment. Please, when are we going to get along with these personnel changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u34	Thank you, Reverend Stanislav Mikolaiovich. By the way, I'm not Vladimirovich's father, I'm Viktorovich. But that's not the point. The question is that it is also up to us, and it is a matter of self - criticism. When you and I discussed the amendments to the Act on Shareholders, we refused to open the shutters. And so we haven't actually created a primary or secondary market of securities with you. Let me remind you that 80 percent of the shareholders in our country are private shareholders. If we make them public, if we make quotas and let these societies share in the market, it'll be a serious step. But it's up to us. We had this law voted three times, didn't get the right number of votes three times, and we couldn't do it three times. If we have political will, we will. And they control again only within what we give, and that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u35	Thank you, Alexander Victorovich. Have a seat, please. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Please, Victor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u36	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! First of all, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Banking, I would like to thank those who have served in these positions for many years, which we have today released in connection with the conclusion of their term of office. They worked in a difficult situation and did what they could. Secondly, in the context of decision 5634 that has just been considered, we have to give our consent to the appointment of the President of Ukraine, the heads and members of the State Securities Commission. On the Committee on Finance and Banking, we discussed this issue on each of the candidates, and we therefore propose the following nominations for appointment: Baluka Anatolia Ivanovich, Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market; members of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, Birjuk Sergio Alexiyovich, Kalenski Vladimir Viktorovich, Nesterenka Ivan Ivanovich, Port Andrija Volodymyrovich. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u37	The question is before. Eugene Kirilchuk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u38	Thank you. Yulia Timoshenko, Kirilchuk Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we are now assigned to the very important positions of the people. Even if we approve of the judges, we see each one of them getting up, and so on. We don't see these candidates today. Where are they?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, we agreed that right after the president's report, then from the committee, we would invite you to the rostrum and ask these people a question. I just might have said it very quickly and not been able to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u40	Dear friends, all the candidates are here in the hall of course. We'll vote for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u41	Have a seat, please. I invite you to the rostrum of Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich, the head of the State Commission for Securities and Stock Markets. Please sign up for the question. Three minutes, please. Names on board. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u42	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I know you and I will support your candidacy, but I wanted to ask you what you think you should do now that there is an increased sale of state property, including shares owned by the state. What will be the function of your Securities Commission now, or what are the acquisitions to protect the interests of the state? I emphasize, states, not individual clans in the East, or in this room, or in the Banking Authority. I would like to answer that question, because Ukraine remains, you know, and its interests remain. Thank you. I said I supported your candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u43	Thank you. I think that, first of all, we need to stick to existing legislation. With regard to the privatization of parts of government property, his decision is made either by the government or by Parliament. And the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets only performs the functions that are laid down in the current legislation. As to the essence of your question, I assure you that the commission will act in a transparent, open, protective state interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u44	Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Eshchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u46	Vladimir Yeshchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u47	Fucking Communist faction. I have another question for you. My colleague Baburin raised the question, asking the Roadside this question, how are you going to maintain relations with the regional divisions of the commission, first of all, the Cherka district, why? Because very many remarks we had as deputies to the work of this regional department, and personally Rubchenko, on matters of privatization." Ukraine," "Slavutic" and some other businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u48	Thank you. In many ways, the work of the commission depends on the existing legislation. And I hope that our composition will be able to establish a normal relationship with Parliament, which will allow us to make more effective use of the scales that are on the committee. It's about regional offices. I'm not ready to talk about Cherkas right now, I promise I'll deal with these facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u49	Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u50	I'd like to give Valentina Semenyuk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u51	Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u52	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I have a question for you. Today, in fact, the legislative base that we have, adopted under the leadership of Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, gives us every reason to have a stock market. As you think, as a candidate for such a large position in the Securities Commission, what we need to do in order to have a stock market in Ukraine, and it was transparent, as around the world, turned on the TV, and people see where the action is going, where the trade is going, and not how we have it today, Pinchuk bought it for budget money and is silent, and no one knows why the action is appropriate. And then we're looking for why the oligarchs have so much money and they're hiding abroad in the appropriate offshore areas. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u53	I think that if the stock market is to work, it is necessary to carry out a wide range of measures as legislation, tax legislation, economic regulation, economic relations, criminal relations. And while there's our market, there's a large share of the market in the shadow until all the capital is legalized by some kind of action, whether it's a reduction in tax pressure, liberalisation in the economy, or some other action, only then will there be a stock market, because it can't rotate in the market what there's no that's hidden from someone. In short, it must be the joint work of all branches of power and should, as the representative of the President has said to me, be the political will of all, and the branches of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u54	Thank you. I think we're going to have a job together anyway. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. You see a candidate in front of you as head of the commission. May I have your attention, please? I put to the vote a draft decree authorising the President of Ukraine to chair the Commission of the State from the securities and stock market of Baluk Anatolia Ivanovich. Please vote. [[10:36:35]] For 398 Decision taken. Let us welcome the Head of the State Commission, and wish him fruitful work with Parliament. Don't let him forget about Parliament after he gets off this rostrum. He is invited to the rostrum by Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich, a candidate for the commission. Please. Please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues. On the board, please give us the names of the national deputies who are registered. Silent Paul Mikhailovich, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Aloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u56	Aloshin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u57	Dear Sergey Alexiyovich, I would like to ask you perhaps an entirely conceptual question. You have a lot of experience, you're one of the most experienced experts in the stock market. And how you see the work of the commission in the new warehouse and what priorities you would set. Perhaps this depends more on the position of the newly elected Head of the Commission, but nevertheless, you too have questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! I think the main priorities of the Commission's work are the development, the conduct of legislative acts now in Parliament are 18 laws relating to stock companies, securities and the Stock Market, mortgage securities. Let’s say issues related to the protection of property rights. Yesterday Parliament voted on the law that registrants should either give an answer motivated or refuse registration in order not to delay the process of transfer of ownership rights, and investors and shareholders were not deceived. And that's why I think the most important thing right now is to keep changes to legislation. And then based on this improvement in the regulatory base, on one side. On the other hand, it is an improvement in executive discipline and the commission’s legislative tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u59	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u60	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Sergey Aleksevich, I know you not the first day, and you are a professional indeed in this industry, and I call upon all deputies to support your candidacy indeed as a specialist in this regard. But I would like to say that I wish you as a specialist, I think you also understand that the Funding Market is not a market for carrots today, and with good intentions, you know, as the exiled road to hell says, so that we do not create today's small shareholders with large monopolies who, with a transcontinental company, would concentrate entirely on Ukraine's property, that these steps, which are acting or taking place in this direction, must be considered clear and forward-looking. On the one hand and on the other. And the experience, let's put it this way, that what works in the West today is not always acceptable to us. So you can understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u61	Thank you. We understand that. As you know, legislation has already been introduced, it meets the requirements of more Ukraine. As for the laws, I personally believe that in general, by working out legislation, we did not take into account one thing at a time — the work of normal businesses and their experience. And now we're working with the CEOs of the firm and the Nord Landika, and the Shells, and with you, so that our legislative acts don't adversely affect those market entities that work normally and don't have any problems that don't have any further issues after the amendments to the commission's legislation and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u62	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, registration number 5635, on the part of granting consent to appoint a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich. Please vote. [[10:41:44]] For 396 Decision taken. Let's welcome our election as a member of the Committee of Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich, and wish us fruitful work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u64	Kalenski Vladimir Viktorovich is invited to the rostrum. Please. Sign up for a question to Kalenski. Put on the sign the name of the national MPs who are registered. Peter Prashenko, "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u65	Dear reporter, you know how widespread the privatisation of the Crimsonstally was when the state budget lost four billion dollars. This would not be enough, for example, to cover a total of 57 articles or a hundred dollars from each Ukrainian’s pocket. As far as we know, you were a member of a commission that summed it up. Please tell me, what state interests did you have when the commission unanimously identified the winner of the competition and this decision lost four billion dollars to the State budget of Ukraine compared to the proposals of others you rejected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, he has to note that the commission was governed solely by Ukrainian legislation, according to which.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u67	Closer to the microphone, take the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u68	were governed solely by legislation, which requires the commission to open the packets and determine who gave the highest price. In fact, it's the contents of a closed auction. Therefore, personally, the final decision in the sense that you have asked the question does not depend on the members of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u69	Yes, Vladimir Yeshchenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u70	Fucking Communist faction. Please pass the word to Rodion Mikhail Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u71	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u72	Rodionov, the Communist faction. A distinguished candidate for a very high position. Your main task in the future is, it is said, to blaspheme the interests of the State. I have a question: all privatized enterprises so far, privatized without taking into account intellectual property, the value of intellectual property in these enterprises. What's more, we don't have a law that takes into account. Therefore, this is the same “Criminal”, you have sold it or privatized it by taking from all people the money that belongs to the State, including the people. How will you continue to do so if there is not even a law that takes State ownership into account in the intellectual aspects of this production?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. Well, as far as evaluation is concerned, there is legislation. There is a law on the valuation of property, property rights, and professional evaluation activities. Therefore, in future activities, of course, within the competence of the commission, we will keep an eye on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u74	Yes, instead of Boko Valentina Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u75	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Your Honor, please tell me, according to the work you were doing in privatizing the Creatures, I have come to understand that, for you, the decision of the Supreme Council, the decision of the Special Supervisory Commission is not the basis for fulfilling the responsibilities that you have performed before. Being in such a position, what will you be guided by — the Cabinet decrees or the laws of the Supreme Council? That's the first question. And the second. How do you see that today an additional edition of the Orant was conducted on the basis of the Cabinet of Ministers' orders? There are two decrees of the Supreme Council and two decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are not annulled. Why, then, did an additional issue and a corresponding discount take place? How did you manage the foundation then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u76	Well, thanks for asking. I worked at the State Property Fund seven years ago, so I don't have an attitude either to the Orant or to the Crevicestally directly as a trustee. As far as I'm concerned, what I'm going to be guided by in my activities is exclusively Ukrainian legislation. And the question of "Orant." The additional emissions were triggered by the urgent need for funding for the development of the Oranges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, consider the matter. questions are time-consuming for a candidate to serve as a member of the commission. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the part of granting consent to appoint a member of the commission, the State Commission of Securities and the Kalenski Vladimir Viktorovich Fund Market. Please vote. [[10:47:45.]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Nesterenko Ivan Ivanovich, a candidate for commission, is invited to the rostrum. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u78	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u79	Please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues. On the board, explain the names of the national deputies who have signed up for the questions. Sokirko. Mikola Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine, please. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Mr. Sokirko. I'll ask him a question. Dear John Ivanovich, I can hardly support your candidacy because it's written in your lens that you did an evaluation during the privatization of more than 1,500 companies, of which over 400 were large. Tenders and competitions were won for the right to conduct an audit of the privatization of such enterprises as VAT "Kurtelekom", VAT "Kievsky radio plant", Calinov plant, Azovstall, Kramatski metallurgical and so on. We know at what price it was all valued. Everyone has seen it, the people of Ukraine know how. But I have a question. Can you please tell me how you can be the head of the V.A.T. Auditor's office? Explain to me. I can't imagine how it could be headed by an audit committee this big.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u82	Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u83	Deputies! I, as a shareholder of VAT, had the right to be recruited as a member of the audit committee or as the head of the Audit Committee of Watt "The Shrimp," according to the statute adopted by VAT "The Shrimp."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u84	Yes, Yuri Solomatin, your question. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Rodion Mikhail Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u86	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u87	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I have a question. The previous mate didn't answer, I'm going to specify. It's just been privatized. That's my question. In the cost of privatization, what is the value of the intellectual property of Krivorostali? That's what it's worth. Because the intellectual property of the State is property created for budget money. Here is the value of the privatized value of intellectual property.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u88	In particular, the cost I can't say, because I'm just using the information that's in the media, that the assessment was made by the Crimsons in the sum of 3 billion 867 million bracelets. I think the experts they've evaluated have appreciated the methods that they have. The law is not yet in place, but there is an assessment method in place to assess intellectual property. The law will be adopted, the value of intellectual property in the assessment of enterprises will be determined more specifically and more reasonably.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u89	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the National Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u90	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dnipropetrovština, National Agrarian Party of Ukraine I have a question for you. During privatization, certificates were issued to our citizens, to individuals who, through funds and firms, were invested in certain privatization processes. Unfortunately, much of them have been lost untraceable. What you're planning to do to make this market transparent, because voters are turning now. I'll give you an example of the process of privatization at the Deepwater Sugar Plant in Dnipropetrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Deputies! I think if I'm chosen, so to speak, to this position, I'll try to figure it out and tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Question time is up, please. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the part of granting consent to appoint a member of the State Commission from the securities and stock market of Nestrenk Ivan Ivanovich. Please vote. [[10:52:49]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Have a seat, please. Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum, a candidate for the commission. Sign up for questions, dear colleagues. Put the name of the national MPs on the board. Sergei Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u93	Pass the word to Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u95	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". I'm going to ask you a question with Sergei Sobolev, and we have it in common. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I want to ask you what you need to do in this state office, where you're going to have about a thousand bracelets, at a time when the total total revenue you have is declared to be 287 thousand 428 bracelets, plus Mercedes 500 and so on? What is the point of taking such a position? What's more, you've been acting as Director of Ports and Partners Law School, who's been doing just the same. Will there not be a conflict between the interests of those enterprises in which you have already taken part and the position you are now running for office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u96	A.V. Thank you so much for asking. First. I was assigned to the public service a year ago, and at this point I got out of this law firm, so now I have nothing to do with it. That's the first one. The other one. As for my declaration. I paid my taxes from the money that was declared there, and it all went into the accounts. On my own initiative, I did not declare 280, where my family’s income was 700,000 bracelets. So I can afford to drive this car, which is registered in my name, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u97	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u98	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Andrija Volodymyrovich, two of your previous colleagues who were standing on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, received questions, answered those questions, did not get the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies, to take the proper office. Tell me, from your point of view, what happened, what they did not satisfy the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u99	Thank you so much for asking. Unfortunately, I cannot answer to others. If the Supreme Council did not trust them, they may not have been happy because they did not work enough with the members of the Supreme Council and the factions and committees. Sadly, though, they were unhappy today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u100	Alexander Shevchenko, please, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u101	Alexander Shevchenko, Dnipropetrovština, 39 constituency, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. I asked your predecessor about the privatization processes that have taken place, the shares that have been released and are not working. The market for money and the market for securities has always been very attractive to speculation, manipulation, and so forth. Tell us, please, our faction insists on the question that a number of privatization processes are needed here, and then missold shares have a negative impact on our economy. What will you do about it? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to point out that the problems that the National Securities Commission is dealing with today are also at the level of regulation of market infrastructure entities, that is, registerers, depositories, stock exchanges, out-of-the-way organized trading and information systems and admission to the market of securities for stock and bonds registrations, control of the circulation of securities, control of the lawfulness and regularity of the operations of infrastructure entities in the market for securities and corporate governance, which includes the issue you are talking about. First of all, we still need to introduce and work on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Act on Shareholder Society, the Act on Derivatives Securities and the Funding Market. And that's going to allow us to create some conditions to start solving those issues that you just said.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. May I have your attention, please? The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote as part of the approval of the President of Ukraine to serve as members of the State Commission of Securities and Markets of Portnova Andrija Volodymirovic. Please vote. [[10:58:32]] For 121 The decision is not taken. So, dear colleagues, today we have agreed to appoint President of Ukraine as Head of the State Commission of Securities and Markets of Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich and member of this commission Biruk Sergey Alexiovich. Let us welcome these people, wish them fruitful work and cooperation with Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a draft decree on the approval of the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2005. The committee requests that the matter be postponed for a somewhat later period of time, since it is now expected to reproduce, distribute, and distribute the document from the committee. Is there no objection? At 12:30 a.m., we'll be discussing the election of judges. Now let's move on to the section "Other Readings." The draft Law on Basic Principles of Civil Protection has been announced for consideration. Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich. Andresuk. Dear colleagues, the committee head will report directly. Request to postpone consideration of this draft law until it appears. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Reconstruction and Exploitation on the Pay Road of Kiev-Odes on the Area from Jaskov to Red Label is being announced for consideration. Valerius Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! To implement paragraph two of the Supreme Council's Orders of June 4, 2004, issue 1750-4 of the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, and in view of the comments and suggestions made by the people's deputies, a bill was prepared to amend the Ukrainian Law on Reconstruction and Exploitation on the Pay Road of Kiev-Odessa on the site from Jaskov to the Red Cross for a second reading and to present it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft bill takes into account virtually all the comments and suggestions made by the Ukrainian National Deputies and the scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which came to the committee, as well as those made during the consideration and discussion of the issue on 15 June 2004. All of this will allow for a substantial improvement in the bill, which will ultimately affect the fulfilment of the requirements of existing legislation and the timely completion of work on the reconstruction and operation of the entire Kiev-Odes road on a pay-per-view basis. The comments and proposals concerned, in particular, the issue of the granting of State guarantees by the government, the requirements for the approval of the cost of the project and the documentation, the creation of a supervisory board to monitor the implementation of the project. As a result of the above - mentioned committee, he decided to invite the Supreme Council to adopt the bill on second reading and in general. Please consider and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u105	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Yes, dear colleagues, all the suggestions, as the committee head reported. We have reason to vote on the adoption of the second reading and the whole law amending the Ukrainian Law on Reconstruction and Exploitation on the Pay Road of Kiev-Odes on the Area from Jaskov to Redstone. Please vote. [[11:02:49]] For 278 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u106	Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u107	There's a bill on cross-border cooperation, second reading, registration number 3472. A member of the European Integration Committee, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, reports. Who's from the committee? Is there a Tarasuk? Chevchuk? I'm calling. Yes, Boris Ivanovich. Well, I understand, but, dear committee leaders, I'm drawing your attention to discipline. It's going to be similar, next time we're going to take them out of consideration, because we have something to consider. On the Conciliation Council, you scream, include in the agenda, and then you are not ready for this consideration. Draft law on environmental audit, registration number 1092-1, second reading. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Hare Ivan Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u108	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! A second reading of the Ukrainian Supreme Council is the draft of the Environmental Audit Act, introduced by the President of Ukraine, registration number 1092-1 from 18.06. The year 2002 was one of The second reading of the bill took into account the provisions of the bill introduced by the Ukrainian national deputies Karpov, Tolstouchov, Shevchuk, as well as the comments and suggestions made by other subjects of the legislative initiative. A total of 123 proposals were made. Of these, 63 are included, 34 are included in part or in editorial changes, 29 are rejected. A number of meetings were held on rejected proposals, and representatives of Bill 1092, a deputy, agreed with the committee’s proposal. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act, registration number 1092-1 of 17.06. 2002 is to be accepted in second reading and generally as a law. Please also consider, along with this bill and the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatization process. Registration number 1224. This bill provides for introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u109	Ivan Alexandrovich, that's another question. Why do we need two laws, the more in the second reading, in one pile? Let's figure this out. Dear colleagues, who among those national MPs who have amended and not counted insists on their amendments to the Environmental Audit Bill? There aren't any? Do we have a chance to put it to a vote? Please, Matvienkov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u110	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, today we are considering three bills that in general do not give anything but the burden on the producer. The next bill, which was on the agenda, had disappeared for some reason, was an environmental fund that had to consolidate the matter and transfer it to Kiev so that the money that would be collected from the environmental polluter could be managed from the centre. For the duration of the year, there is our bill on the committee that proposes to change the methodology. And the money collected from the environmental polluter should be sent specifically to enterprises that pollute this environment by specific responsibility to a specific programme approved by the Ministry of Environment and the Committee of the Supreme Council. But why doesn't that work? We need to increase our burden today, raise our resources, and we don't know what to use them for. Therefore, such bills do not give the environment anything, they give the officials the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u111	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, I don't agree with you in principle, because that bill you're talking about has nothing to do with this bill that we're currently considering, and I know that you supported it, this bill. I understand you've taken advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to the adoption of that bill. I'm just as supportive of you in that part, but I don't support it in this part, so I don't want to see it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u112	Yes, is there an amendment? Yes, which of the national deputies has the amendments and they are not taken into account, and the MP insists? None. Then I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as the law of the Law on Environmental Audition. Bill registration number 1092-1. Vote. [[11:08:41]] For 307 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u113	Thank you, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u114	The Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts is under consideration to ensure that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatization process. [[second reading]] Bill number 1224. As reported by John Alexander the Rabbit. Yes, we've lost the paperwork for the report, so we're about to be, he's ready, John Alexanderovich to report the draft of the Ukrainian Environmental Network Act on second reading. Registration number 2543, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u115	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Today we are looking at a second reading of the draft law on Ukraine's environmental network. The bill was introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies John Zays, Shershun Mikola, Valérie Samofolski. The drafting and adoption of the bill was foreseen by the Ukrainian Law on the National Environmental Networking Programme for Ukraine 2000-2015, which was adopted in 2000. The bill's task is to regulate social relations in the area of the formation, conservation and rational use of the economy as one of the most important prerequisites for ensuring Ukraine's sustainable, environmentally balanced development, environmental protection, the satisfaction of modern and promising economic, socio-environmental and other interests of society. The economy is called upon to ensure or restore the continuity of nature, natural areas, forests, floods, pastures, forests, etc., so that we can create a single ecosystem — a complex that can provide us with water, food, climate-friendly, comfortable landscape, raw materials for a long time. The bill contains four chapters. We took into account the comments that contained the expert conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the comments and proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. New articles have been introduced: Article 3 - terms used in this law; Article 9 - authority of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime in the area of the formation of the conservation and functioning of the economy. Articles of the bill should be noted, which contain rules to ensure that the national economy is combined with the neighbouring countries. Eco-commerce. Funding for measures related to the formation, conservation and insurmountable use of the economy, including design, related scientific research, can be done at the expense of Ukraine’s State Budget, the Republic’s budget for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local budgets, enterprise funds, institutions and organizations of all forms of property and other sources not prohibited by law. The financing of the measures envisaged in the draft Environmental Network Act of Ukraine should also be ensured through expenditure on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the National Environmental Networking Programme 2000-2015, as well as the budget programmes of the State-owned countries, the State-owned Land, the State-owned Republic of Ukraine, and so on. To this end, changes and additions are needed. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for improving the technological, legal, financial and organisational mechanisms for environmental protection and environmental management. The Professional Committee recommends the adoption of a project on Ukraine’s environmental network in second reading and in general. Please support this decision. The text of the bill uses the term "economy" instead of "ecological network". The word.""the Greek origin means "science, knowledge." And the network is a material substance. So it's better to use the term "economy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u116	Fellow dignitaries, according to the First Deputy Head of the Professional Committee, are all comments made by national deputies, apart from the remarks made by the national deputy Gorbal, are taken into account. Does the coat of arms insist on its amendments? Don't insist. Then we have reason to vote on adoption in the second reading and in the entire Ukrainian Environmental Network Act, registration number 2543. Vote. [[11:13:33]] For 316 The law is passed. We had a coreporter. Draft law on cross-border cooperation, registration number 3472. Member of the Committee on European Integration, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich Second reading. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u117	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, adopted the draft Law on Cross - Border Cooperation on November 18, 2003. After that, the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration decided to address all district councils, state administrations with letters of proposals, and to create a working group from representatives of the Cabinet Secretariat, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics for European Integration, the Ministry of Justice for the processing of these proposals that we have made. A total of 76 proposals and more than 100 from the district councils of State administrations and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea came to the committee. In addition, the bill was examined by the Council of Europe, and a legal evaluation was made by experts at the University of Engineering, which was agreed upon by the secretariat of the Council of Europe. Both the natives and the foreign experts in their conclusions gave a positive assessment of the bill and recommended some changes and clarifications that had also been made. Perhaps you should not talk about the relevance of cross-border cooperation. All countries in the United Europe have made their own special contribution to cross - border cooperation, since in every country, including our country, there are situations where individual regions are depressed for objective and subjective reasons. And here, cross-border cooperation is kind of an extra chance for these regions or territories, a chance to level the socio-economic situation, compared to the neighbors, an opportunity to get extra reserves and make non-standard decisions. At the same time, there are obstacles to cross-border cooperation. And the European documents define four types of obstacles, administrative, legal, political and psychological. As we understand the task of the Supreme Council, the task of the Committee on European Integration in any case, the political obstacles to maximizing, removing our fellow MPs for different levels, the leaders of the regions have the opportunity to deal with these issues. At the same time, I would like to say that another bill has been passed today on the ratification of additional protocols to the European Convention on Cross-border Cooperation. And this bill, which I'm going to report on, is brought into line with these additional protocols. Hence, those remarks that were made by distinguished national MPs who were taken into account in part or rejected. This was done only to take into account existing international standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u118	Finish up, please. Go ahead, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u119	Our colleagues ’ comments are not significant. And so I would ask the people's deputies present to approach my proposals, which the working group did not take into account. In general, the Committee on European Integration, like the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Scientific and Expert Office, recommends the adoption of this important bill on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report is complete. The vast majority of the proposals made by the people's deputies in this bill are included. Indeed, the bill needs to be adopted. Recently, you know, we also held special sessions in Kharkiv on cross-border cooperation with the deputies of other states and stressed the fundamental need for the adoption of such a draft law. We talked about it there, by the way, because we already had the first option. Who among the national deputies whose proposals are not taken into account insists on their stand? None. Then we have reason to vote on adoption in the second reading and in the entire Transboundary Cooperation Act. Registration number 3472. Vote. [[11:19:06]] For 350. The law is passed. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. The draft Law on the Special Economic Zone "Interport Covell", registration number 0956, is under consideration. He's reporting from the Budzigan Pilip Pilipovich profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, before the draft Ukrainian Law on the Special Economic Zone, the draft Law on the Special Economic Zone of the Interport Covell. On the second reading, 26 suggestions from the National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, were made by the Chief Legal Authority. 16 offers are included. Eight suggestions rejected. An editorially listed one proposal, partly one proposal. So I propose, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, if there are any comments by the unaccounted-for amendments, to put them to the vote. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u122	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, who of the authors of the amendments insists on defending their amendments that are unaccounted for? There's no such thing. That's why we have the opportunity to put a second reading vote on the adoption of the Special Economic Zone Act "Interport Covell", registration number 0956. [[11:20:52]] For 176 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 50, "Regions of Ukraine", Communists are zero, Social Democrats are 30, Dem. Initiatives. The People's Government" - 24, Labour Ukraine - 28, National Agrarian Party and Socialists - Zero, Block Timoshenko - also zero, Union - 15, NDP, industrialists - 16, Center - 7, non-fractional - 6. So the project is rejected. There is a draft Act on Supplements to certain Ukrainian Tax Laws in connection with the creation of a special economic zone called Interport Covel, registration number 0956-1. [[second reading]] But there's no need. Yes, please. We didn't pass that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the bill is clear and clear - on the introduction of additions to some Ukrainian laws on taxation in connection with the creation of a special economic zone. Since we didn't vote in favour of the first bill, well, I just told you for the transcript that two proposals were made, two counted. And it is clear that this bill cannot be adopted. But for the sake of clarity, in order for the committee to have a clear and clear order, I would like to vote, in the same way that the matter would be removed from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we take this vote off, and without a vote, because these bills are bound. If the first is not accepted, the second cannot be adopted, for there is no law on the zone. It's going to be the zone law, and then we're going to look at it. No, it won't. You're filming. We take them off until the first law is passed. Please, Karmazin, what is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we always have this practice set in us: when we adopt or do not adopt the law, and it is already designed for second reading, the question of the chairman of the second reading is raised. At least it was about a special economic zone. I emphasize: a special economic zone, and it creates conditions for a certain investment and import of equipment. There is no exemption from anything else. And that's why I think it would be logical for you to re-read the experiment for purity, and maybe then it'll be looked at in a different way. Because one way or another, we have a different approach. That's what I'd ask you to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's listen to what the profile committee has to offer. If you were referring to a profile committee, I'd put your proposal to the vote. I didn't make that offer, I can't do it for them. And 176, Yuri Anatolyovich, this is 176. There is a draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, second reading, registration number 4375, reports to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Bulba Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! An extremely acute problem for military personnel is the problem of housing. In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of March 2, 2004, the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence considered and discussed the draft Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, registered number 4375 of November 17, 2003. The project is designed to improve the housing of military personnel and their families, as well as the legislative settlement of tasks and the resolution of these issues in software documents adopted by the Government of Ukraine. A second reading of the bill included 36 comments and proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, as well as mainly the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed comments and suggestions account for a total of 21, partially 11, four are rejected. According to a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the costs associated with the adoption of this bill will be incurred within the limits of the funds provided for the provision of housing for military personnel by valid government programs. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill may be adopted in a second reading, taking into account the comments of the administration. The National Security and Defence Committee considered this issue on May 13, this year, and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the aforementioned draft law in second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u128	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u129	So we can say for the transcript that the observations of the Legal Authority are taken into account by the committee, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u130	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u131	Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, not only are the proposals of the national deputy, Sharov. Does Igor Fedorovich insist? Don't insist. That's why we have reasons. Yes, please, Carmazine. What you're offering is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to listen to my suggestions for amendments 15, 31 and 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u133	Let's do it on the 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u134	I'll get to the 15th first. I suggest that part 3 of this article be made available. "Those released from military service and recognized invalids as a result of injury, injury, disability resulting from the fulfilment of military service duties or illness received during the course of the military service are given first priority by military formations or executive authorities in which they were in charge of housing improvements." I think that this is going to increase the ability to protect military personnel, so that's why I don't think it's good. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u135	Please, Stepanovich, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u136	The committee believes that this amendment by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is taken into account with the wording of the text, suggests that the article should be presented in the form it is in the comparative table, but if there is an insistence, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u137	It's the 15th amendment of the People's Chamber of Carmazin. [[11:29:23]] Z-87 Not accepted. Next amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u138	Amendment 31.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u139	31st, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u140	I would like to introduce a new part of the ninth part and present it in such an edition. Dear National Deputies! I want to improve people's laws and guarantees. "Militaries who are retired from military service for 20 years or more, if released from military service for health, age, in connection with the reduction of states, as well as persons who have become disabled from military service by the first or second group, members of families of military personnel who have died or died, or who have been missing without news during the course of military service, have the right to receive, free of charge, the private property of the residence they occupy in the houses of the state, municipal, housing fund in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Privatization of the State Housing Fund." [[And now 70,000 cancels out.]] Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u141	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u142	Committee position: This amendment is part of the proposed committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u143	Is Carmazin insisting on the vote? I'll bet on the vote on the 31st amendment of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:55]] For-99 Correction not accepted. Next amendment, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Amendment 36. I don't insist on other amendments, they're taken into account, the committee thanks for that. The language, however, comes when the law begins to work. And so I propose a part of the two Final Regulations to be drafted as follows: "In a month from the date of entry into force of this Act, the Supreme Council Committees on National Security and Defence, Budget, Finance and Banking, Construction and Transport, Housing and Communications, Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, State Building and Local Self-Government and the Cabinet of Ministers will submit proposals to the Supreme Council for bringing Ukraine's legislative acts into line with this law. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will bring their legal acts into line with this law. To ensure that the Ministry and other central executive authorities review and repeal their laws and regulations that conflict with this Act. I mean, I want adequate measures taken quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u145	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u146	The committee's position is rejected. Because the proposed monthly term is not in line with the technology used to prepare draft legislation. So you can vote it, but it can't really be done, it can't be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u147	I'm betting on the vote for amendment 36 of the Karmazin People's Deputies. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:56]] For 105 Correction not accepted. So we've taken all the amendments into account. I am voting on the adoption as a whole of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Social Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, registration number 4375. Please vote. [[11:33:36]] For 382 The law is passed. There is a question of the draft Law on the determination of the procedure for the calculation of the citations of representatives of local self-government, registration number 4188. [[second reading]] Reported the Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich. The head of the committee de Matvienko? There is a question of the draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in Ukraine, the registration number of Project 3120. [[on the security of the card market]] [[second reading]] Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, we passed this law on our first reading a year ago, now in our second reading. He considered many times both working groups and on the committee, and finally at the last meeting of the committee it was decided to recommend it to the second reading. Almost all the amendments made to this law are taken into account, and they are solved, except for two amendments on page 10, one amendment and one on page 11. These are the amendments, the two amendments that caused the discussion on the committee. The committee voted in favour of adopting these amendments as an editorial of the National Bank of Ukraine and we need to support the committee's position or not. Amendment 153 on page 10, the edition of the National Bank of Ukraine looks like this. The issue of payment cards within Ukraine is carried out exclusively by banks that have entered into a contract with the paying agency of the relevant payment system and have obtained its permission to carry out these operations, except for the one-in-house internal payment systems. This was supported by the committee. The edition of the Terjochina deputies looks like this: the issue of payment cards within Ukraine is carried out by banks that have a bank license of the NBA or non-bank financial institutions that have a license of the State Commission for the regulation of financial services markets of Ukraine for the issuance of payment cards, and have entered into an agreement with the payment organisation of the payment system, except for the one-digits within the banking payment systems. The difference is, if in fact, that the position of the committee is that only banking institutions, only banks have the right to issue credit cards. In our view, this is the right thing to do. Because otherwise the market for payment cards will be unregulated, difficult to regulate. He's also now, some banks, having a hard time giving them the card system they're releasing. The position of Deputy Teryochin, I think he'll teach it to himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u149	Report completed. Terhochina is an amendment. I know. Please, teryohina microphone, change number 20? Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, worldwide, payment cards are issued by banks and not by banking financial institutions. Let's suppose.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u151	The number of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u152	God’s Word, 4 / 15 God’s Word, 1 / 15
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u153	Paragraph 15.3, yes. They release pension funds, credit unions, and so on and so forth. We want to introduce a monopoly on admission to the payment systems that the National Bank is offering, just for banks. Why? If we do that, then internal payment systems, let's say that in some pension fund or in a credit union, they're just going to use cash, let's say, some kind of surrogate money. That is why, among other things, the 46th directive of the EU and the 12th directive of the EU on this issue is in conflict. So there is a request not to support the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u154	Please, Victor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u155	Clearly, there's a National Bank, an editor of the National Bank of Ukraine, there's an amendment to the People's Deputy of Teriochin, the essence of which he's just given us. The committee supported the amendment of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u156	Teryohin insists on voting. That's why the 20th amendment of the People's Deputy Teryochina is being voted on. [[11:38:58]] For-73 Edit rejected. National MP Terjohin insists that we confirm the committee's decision to take account of the National Bank's law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u157	Dear friends, the committee supports the amendment of the National Bank. I would like to support it if it is now put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u158	Yes, be careful. I'm putting to the vote the question of supporting the National Bank's amendment, which is included in the comparative table on the proposal of a profile committee. Please vote. [[11:39:50]] For 168 Dear colleagues, be careful! I'm drawing your attention to the question: 168 got one right and 73 got the other one, that is, this is actually going to happen. That's why you and I need to decide. All right, so let's say I'm re-voting the rating, because it's 168, and your 73.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u159	It is needed in this law. So let's be definitive. There is an amendment to the National Bank, edited by the National Bank of Ukraine, supported by the Committee on Finance and Banking. And there's an amendment of the people's deputy Teryochin. Let's vote in such a way that one of them gets more votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I'll explain the situation to you right now, and you're on your own. If we do not now define either one or the other amendment, this article disappears, and the law will be sent to us for a third reading. So once again, I'm putting it in order so there's no charge. First, I'm going to put Teryochin's amendment to the vote, and then I'm going to put to the vote the amendment of the National Bank, which is proposed by the profile committee. I'm voting on Amendment 20 of the People's Deputy Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u161	We don't vote. [[11:41:28]] For-136
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u162	For - 136. I'll bet on it. Not accepted. I'm betting on the vote on the amendment of the National Bank of Ukraine, which the National Committee proposes to take into account in this law. Please vote. [[11:41:56]] For 264 The amendment to the National Bank is accepted. What other amendments are out of the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u163	Next amendment on page 11, amendment 15.8.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u164	Victor Volodymyrovich. Who insists on repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u165	Oh, that's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u166	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u167	So that's the same conflict between the amendment of the National Bank of Ukraine and the amendment of the People's Deputy of Teryochin. The National Bank of Ukraine edits it this way: "The issuance of cash through cash machines within Ukraine is made in national currency and through bank slots the authorized issuer banks in the currency of the payment card." The amendment of the People's Deputy Teryochina looks like: "The issue of cash through cash machines within Ukraine is made in national currency or in currency of payment card." So the difference between these two changes looks like the National Bank of Ukraine. The point of this difference is that the National Bank of Ukraine is essentially proposing to issue a national currency through ATMs. The Committee on Finance and Banking supported such an edition of the National Bank of Ukraine and suggests that the Hall support it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u168	Victor Volodymyrovich. Please do not help the manager. There's no need to help. I ask, which of the authors of the amendments insists that the amendments that are not included be voted on? Please, Sobola microphone. Teriochina’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u169	Thank you. We're similar to Soboljev, but not enough to confuse. What are we talking about? The National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u170	Please tell me what your revision is. Number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u171	What was the sound of her coming out of the rostrum right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u172	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 4 / 15
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u173	Please turn off the microphone. I repeat, which of the right-wing authors. None. You call me the correcting number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u174	Adam Ivanovich, I have just said that this is the law of the national deputy Teryochina, page 15.8.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u175	God’s Word, 4 / 15 There's a number on the right. This article you call me. You call me an update.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u176	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 15
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u177	You can name the number of the amendment, not the articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u178	The number of the check is 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u179	Seventeen, please, Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, this is what we're talking about. You know very well that because of any ATM you can either start a single currency or you can start a polycrates. The National Bank says it's just a currency regime. So you can't take a foreign cash out of an ATM. What does that mean? It's just lobbying the interests of the shifts, the ones from the kiosks, you know? How simple, you know, our banks have already launched a polycash machine where you can remove without a commission the currency that's in this machine. There are no monetary laws violations. But you know, I want these guys to change a little bit to the National Bank to encourage people to go there instead of contacting the ATM. Thank you. So I would ask you to accept my bill and not accept the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u181	Dear friends, let us vote in the same order as the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I repeat both the report and those who insist: you call me an update. There's no Teryochin in the 17th. The Seventeenth Amendment refers to the National Bank. The National Bank does not insist that we vote or reject. You stand up for yourself, not what the National Bank says. I don't know what to put to the vote, Terjehochin!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u183	Adam Ivanovich, there are two amendments that the Committee on Finance and Banking considered: the law of the National Bank of Ukraine under article 15.8 and the law of the national deputy Teryochin. The committee supported the amendment of the National Bank of Ukraine, which I will report on on on behalf of the committee now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u184	And the Supreme Council supported this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u185	But since the author insists on voting, I think we should put this amendment to the vote. And that's going to be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u186	Edit whom: National Bank?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u187	We need to put it the way we put it: the National Bank's law, and the people's deputy Teryochin's law. I think it's going to be right and right for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u188	Call me Teryochin's number.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u189	These are the regulations that go under number 17. The National Bank of Ukraine is right there in the table, if you're reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u190	Once again, under number 17 is the National Bank's revision. Teryochina's not under number 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u191	Adam Ivanovich, read. Page 11 and page 12, last paragraph on page 11 and first paragraph on page 12. It says it clearly and clearly. Amendment of the National Bank and amendment of the People's Deputy Teryochin. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u192	Once again, on page 11 of my comparative table, it says, "the accounting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u193	I'm sure you and I have different tables because in my chart.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u194	Well, I don't know why we're different. Then I'll put it to a vote. Be careful, I'm putting the vote to the vote of the People's Deputies of Terhochina. [[11:47:26]] For 178. Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! There is a proposal to vote in favour of this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u196	Yes, the National Bank's vote is due, be careful. A vote shall be taken into account by the National Bank, which shall be taken into account by the Committee. Please vote. [[11:48:02]] For a hundred and Not accepted. So that's not acceptable. Then we send a bill. I mean, we're passing the law, and now I'm going to put to the vote the adoption of the law on second reading and what we've agreed to the third reading of article 17. Or an article?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u197	This is article 17. In law, this is article 15. 8 Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u198	Except for article 15-8. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading of the Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in Ukraine. [[on the security of the card market]] Registration number 3120 with the third reading of article 15-8. [[11:49:15.]] For 370. Decision taken. The draft Law on the Sorting of Nuclear Safety Issues, registration number 2142, is being followed. [[resecond reading]] Reports the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bronnik Vladimir Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! We are considering an extremely important law with regard to the safety of nuclear stations that have been removed from service. We thus oblige the active organizations to finance these activities rather than to fund them from the budget. In the process of preparing for re-second reading, as you know, on the first, second reading, all comments were taken into account, we took into account the amendments of the Legal Division strictly in the technical plan and, in order not to interfere with the 2004 financial system, the law on the disbursement of funds entered into force on 1 January 2005. This is article 6th. I would therefore ask everyone to uphold a very important law on second reading. There's no comment on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, which of the unaccounted authors insists? You don't? Then I put to the vote the second reading and, as a whole, the Law on the Ordering of Nuclear Safety Matters, registration number 2142. [[11:51:18]] For 290 The law is passed. It's under review. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u201	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I voted in favour of this Law, but I would like to draw your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u202	Turn off the microphone. The draft Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010, registration number 4235. [[second reading]] Report by the Head of the Desert Tenko Committee, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u203	Dear National Deputies! On May 12, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft Law on the Universal Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010. I want to remind you that this program was designed on the initiative of our committee. We have come out of the need for a fundamental reform of this area of housing and utilities, including the legislative base, the governance system, the order in which housing services are provided, their quality and appropriate standards. The programme envisages the implementation of state social standards in the area of housing and utility services and public control of the activities of all public authorities and local self-government, which operate in the area of housing and utility services and directly the activities of industry producers of these services, within the limits established by legislation. The Committee believes that the adoption of the reform programme will make it possible to significantly improve the housing and utility situation. It'll make the reform process run. It stabilizes the financial situation of businesses, housing and utilities, makes processes, tariffs in this field transparent, and services accessible. Ukraine's draft Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities 2004-2010 included 80 proposals. The working group, which was formed by representatives of all parliamentary groups and factions, from experts, both central and regional, carefully analysed all proposals, allowed them to substantially change the structure of the programme itself and bring it into line with the requirements of the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes. We need to pay attention to the following. The law itself consists of four points, the first paragraph is proposed to approve a state-wide program, the second part is the program itself, which was substantially reduced by structural reconstruction. At the suggestion of the National Deputies, members of our committee came up with part three, the main tasks of the central and local executive authorities and local authorities. Its inclusion allowed for a much clearer presentation of the main tasks of the program, the identification of the system of action when they are implemented, the responsible performers, the deadlines and the expected results. At the suggestion of the national deputy Sabashuk, the structure of the financial security table was changed, and a more detailed presentation was included in the first phase of the year. In general, the Committee insisted that the financial security of the program was increased by almost 20 percent, but we think that's not enough. Act adopted to amend the budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u204	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u205	Next, the law is necessary for the 2005 budget. To some extent it is not fully developed, it is not possible for the real financial part, well, it will allow the local councils and central authorities today to start drawing up budgets in 2005. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u206	Thank you. One of the national deputies who made the amendments is unaccounted for and insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u207	We have taken into account: proposals have been made, suggestions have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u208	Valery Pavlovich, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the hall. You don't have any? Then I'm voting on adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the Law on the Universal Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2004-2010. Registration number 4235. [[11:56:34]] For 334 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u209	Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u210	Listens to the draft Milk and Milk Products Act, rereading the second reading. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich will report. Please. Registration number 3076. We continue for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a bill on milk and dairy for re-reading. During the drafting of the bill, 123 proposals and comments were received to the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations by the Ukrainian National Deputies. They were all carefully considered at the meeting of the working group and at the committee meeting. The working group included the National Deputies, the best dairy professionals, and the Cabinet of Ministers. Most of the amendments were taken into account - 86 amendments. 37 amendments rejected. A large part of them relate to the extension of the terms used, which, in our view, will overwhelm the bill. However, the bill partially preserves certain positions that are not entirely in line with valid legislation. But given the importance of the dairy problem and the need to resolve it, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations requests support for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u212	Yes, dear fellows, who among the national MPs brought the bill are not included? Yes, please, Bespaly. Call the number of the edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u213	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Correction of 62nd. I'm not exactly an expert in the dairy sector by exclusion, perhaps using milk. But there's a legal, it's a legal document. And I really care about the norm when the name of the host is changed, and this change is not related to its restructuring, so nothing changes except the name. So that's the reason for the reagent. Retesting is a meaningful evaluation of activity, shaking and so forth, nervousness, extortion, and all that has to do with it. In our view, there should be an automatic check-in. Because if only the name and nothing else has changed. If the reorganization is changing, it's really, there's a reason for the reagent. In this case, I demand an automatic re-registration. So I'm asking you to support this, because it's perfectly logical, I think, to offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u214	You can agree here.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u215	The committee agrees? Is there a need to vote? None. Then the committee's proposal is accepted, and your consent is accepted. Please, Veratennikov. Nightly after him. I'm sorry. I'm still in bed with Bespalo. Bespalogo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u216	I am grateful to the very committee, thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that I have three legal features. So the next one is 77. It tells us that in this case the owners are obliged to pay attention, according to the version of the table that is proposed, to carry out other responsibilities established by law. And that means legislation -- that's all the central organs, and so on. This means that duties can be imposed by tax and anyone. I insist, and this is a requirement of legal technology to carry out only the responsibilities established by law for subjects. It's not a trifle, it's a principle. So I ask the committee to accept this, in my opinion, logical amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I think we need to hear Boris Jacobovich's logic about what's really legal. Is there no objection? Roger that. Please, what are the other adjustments? A sleepless microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u218	Thank you so much for your support. It's the 89th. The 89th amendment, she's talking about, well, actually, the authorization of control. And I suggest that the infringements are required. The removal of violations that violate not only standards, rules, rules, and requirements of State metrology but also the requirements established in accordance with legislation. Because requirements, in principle, may be different in nature, there may be, again, requirements that do not meet legislation. I think these restrictions, they may seem unnecessary to someone, but practice shows, you know, who hasn't seen a living metrologist or a tax collector, he thinks it's an extra warning, I actually, I think, a warning like that would be very useful.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u219	Do you agree with the committee? I agreed. Dear colleagues, I repeat to Yuri Anatoliyovich that I continue for 15 minutes. Please, Sleepless Mike. The session continued for 15 minutes. I already extended it 10 minutes ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u220	Boris Bespalyus, the city of Kiev. So the 111th law is the most important principle, and this is what it refers to: for violating this law, it is called upon to be responsible according to legislation. It is suggested that this responsibility be solely with the law, since responsibility in Ukraine is established solely with laws. It's a technical readjustment, and I don't think there's any objection here either. And I thank the committee for their understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u221	Thank you. Please, Nightshenko, then the Verethennikov. Nightshade, what's your correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u222	Thank you. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, "Trouble Ukraine". Most of my amendments are included, thank you. And the most important of these is that individual farmers and citizens who make up cows are referred to the number of dairy producers. Dear colleagues, let me see your head. But I have an amendment. Once the 60th amendment is taken into account, you have to go back to the 67th amendment. The bottom line is, if individual farmers and the population are not being tested, what document will they be working on? I made an offer that this document should be a veterinary act on the condition of the livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u223	What's the readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u224	Sixty-seventh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u225	Sixty-seven, please. The committee supports Noshchenk's proposals. Is there no objection? Another Noshchenka, please, microphone. Can't hear you, the microphone wasn't turned on. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u226	The most important hope of this law is the support of the milkmaker. My 107th amendment determines our attitude. I apologize: it defines how the price of milk appears to be processed and how the price will be charged when the product is made. This is suggested by the Professional Committee to refer to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. And order will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, but the framework is not defined. I made a suggestion that the price of milk, which seems to be 15 percent higher than the value of this milk, would also put an obstacle to the baseless increase in dairy products that would be implemented. It's a fundamental question. I'd like a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u227	Dear Mikola Petrovich, we have spoken with you on this matter. It can't be that the rule of law sets specific allowances, it's not a rule of law. As a result, we disagreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u228	Do you insist on voting, Mikola Petrovich? Don't insist. Then, please, the microphone of Verethennikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, my amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u230	The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u231	The twelfth amendment to the definition of milk products. It's written that dairy products are the ones that are derived from milk raw materials and can contain additives. And me. Well, you can take as many of these supplements as you want, you can have 5 percent milk, you can have another half milk, you can have whatever you want. So I suggest that 50 percent should be milk, no less, then the last one can be added. I'm not just an expert anymore, I'm a consumer. This is very important for each consumer to have at least 50 percent milk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u232	Let's agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u233	The committee agrees. Is there no objection? Thank you. All of them. Another Verethennikov microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u234	114, 115 together. This applies to fines. We already have so many fines, and we write that there is 100 percent fines. I think it's time to write "cut a fine according to the law." And everything, it's already in the laws. We've already got so many manufacturers fined, I don't think it's necessary to say, "The fine is 100 percent." "In accordance with the laws of the law."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u235	The thought of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u236	The point is, you suggested that a fine of 200 percent be clearly imposed. The committee rejected the amendment. Your amendment stipulated the size of the fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u237	Yeah, right. Dear colleagues, therefore, taking into account the proposals that we have agreed with you here, we have reason to vote on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the Law on Milk and Milk Products. Registration number 3076. Please vote. Oh, I'm sorry. Take down the vote. Matvienkov for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u238	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! We are now adopting a very serious law, which lays down a number of very global measures aimed at, let's say, European integration. Unfortunately, though, the village does not yet know that it is going to Europe today. The herd that we have today, the funds for the allocation or the replacement, which were not entirely allocated to the budget, not to the farms. The adoption of this law must be made clear that it will strike a small farmer, a part of who today produces milk. Finally, for the price and for the consumer, for a pensioner who is directly a consumer and will subsidize this production. That's why I have this proposal. Let us vote on second reading, but here are these cost-financing mechanisms so that we do not put all this on the pensioners today, which we will then include in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a law, the Milk and Milk Products Act, registration number 3076, taking into account the rights that we've agreed on here. [[12:09:22]] For 226 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Please, Sergey Mikolaiovich, there are many comments on the meat or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u240	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u241	Dear colleagues! Draft Law on Meat and Meat Products, registration number 3077 There are no observations. Nobody insists? Don't insist. Then I put to the vote the second reading and, in general, the Law, the Meat and Meat Products Act, registration number 3077. Vote. [[12:10:12]] For 231 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll continue our sessions. In line with our tradition, we are considering a question, a draft decree on the election and release of judges. At 12:30, you know, we're dealing with these issues. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenk, to report. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. There'll be fewer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u243	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the committee discussed candidates for office before the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Agriculture, the Court of Appeal and the local courts. I should point out that each candidate has been considered quite carefully, in accordance with the new Law on the Timeless Election of Judges, we've collected all the data in a few years, statistics. And those judges who didn't pass the committee, we just brought them back. And now you're looking at a few Supreme Council rulings, projects that we're asking for support, first and foremost, at Decree 5688. And the committee recommends that the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine be elected on an untimely basis: Lejszczenko Natalia Pavlovna, Selivona Alexandre Fedosovich and Chernoguza Fedor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u244	Yes, dear fellows, we are acting in a manner consistent with the law that we have recently passed with you. If there are any objections, remarks, questions about those candidates that are called in a draft decree, then the national MPs raise their hand, and we remove them from the general list for voting one or the other. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the session room. There were no comments, no questions about the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine without a deadline between Lashenko, Selivona and Czernoguza. We therefore have reason to vote on the election of the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the Supreme Council ruling, registration number 5688. Vote. [[12:34:17]] For 265 Decision taken. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u245	Unit 5689. It is recommended to select a non-scheduled term to the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Dedjeev, Yurya Semenović; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Chernov Svetlana Borisovna; the Court of Appeal of the Gitomir district of Rafal, Irina Mikolayevna; Court of Appeal of Kyiv District
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, remember that some of the applicants are sitting on the balcony on the second floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u247	The Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Vorobyov Natalya Semenovna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa district of Kulakov, Anatoly Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u248	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to know your surnames, please rise. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u249	Thank you. The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Kozevnik, Alexander Volodymyrovich, Okun Tetjana Viktorovna, Predkina Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u250	Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u251	Vladimir Yavorowski. I'm asking you to remove Okun from the list. Let's talk about this candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u252	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u253	Olga Valentine's Day's Riding; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Ponomarenko, Julius Anatolyevna, The bottom of Alexander Alexiyovich, Silina Arkady Borisovich; the Court of Appeal of the region of Montenegro; the Military Court of Appeal of the Southern Region of Nefedov Volodymyr Stepanović; the local Hartziski City Court of the Donetsk Region of Kodolov Vladimir Alexandrovich; The local Radomisl district court of Zitomirsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u254	I'm sorry. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u255	By Kodolu.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u256	Yes, it's being deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u257	Radomislski District Court of the Provincial Region of Svinic Leonid Valentinović; Bologna District Court of Zitomir Zalszczuk Mikola Sergiyovich; The Mukatov District Court of Zacarpathic Region of Goblik Ivan Ivanovich; The Provincial District Court of the Zakarpat district of Mishinchuk Natalija Stepanovna; Igor Ivanovich, the U.S. District Court of Zakarpatsky; The factory district court of Zaporozhye Manuilova Yuri Seraphimovich; Orjonikidzewski District Court of Zaporozhye Prokopchuk Tamara Stepanovna;
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u258	Yes, please, Prokopchuk? Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u259	The digger of Tamar Stepanovna. The local Kosovo District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Kriluk Maria Ivanovna; Yes, John Gabrieluk, I rightly called it, didn't I? Bilocerkov City Court of Kyiv Region Podrezezov Galina Alexandrovna The Borispoli District Court of Kyiv District, Constantine Petrovich; Squire district court of Kyiv district of Yarosenko Svetlana Mikolayevna; The Crimean District Court of Kiev, Lavric Valentina Vasilovna; Aleksandrian Regional Court of Kirovograd, Petuskova Sergia Anatoliyovich; Anthracite City Court of Luhansk, Chigrin Larissa Grigorovna; Biloukurakina District Court of the Luhansk district of Baranov Sergey Borisovich; The Red Cross City Court of Luhansk district of Pulach Tetjana Dmitrovna; The Lenin District Court of Lugansk Volika Olga Petrovna; Kamyanka-Buzki District Court of the Lviv district of Nazarkewicz Mikhail Mihajlovich; The Lenin District Court of Mikolayeva Kosak Violet Volodymyrna, Tikhov's Natala Stanislavna; The District Court of Odessa, Ivanchuk Valentin Ivanovich; Poltava District Court of Poltav.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u260	Vasil Vasilovich, is there anything else that almost doesn't rise that they're missing, which you call names?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u261	No, they all are.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u262	Not all of them. I'm looking, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u263	This way, from that side.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u264	Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u265	Galchenko Oksana Alexandrovna; the local Goschen district court of the region of Ravenna, Chronous Larissa Ivanovna; The Ravenna District Court of the Ravine district of Ostapchuk Larissa Vejacheslavna; the local Kovpak district court of Sumu Zabar Igor Klimentiovich; the local Podgayetsky District Court of Ternopil district of Kunz Ivan Mikolaiovich; the local Moscow District Court of Kharkiv Elizarov Igor Yevgenovich; the local Komsomol district court of Herson Koto Irina Vasilovna; The local Umani District Court of Cherkaske.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u266	Come on, where's the Hersonian Judge you call?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u267	Like Irina Vasilovna, please stand up. Him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u268	Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u269	Umánsk District Court of Cherkas, Marinchuk Mikhail Pavlovich; the local Obolonian District Court of Kyiv Tishuk Mikol Fedorovich; The local District Court of Kiev, Onosko, Irina Vitaliyevna. Then I ask that, except for those persons who are named here, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u270	Yes, Your Honor, I'm going to put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, registration number 5689 except for Ms. Tatyana Viktorovna, Mr. Kodolov Vladimir Alexanderovich and Mr. Prokopchuk Tamara Stepanovna. Please vote. [[12:40:14]] For 358 Judges are elected. Now, dear fellows, let us take note. Yes, please, Your Aunt Victorian's hand in the microphone. Who had any questions? At Yavorowski's. Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u271	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", Zovva, Yavorov, Lvivščina. My dear fellow national MPs! I keep thinking that the people have given us amazing powers to choose judges who will then judge people and judge them in justice. This is indeed a very responsible one. We have a judge in front of us, a very nice woman, and I find her, frankly, right now to ask these questions to me as a man, as a man, very sorry. But I still have to think about what we're going to hand over to this person today, or whether we're not going to give the authority to the judge of the District Court of Appeal, and she's going to consider the decisions of the local courts. I don't care how it goes. This figure was discussed on the committee, I was there, and for a very long time, meticulously, and with great passions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, please ask specific questions. Turn on the microphone, ask questions. It's not a speech, it's a question. Turn on Javorowski’s microphone and ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u273	Adam Ivanovich, I beg you very much: this is a fundamental question, there is nowhere that you should give me just one minute. I want to convince my fellow MPs to act on their conscience. Because of that. I was a two-time deputy in Svetłovodsk. It's next to Komsomolski. It's a labor town where everyone knows each other about each other. I want to say that this situation has happened: this judge has in fact had no judicial authority for almost two years, but she has tried some cases. I have confirmation of that. In addition, it is not just Yavorowski speaking. The People's Government Group also made a big request, and we didn't hear a specific answer. Above all, instead of 72 hours for the judge’s previous imprisonment, for example, she put a man in prison for three months — a terminally ill person. I propose, Adam Ivanovich, that in order not to offend Mrs. Okun, I would do such a wise thing, and ask the deputies to support me. It can lead the city court of Komsomolska, absolutely. I need her.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u274	Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u275	And I think let Okun explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u276	Please. Aunt Victoria, what can you say to these observations?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u277	Please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u278	But I can't ask questions because I didn't ask you questions. Please, Gabrieluk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u279	Okay, I'll give you an answer. My credentials ended on January 21, 2003. But I continued to exercise administrative authority, and I served as the head of the Komsomol City Court. I did not make any procedural decisions during this period. And I didn't do justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u280	Yes, please, Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u281	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention. In fact, this court is located in the territory of my district, and there have been the facts that my colleague has spoken about. But please note that Adam Ivanovich, truly Tatiana Victorovna, has not been on the committee for more than a year. I'm sure she realized everything that happened at the time and today I'm asking everyone to support her candidacy as a judge. I am confident that it will turn out to be a worthy and serious judge. I'd like everyone's support.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u282	Yes, dear colleagues, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, Mr. Yavorowski was really on the committee, he saw how difficult the candidature was, but I'm reporting on the position of the committee. After all, the committee, given all the circumstances, supported the Conkun as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u284	Yes, Your Honor, I'm questioning your decision to elect the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Okun Tetjana Viktorovna. Please vote. 2: 45:16 For 190 The decision is not taken. Please come back to the committee. Yes, please, the Javorov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u285	Dear colleagues! Dear Vassil Vasilovich! I'm just asking you to support my position. Let her be recommended to the head of the Komsomol City Court and I will be the first to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u286	So she can't be the head unless she's elected judge. She needs to be chosen by a judge earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u287	Who's to go back to the matter, please make up your mind. [[12:46:05]] For 221 By factions, please Our Ukraine - 42, Ukrainian regions - 59, Communist - 58, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party - 0, Ukrainian Labour - 0, SPU - 14, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 5, Center - 13, Union - 1, Democratic Initiatives, People's Government - 12, NDP and SPTU - 2, National Agrarian Party - 12, Postfaction - 3. [[united]] Please, the school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u288	Adam Ivanovich, I very much ask you to act within the Rules. I haven't had a run twice. about how I voted for her, for example, but here we have to respect ourselves. Then let's appoint judges by decision, I don't know, a presiding officer. All of it. Next time she'll be on the committee, next Thursday we'll be supporting this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u289	Karnauh, the microphone. Tell me, your microphone is on. But that's not where you're talking. Please, the Sulkov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u290	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You know, it's just been like this for the second time, and believe me, there's just not a lot of national MPs out there. Adam Ivanovich, there's a request, put it to a vote, the committee supports it. Indeed, the woman weeps, and it is unpleasant that she will go home and wait so long. Therefore, there is a request for a vote. And honourable deputies, let's support it, let it work and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u291	Karnauh, please. Karnauh, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u292	Thank you. Dear national MPs, we should respect ourselves, but with even greater respect for people, to those to whom we trust. There are no claims or arguments before this judge. So I propose to support you as an MP from the Poltava region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u293	Yeah, another half-wit wants it. Taran-Terren, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u294	Dear colleagues, we are really talking here about judges being fair, honest, and so forth. And I really believe Yavorowski, because this is his district. If, after all, at the end of Yavorowski said that she might be the Head of the City Court, but she should be elected a judge on a procedural basis. I would, however, ask Adam Ivanovich to put this question to the vote again and to support it. I'm with the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u295	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am going to close my eyes and put to the vote to return to this question. [[12:50:11]] For 204 The question is out. Please consider the committee. We have the right, in accordance with the Law that we have adopted, to return to the matter once again. Please, Kodolov Vladimir Alexandrovich, where?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u296	Dear colleagues, let me give you some information about Kodolov Vladimir, we've been looking at him on the committee and we're going back to his candidacy. The point is, after all these interrogations, he had a heart surgery. I have now, well, not only me, but the committee's concluded the Ukrainian Centre for cardiovascular surgery, where. Well, it's a difficult heart operation, not sure if it's going to work at all. He wrote us a statement and asked the Supreme Council to confirm it without his presence. I think the situation is extremely exclusive. And what we once did was, as a mockery, whether you can choose or not, I think you can recommend. The committee recommends him as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u297	The remark was made by the National Deputy of Komara. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u298	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich himself, I have a question not to the judge, but to the committee. Vassil Vasilovich, I received an interim reply about the inspection by the court administration. In this letter you write that there will be further studied materials and before I put this question to a vote, I would still like to get an answer to the questions that have been asked by the district administration, the judicial administration of Ukraine, and I need to find out these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u299	Thank you, thank you for that question. We have, in my hands, an answer from the State Judicial Administration to verify this data, and they recommend it to select a judge on an untimely basis, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u300	I've got other materials, I should, well, be able to relate to this whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u301	Well, we do. This is the latest material on the basis of what you're referring to, what you're saying, and before that was a test by the Ukrainian judges. The head of the district court was allowed to check. We checked all these facts several times. And each time we coded for election to a judge. Therefore, there is a proposal to support the candidate, all the more so in connection with the situation he is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, given the committee's stated head, I see it's almost supported by Mikola Stepanovich, let me put to the vote the Order to elect the judge of the local Hartziski City Court of the Donetsk district of Kodolov Volodymira Alexandrovich. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u303	A request for support. [[12:53:23]] For 288
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u304	Decision taken. Yes, please, Tamara Stepanov's Digger. Yes, there was a note. Baburin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u305	Baburin, the Communist faction. At the last meeting of the Supreme Council, the question was raised by Prokopchuk in Zavgradni, on the eviction of a mother with a minor child. The pending case is still pending, and criminal proceedings are being instituted. The following resonation was received: Let's get the voters to file a complaint against Prokopchuk. Disability of the third group, Tomikeev, caused her to become involved. I'm asking questions right now. In your practice, it was when you failed to fulfill your mother's will and separated your brothers. And your husband asked, and your mother asked before your death, you separated the brothers. And I have one last question. There's evidence that you had a trial with your mother, your sister. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u306	Please, Tamara Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u307	So it's about the civilian affairs of Gluharev-Zavrodnojna. A test was carried out. I said then, and now I'm saying that the decision has gained legal power, that the appeal has passed, that there have been no violations on my part. Today, this case is before the Supreme Court with a cassation complaint. As for two other questions, I do not understand them. It's not said what kind of people it is. I can't tell if I've had that kind of thing. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u308	Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u309	Dear colleagues, listen carefully. I can't even figure out what the pretenses of Prokopchuk might be. Yes, she was considering a particular matter, including the one that the national deputy called. But that decision became legal. No one canceled it. Even if cancelled, there must be proof that there is one on her side of the breach of an oath. Everything else is ordinary civil decisions or criminal cases, where one party is satisfied, the other party is not satisfied. We need to bring in facts here that would give us reason that we do not have the right to approve the dignitary as a judge. Yesterday, the committee unanimously, I stress, unanimously, all members of the committee have been nominated to serve as judges. And I'm asking you to do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u310	Babura’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u311	Vasil Vasil Vasiljevic, judges other than professional obligations must also have a moral dimension. I asked a specific question: Did she have a trial with her mother and her sister? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u312	Let him answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u313	Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u314	I didn't understand the question, who does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u315	I've come to realize that this has to do with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u316	Personally?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u317	That's you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u318	No, I was never in the business with my relatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u319	And the committee doesn't have that kind of data.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u320	Please, I am voting on the decision to elect the judge of the local Ordjonikiden district court of Zaporozhye Prokopchuk Tamara Stepanovna. [[12:57:20]] For 345. Decision taken. Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, please take the next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u321	Draft decision 5689. Suggested to elect judges on an untimely basis to the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Danube Natalia Georgieva; Dnipropetrov's Chamber of Commerce Court of Naumenk Ivan Fefodijovich; The Žitomir Farm Court of Appeal, Rudjan Ludmila Olegovna; Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Dentist Larissa Petrovna, Ludmila Volodymyrna's coffin; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Konyushka Kostin Volodimirovich, Mishchenka Petra Kirilovich, Samusenko Svetlana Sergiyevna; Luhansk’s Court of Appeal of the Foreigner’s Court of Appeal, Love Vasilovna; Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal of Agriculture of Gontar Viktor Ivanovich; the local court of the Volin district of Filatov Svetlana Timofievna; the local courts of the Žitomir district of Marischenko Larissa Alexandrovna; The local court-martial of the Luhansk district of Borrodin Larissa Ivanovna, Volodimir Dmitrovic; the local court of the Odessa district of Lesogorov Vitalia Mikolaiovich, Torchinsky Ludmila Alexandrovna; the local court of the Poltava District of Ivanitski Aleksija Thoković; The local court-martial of the Herson district of Pintelin Tetjana Georgievna, Chernyavska Valerija Vasilovich; the local commercial court of the Hmeljna district of Špak Viktor Alexandrovich; The local court-martial of the Cherkas region of Paschenko Antonin Dmitrovna, Potapenko Victoria Victoria; The local commercial court of Kiev, Demidov Allu Marjanovna, Hilinsk Victoria Victoria; The local court of the town of Sevastopol Iluchina Hann Pavlovna
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u322	Yes, Your Honor, the committee's proposal to your reputation is proven. If there's no objection. Leonid Chernewicki, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u323	Didn't I hear the Hillsky was listed, Kiev City Court?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u324	The Victoria Victorian is, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u325	So I want to tell you that all the judges who are here are a low tribute, because thanks to the judges, I have a very high opinion of the judicial system in general. We are here in general and elected to Parliament. But there are problems, of course. We are now electing a permanent judge. I have the greatest judicial practice with different courts, and I rely solely on the courts, because with power I never succeed in that sense. I have claims against Mr. Hillinski, they're very serious. Yesterday, Vasily Vasilievich, I put this to you on the committee, but since I had to go to Udovenko Gennadija Vasilievich to protect those bastards, I couldn't explain them. Please do not vote in favour of this candidature, this person does not understand the essence of the judicial status and votes on request.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u326	It's not him. It's her. I guess that's what we meant, right? Do you not understand who you mean? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u327	If she's a woman, I don't have the honor of being familiar with her. So it's a woman. I had five business cases in court. This man follows orders. I'm in charge of this and I'm ready for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, since this is Hilene Victoria Victoria, our colleague has no objection. Yeah? Well, tell me. Well, all right, we're removing the name Hilene Victoria Victoria, and you guys get rid of it, please. All right, let's delete the last name. Shi colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for a committee to elect judges on an untimely basis by removing Hilin Victoria Victoria Victorian. This is Project 5689-1. Please vote. [[13:02:03]] For 396 Decision taken. Microphone of Chernevski. Please base your claims on Hilin Victoria Victoria. Please. And Victoria Victoria, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u329	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vasili Vasiljevic knows well that if I had previously conducted 300 trials, 90 per cent of them against local authorities and various authorities, it is now 400, because I am being pursued through all possible channels that exist. I'm saying that Mrs. Hilinsky is following the instructions she's been given. Because I have an example, like a po. Well, they're all detailed in the note. When we judge with power, it always decides in favour of the local juvenile administration. It doesn't matter if it's Harikov or Kiev and so on. With regard to specific discussions, I will tell you that today our legislative field is not an option to justify any particular position, because laws are being violated everywhere and they do not exist at all. But if you take the truth of the matter. This man doesn't understand what a judge is.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u330	Yes, thank you. Please take the seat of the committee. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u331	Leonid Mikhailovich, I respect you, you know, as much as I respect my lawyer and colleague and even my friend. But I never agree with your position, because there is no position here. You or your structure were on the case. Of course, if a judge has made a wrong decision, someone is dissatisfied. There is a Supreme Court, there are higher courts, let them deal with the matter. If she's done something faithlessly, it's a separate bragging. Well, you can't approach a judge like that. I ask you to support this nomination on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u332	I'm voting for the election of a judge on an untimely basis in Victoria Victoria. Please vote. [[13:04:21]] For 303 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u333	Thank you. Draft decree 5690 on the dismissal of judges. This is the application of the High Council of Justice. Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Cyprus, Sergey Panasovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region, Djomić, Valentina Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Kiryan Mikola Sergiyyovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of Lviv Region: IsosimovaLeonida Fedorovich - in connection with the application for the resignation of Leik Viktor Romanović - also in connection with the application for resignation and Slusar Ludmila Antonovna - on the same grounds. Judges of the Court of Appeal of Poltava Region: Rokatenko Raisu Timofievna - a declaration of resignation, Sokolenka Fedor Fedorovich - for release at your own request; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Jaremczuk Volodymyr Alexiyyovich - in connection with his resignation from health, which impedes the continuation of his duties; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Gorelo Ninodymovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Commercial Court of Luhansk district of Matuk Anatoly Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kerchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Pavel Petrovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that impedes the continuation of duties; Judge of the Black Sea District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea SukhovaTamaru Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Railway District Court of Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, SazjekaAleksandra Alexandrovich - in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an arraignment against him; Judge of the Swalava District Court of the Zakarpat district of Sweden, Victor Alexandrovitch, in connection with the application for release at his own request; Judge Preyaslav-Hmalnicki District Court of Kyiv District of Dzubu Alexander Zaharovic, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of the duties; Judge of the Fastov Regional Court of Kiev Polishchuk, Alexander Stepanović, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the District Court of Kirovograd, Tertišní Sergey Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of the duties; Judge of the Bilovodsk District Court of the Luhansk district of Prosverkin Sergey Leonidovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Sokal District Court of the Lviv Region of Pavlik Oleg Petrovich - in connection with his achievement of sixty-five years; Judge of the Ochakov Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Koldin Ludmila Georgievna, in connection with the application for exemption at your own request; Judge of the Ivanów District Court of the Odessa Region of Križanów Alexander Alexiyovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the District Court of Odessa, Midlar Evgen Demyanović, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Suvorov District Court of Odessa ProssonovaAnatolia Alexandrovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Pristina City Court of Czernigiv County of Noshchenk Ivan Andryovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Czernovtske District Court of First Instance, Jakimczuk Vasil Kostaninović, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol Suhovershin Svetlana Sergiyevna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the local military court of the Darnitsky garrison, Mother Mikola Pavlovich, in connection with the application for resignation. The committee checked the statements, no pressure on any of the judges -- it's their will. That is why we support the application of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u334	Dear colleagues, when there is no objection, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree, registration number 5690, on the dismissal of judges. Please vote. [[13:09:07]] For 393 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the saddles that we have appointed to office on an untimely basis and wish them a fruitful service of the law, a guarantee of the rule of law. Out of procedure, please, Assadchev. The draft Law on Basic Principles of Civil Protection has been announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u335	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you once again of a case that, in my opinion, a week ago we made an illegal decision regarding judges. I want to remind you again that there may be different situations in this room. Today it is such a situation that it will do no harm, but time will pass and the situation will change. And then these judges, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking you to do this. I think it won't be a big deal if the Supreme Council confirms its decision in a week, because otherwise, I assure you, there will be serious problems. In my opinion, we broke the Rules and illegally appointed judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u336	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me inform you that the work has been continued for 15 minutes and about 14/10 I've put a motion on the vote to complete the consideration of the matter. The Supreme Council supported it. So everything was legitimate according to the Rules. Please report to the Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Project 5257.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u337	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We adopted this law in our first reading. He needed a very serious refinement, as indicated by, say, such figures. Some 453 specific comments and suggestions were received from the National MPs, all taken into account by clarifying the wording in part or in other articles 374, 15 were deleted. Most of the proposals were made by the People’s Deputy Rudenko, Anatoly Frost, Carmazin, Babourin, Bespallium. Most of these observations are taken into account. Individual comments are not taken into account. In addition, legal experts worked very hard on the draft law. We went back to him several times, and the last remark was made yesterday, and we've all taken them completely into account, and we've made the corresponding changes to ten more articles, and you have all of them. Individual articles are not supported by the committee. And if our colleagues insist, we need to look at them separately. In addition, we have proposed to change the title of the law, to which I ask to return after the whole bill has been considered. Let me tell you which. Article 10, 10th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u338	This may first be the case, though, with who among his colleagues insists on making adjustments. 10th is Yuri Carmazin, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u339	Well, first he was talking about unacceptableness, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u340	Yes, please, then, after the tenth amendment, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u341	10th Amendment. Suggests to delete items where terms are defined. Since this is a basic law, the committee believes that this should be abandoned. If Yuri Anatolyevich and Alexei Vasilovich insists, let us vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u342	Carmazine insists. Turn on the microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u343	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the committee for having seriously reworked this law, and this law already has a civilized character. I want you to look at the third amendment, the third amendment, the emphasis. And I'm addressing both the minister and the head of the Kruczkov Committee. Look, please. That's the third amendment. There's Karmazin's amendment, Baburin's, and Frost's equivalent. To give the title of the law in such a form, it is called civil protection of the population and territories against the extraordinary situations of technological, natural, and military nature. So we're completely writing in the title of the law the subject of knowledge. And in fact, it totally improves it compared to what it used to be. It used to be about basic principles of civil protection. Already, thank God, they've changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u344	Sergei Anatoliyovich, I suggested we go back to the question of the name of the law after all, when we consider it. Let's probably do that. That'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u345	Okay. Let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the title of the law be laid out in the following wording: The legal principles of civil protection. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. [[13:14:45]] For 342 Name accepted. Then the third amendment cannot be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u346	10th. Is Yuri Anatolyovich insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u347	We voted in favour of the first proposal for the name of the law. Since the title of the Civil Protection Law passed and received 342 votes in favour, your amendment is thus rejected. Yuri Carmazin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u348	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. I thought you'd take the correction completely into account, you're only partially counting, because I said that the legal principles, that's the glory of God that we do, but it would be better if we recorded civil protection of populations and territories from the extraordinary situations of technological, natural, military nature. That's why most of the deputies were voting right now because my amendment was announced, and in time you extended the vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u349	No, dear fellows. Since we had a conflict, differences arose in the formulation of the name of the law, it was decided to go back to the first amendment and vote on the first amendment. The first amendment is the amendment of Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, which was supported by 342 votes, which is that we don't vote. Name of law accepted. All of it. Who insists on their amendments, please, that are out of the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u351	Pussy, please. The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u352	249.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u353	Georgi Korneevich, we've talked to you, this amendment fits in harmoniously, bringing together the efforts of central and local authorities. I don't see any reason to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u354	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is, in fact, a link in the law, such as areas, such as areas. That is why we need to support this proposal. Let's support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u355	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to support the amendment of 249 national deputies, Alexander Pecklesenka. Let's vote for it. The voting shall be amended as number 249. Please vote. [[13:17:25]] For 343 Correction accepted. Boris Bespali, please, microphone, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u356	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", Kiev. I am. The 438th amendment, this is page 140: for a violation of legislation there is a liability established by law, which is absolutely correct. But in the final edition, the committee suggests that the types of responsibilities were only administrative and criminal. In the meantime, there has to be a civil liability, because there's not always an administrative criminal responsibility, in the property sphere, for example, that's civil law. And so I would ask the committee to add necessarily civil liability under the law, without which it will be incomplete. And even after the same amendment, it was first edited as a base, and then deleted as a "disciplined responsibility." It's in this area. If we remove it, either there will be no disciplinary responsibility, or rather it will be inconsistent with the law, rather with self - will. So I think discipline and civil law should be added, and then the article will be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u357	I won't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u358	Let's support the amendment of 438 Boris Bespalogo by adding the words "discipline and civil liability." The committee supports. [[13:19:06]] For 288 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u359	If there are no others, I suggest you accept the second reading as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u360	I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Change the vote. Insomnia, please. I'm sorry, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u361	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You haven't arrived yet, you haven't seen the amendments. We've improved this law substantially. But I'd like to vote again. At least listen to the committee head's opinion on these things: I suggested the 130th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u362	That's cool!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u363	130, rejected. I'm going to make a few amendments. 130: "The part of the second article 19 reads as follows: "the leadership and organization, the implementation of the actions of the territorial sub-system of the single State system of the executive branch of the protection authority shall be carried out in accordance with this law and other legislative acts governing action in the area of civil protection." The point is that we have the executive branch in place, and their role needs to be clearly defined. So I'd like the committee to take this into account. He's somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u364	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, we have just supported the offer of colleague Pecklusenko and have resolved the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u365	We've already counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u366	We counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u367	Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u368	Thank you. Is that how it's made, counted, only in a different edition? It's just that the situation after this vote has changed. Yes, thank you. Now, article 80. Article 80: "According to Ukraine's Emergency Response Assistance." It's completely empty, this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u369	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u370	Amendment 434. And there are 430, see the 79 - article amendment. I mean, I don't think we have completely empty articles that don't carry any weight. And it says, "Assistance conditions are determined by Ukraine's legislation and international treaties." Well, that's understandable. So let's throw out, let's not just dump legislation. This applies to 80 articles, and I think this should be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u371	It's a basic law. And the functions of this service are to provide assistance to the civil protection of other states that Ukraine is doing. And getting help, when we need it, it happens. Such a law certainly requires that it be fixed. I ask you to reject this amendment from my colleague Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, whom I deeply respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u372	Yuri Anatoliyovich, can you ask them not to insist, because there are revisions by the 80s, they're accounted for, and then this whole structure goes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u373	If there's no more, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u374	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading as a whole as a bill of the draft Civil Protection Act. Registration number 5257. Please vote. [[13:22:44]] For 403 The law is passed. The draft Law on the establishment of a procedure for the calculation of the citations of representatives of local self-government shall be announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich is the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u375	Dear colleagues! Your point is a little bill that we've already adopted in the first reading. Its goal is to organize a system for calculating the terms of the vocations of local self - government councils. The fact is that there are many differences in the calculation of these terms today. There are 23 summonses today, 19 summonses, 4 summonses, 4 democratic convocations and so on. This numbering is also complicated by the fact that the numbering of these calls differs from that of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the first reading, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the bill. In preparing for his second reading, he was further developed in terms of legislative requirements. We are grateful for your help in this regard to the Legal Office of the Supreme Council. Now this bill has 4 articles that set the general order of numbering, as well as the features of the numbering of phone calls chosen in the next election, and in the case of the creation of a new council, the so-called first election. There is also an article that sets an end to the situation and recommends that the Cabinet of Ministers bring its acts into line with the requirements of this law and that the local authorities make their own decisions and ensure that the law is implemented. The committee requests that the bill be supported in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u376	Dear colleagues, all the amendments that have been made to this project have been taken into account, and therefore there is good reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft law on the determination of the procedure for the calculation of the citations of representative bodies of local self-government, registration number 4188. Please vote. [[13:25:07]] For 322 The law is passed. A draft law on the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis is being announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] Rapporteur of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u377	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! On May 18, this year, we sent a bill to restore the rights of persons deported on the basis of a national sign of re-reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations received 18 comments and suggestions from national deputies, five of whom were taken into account in part or in an editorial manner. As a result of taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, it is clear that its standards will be aimed at ensuring the rights of Ukrainian citizens from the number of deported. We have avoided some political evaluations in the Preamble of the Law that have raised some objections to the Supreme Council. It was reported that a number of articles of the law took effect on January 1, 2005. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian National Deputies to the fact that the bill has been passed, since there have been some such speeches aimed at restoring the rights of persons of uncertain nationality, one or two, and all those persons who have been deported by national status. So the Supreme Council Committee of Ukraine is drafting the Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Signs of Approval on Second Reading and Overall as Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u378	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? The committee's proposal to your knowledge is proven. No objections, no warnings? So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, as a law, a draft law on the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis, registration number 4526. Please vote. [[13:27:40]] For 380
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u379	I want to thank everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u380	For 380. The law is passed. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on higher education is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur: Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Nikolayenko Stanislav Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u381	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Science and Education received a number of comments on this Law. Such amendments were 12, very serious, and the Committee took them all into account. Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets discussed the matter in detail at its meeting. After that, our committee suggests that we also consider part of the budget committee’s proposals. This is, in particular, the removal from the Law of Articles 123 and 125 of the Earth Code, the separate provisions of article 54 of the Law on Corporate Income Taxation. The point is that the cost of teaching at VUZA and vocational schools is limited to the country’s educational institutions. And also removing the position that private higher education institutions are nonprofit organizations. With these amendments in mind, I propose to vote on the Law as a whole. Today, the student mass, the lecturers and the public of Ukraine are awaiting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u382	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote a proposal by the Committee, taking into account the clarifications that have just been made, to be adopted in the second reading and as a whole as a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on higher education, registration number 5480. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u383	400 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u384	Please vote. [[13:29:34]] For 406 The law is passed. And now. Dear colleagues, John the Rabbit has appeared, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatization process is taken into account. [[Registration number 1224]] Reporter: First Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy Ivan Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have adopted the Environmental Auditing Act. In view of the adoption of this law, we need to amend the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property. If we make these changes now, we will have a number of bills on this direction of action. So I would like to support this bill on amendments to the Law on Privatization of State Property on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u386	No Warnings? Ah, there's Yuri Carmazin. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u387	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I've postponed the table because you're translating the laws, but you see how you put it today. We don't have a machine like yours. I'm asking you to look into it somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u388	The first amendment of Yuri Carmazin. He suggests that part five of article two should be presented in such an editorial and that a lecture is still being given. Please argue with Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u389	No text.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u390	I can tell. It can be accepted by Karmazin, but it cannot possibly become part of the fifth; it can become part of the third, since there is no fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u391	Well, what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u392	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u393	I'm voting on Amendment No. 1 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:31:57]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. There is also the amendment of the second and third Yuri Carmazin. I'll read the second amendment. Part three of article seven is to be supplemented by a new paragraph in the eleventh. They ensure a mandatory environmental audit of objects prior to their privatisation by selecting the performer by conducting an open tender in accordance with the requirements of Ukrainian law. At the same time as the purchaser pays the purchaser for the purchaser’s right to an object, parts of the object pay proportionally for the cost of carrying out a mandatory environmental audit. In this regard, paragraphs 11, 15 are considered to be paragraphs 12.16. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u394	The committee rejects this proposal. Because these standards are contained in the environmental audit bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u395	I'm voting on amendment number two, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:33:11]] For-78 Correction not accepted. The amendment of the three Jury of Carmazin is that a mandatory environmental audit is carried out. To this end, the performer of this audit shall be selected by means of an open tender in accordance with the requirements of the law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u396	This amendment is similar to the previous one. Again, this is about the positions that are set out in the Environmental Auditing Act. Therefore, the committee suggests that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u397	I'm voting on amendment number three, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:33:53]] For-69 The decision is not taken. All adjustments are taken into account. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and as a whole a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that environmental requirements are taken into account in the privatisation process. Registration number 1224. Please vote. [[13:34:39]] For 369 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u398	Thank you, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u399	The draft Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Pedagogical, Scientific and Pedagogical Payments and Other Education Workers, provided for in article 57 of the Education Act. [[second reading]] Who will report from the committee? Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u400	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, I would ask you to be a little bit considerate of this law, because we on the committee have made a number of amendments and agreed with the Education Committee. Now we're going to propose to vote on them. If we don't vote on these amendments, the law actually remains what it was in the first reading, and it's actually going to be declarative. According to the bill, no amount of money is received by teachers because the government does not recognize, that is, Minfin does not recognize this debt today. And our amendment is recognized as the law. That's a very principled question. So I would now like, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote the amendments that have been rejected. They were rejected only because there was no quorum on the budget committee yesterday, and they were voted on. The amendments are linked. If we vote, say, the second amendment, we have to vote all because they're bound together and they're leaking out to each other. If we don't vote them, then we can vote on the law that it is, but it's just going to be declared, I'll let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u401	Dear colleagues, before you, there is an amendment number two, made by Valérie Assadchev, Nikolainko, Zagreva. They were not voted yesterday in connection with the absence of a quorum. I'm putting to the vote this amendment, amendment number two. [[13:36:56]] For 235 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u402	Thank you. I'll do it then.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u403	Calm down, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u404	I beg of you, dear friends, once again. I thank you so much for voting, but then I ask others, because they are bound together. We have now entered into another legal field and voted on other amendments as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u405	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 3, once again, Assadcheva, Nikolayenko, Warm, the argument has been put to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u406	We agreed with the Education Committee. [[13:37:38]] For 238.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u407	Correction accepted. What if all the adjustments are immediately made? — Matthew 24: 45 - 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u408	If possible, by one vote, please, because they are bound together.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u409	I put to the vote the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, and the seventh.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u410	I'm asking you to back me up. [[13:38:08]] For 249
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u411	Corrections accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u412	Thank you. Dear friends, I very much ask you to make a historic decision in this room: to vote on this bill in the second reading and in general to take these amendments into account. And believe me, we're gonna help our teachers. Please vote everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u413	I'm voting for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law of accounting. Change the vote. Richter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u414	Dear National Deputies! The law is really necessary. We have now voted on all the amendments. The suggestion is that the Cabinet of Ministers should calculate the extra amount, and what the amount will be, and maybe more than we are counting now, and some articles should be left for third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u415	Dear friends, I'm going to answer that question right now: an estimated estimate says that this sum is up to 5 billion. But this bill does not affect the budget this year, and payments will only start in 2005, so it does not affect the budget this year at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u416	Dear colleagues, please calm down! The point is that the amendments were all voted on. Now something can't be moved to a third reading. I have to put it to a vote. Please cancel the vote. Nicolanca, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u417	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, our faction and our committee would vote in favour of any solution to the 57th article. It's an absolutely tolerant law. We give the government time. It will be determined, calculated by the end of this year in these months. Valérie was a little bit wrong here: four billion debt, we already know that debt. And over a period of time, if they put it out in a year, thank God, but we give the term: no more than five years. So I would like to support this law. He's perfectly normal, he's waiting for two and a half million teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u418	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u419	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to approve in the second reading and generally as a law that takes into account the amendments that have just been made to the bill on restructuring the debt from pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical payments to other employees of education provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. Registration number 3613. Please vote. [[13:40:56]] For 417 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u420	Dear friends, thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u421	A draft regulation on the approval of the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2005 is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Budget Affairs We continue our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u422	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is on a draft regulation that was drawn up by members of the Committee on Budget Affairs and that we worked on in the summary of parliamentary hearings on the government's main budget policies." We've taken into account the absolute majority of the proposals that came to the budget committee. The vast majority of them were in agreement with the government and they are accompanied by a unanimous decision made by the Main Committee. We include 29 Supreme Council proposals and 55 assignments. Dear colleagues, I have to inform you that unfortunately, part of the budget committee's proposals have not been able to calculate physically. This is about the proposals made by the distinguished Alexander Alexander Moroz, the proposals made by Vasil Gabrieluk, the proposals made by the U.S.S.S.P.P., and this is about the fact that they came just before the committee's draft decision was formed, and not all of them came into the final line. I would also like to inform you that we have included in your proposed draft decision proposals that were discussed at the Coordination Council at the Head of the Supreme Council on the issues of local self-governance of extremely painful problems related to local budgets. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The committee did not support just one proposal from those discussed at the meeting. It is a matter of taking account of not less than 10 percent of the expenditure of the State budget to the agrarian sector. Since this proposal has not entered into the final decision, I would like to put this proposal separately to the vote. It was signed by an absolute majority of the Agrarian faction colleagues, and it's found. Not only will he find support in the hall and put in a whole draft decision taking that position into account. In assessing, we've given enough time to evaluate the very basic policies of budgetary policy and the only thing that I would like to see is what strategic directions of the new government's budgetary policy. What will be the difference between the real budget, the financing of the basic programming provisions, and the direction the government is going to focus its financial resources on. Are we going to overcome the crisis that has taken place in the housing industry today, because it really doesn't take that much money, the government is silent about it in its budget resolution? Are we now ready to make a breakthrough in the implementation of pension reform and to allocate the amount needed to significantly improve the lives of pensioners and to ensure that, finally, the 46th article of the Constitution of Ukraine is implemented to ensure that the pension in Ukraine is equal to the standard of living for pensioners? Do we finally have to channel a major amount of budget into the region to carry out real investment distortions in order to make our regions investment attractive? Or take real steps in social policy. Unfortunately, the answer to this in the budget resolution, in the draft guidelines for budgetary policy, which was proposed by the government, you won't find and you won't hear. But the solution that you're offered is a compromise option, an option that corrects the obvious problem issues contained in the budget resolution, and we hope that this option can be approved, can find support in this room. We have deliberately tried to move away from the politicization of this process, and the vast majority of the proposals made to the Committee of Budgets are included in this general draft regulation. So I'd like to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u423	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I will set up this amendment separately, and I wanted to inform you of what Peter Alexiyovich was talking about. At the Advisory Council, with the participation of the leaders of all areas, I mean district councils, local self-government associations, it was unanimously decided to propose to the Supreme Council to write in the 2005 Main Directions of Budget Policy a position that at least 10 per cent of the public budget expenditure should be directed towards the development of the agrarian sector. We talked about it, we supported it. I put this motion to the vote to include it in the Draft Decree, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u424	Please be supportive. [[13:47:01]] For 351
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u425	Puydenka, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u426	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u427	Phydenko with motive and now we're going to vote. Dear colleagues, we have already held parliamentary hearings, all questions have already been discussed. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u428	Peter Alexiovich, please. A number of cultural financing aspects did not come into play. I would very much like, in paragraph 2, after the words "balanced economic growth," to add: "to ensure the financial dependence between economic growth and cultural development." At the end of paragraph 15, in the social sphere, replace the term "social cultural sphere." And add the following sentence: "The basis for managing budgetary resources in the field of culture should be the standards and standards of minimum public services." In paragraph 18, after "health protection," add the word "culture" and then after the text. In paragraph 18, add the following: "The formation of inter-budget relations between government budgets and local budgets should come from economically sound expenditure on the provision of cultural services per capita." I would very much like to add these moments to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u429	Dear colleagues, I see that from the voice of a lot of suggestions, we are now going to stress a lot of things. There's a document that the Budget Committee has proposed, let's take some ground. I see a lot of people wanting to make proposals right now. To write if they were - let's look at them. Please, before this proposal, the position of the committee just made by the People’s Deputy, Phydenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u430	The committee considered this proposal. In the context of this, we would not object to supporting it. Unfortunately, however, the current concept of budgetary policy, as reflected in the Code of Budgets, provides for a different way of taking into account the social standards on the basis of which the financing of local budgets should be determined. That's why, given the rigid position of the government, unfortunately, it's not relevant right now. and the status of the Supreme Council Order will certainly be lower as regards the current budget code. I suggest that we take this position into account when making changes to the Budget Code, not only in the 2005 budget, but once and for all, in this way, in the formulation of local budgets. That was the explanation for the rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u431	Dear colleagues, we will no longer make proposals. If you have a lot of motives, please, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, then Noshchenko, then Baraniwski, but there will be no vote on the proposal. Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u432	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to express my gratitude to the Committee on Budgets for taking into account our almost all proposals on defence issues. That's the answer to yesterday's discussion. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the budget resolution that the government was making, there wasn't even a notion of defense. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u433	I thank you very much for your appreciation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u434	Mikola Nightshenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u435	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm referring to the vote amendments to your amendment, which we voted for effectively. There's an offer to add one word, 10 percent of what you said to develop the agricultural sector and the village, because the village is falling out. I have dozens of villages in the district where there is no legal person in the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u436	I think it's editorially possible to count. Thank you for the offer. The committee agrees, that's it. Alexander Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u437	We'll take an editorial into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u438	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Well, we're doing things as fast as we have a comparative table that we've been adding to the budget resolution, the faction of socialists has been proposing to increase it to 2 billion dollars to return savings to be reflected in the budget resolution. The second question. We have just voted on the Law. A debt under article 57 in front of teachers. In our opinion, then, socialists would have to be included in the Budget Resolution, resulting from the adoption of this law, in order to anticipate the cost of repayment of debt, both in the fifth year and the following years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u439	Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u440	Thank you. The adoption of the law, the law is mandatory for all, including the government, and it certainly has to take into account the requirements of the law that has just been voted upon, provided that it is signed by the President. Because, so far, we are based only on existing legislation, and a bill that is not signed by the President cannot be taken into account in the main directions of budgetary policy. But I fully support the position expressed by the distinguished Alexander Petrovich. And I don't object to the government's mandate to write down the 57th article's spending commission in accordance with existing legislation. The law voted will be the same. It's about savings. In fact, the Socialist faction came from a supply of two billion. In the proposals that you are now proposing for the vote, there is a well-established position on the need for a substantial increase in the cost of savings to citizens. And I think not to limit a particular number was the compromise with the government they went to. I think we can take this decision in this paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u441	Dear colleagues, in order to maintain regular cleanliness, please note. Before you put the whole thing together, one minute. I'm betting on the vote for the first project that brought the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2005. Registration number 5561. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u442	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please take down the vote. Dear colleagues, according to the Code of Budget, there is a procedure for the Budget Code, not for the Rules of the Supreme Council. In line with the Budget Code, the Supreme Council’s conclusions and proposals prepared by the Budget Committee should be the first to be considered. This is a regulatory requirement of the Budget Code, and I ask that we act in accordance with the procedure laid down in budgetary legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u443	Then take down the vote, explain the committee. I would ask the honourable national deputies not to mislead me then. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the adoption of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Basics of Budget Policy for 2005. Registration number 5561-D, as amended. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u444	The Committee on Budgets supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u445	Vote please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the position of the government is to accept, one minute, the position of the Supreme Council to adopt the budget resolution. The Minister's office will determine what he's counting, what he's not counting, why he's arguing. What are we doing here illegally? I'm talking to the leaders of MP groups and factions, so let's show our faces for once. I am voting on the approval of the entire draft Supreme Council Regulation on the approval of the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2005 with proposals that have been taken into account. Registration number 5561. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u446	Dear colleagues, all the factions' proposals are taken into account. If you don't vote, you're not giving the government a mandate to form a budget today. Thank you. [[13:55:17]] For 328
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u447	The law is passed. Decision accepted, I'm sorry. A draft Law on Housing, Utilities, and Economic Services is being announced for consideration. The reporter of the Desert Tenko Valerij Pavlovich is the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u448	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of the Third of February 2004 adopted the draft Housing Services Act as the basis. The bill was drafted by a national deputy, a member of our committee. Empty tank, Raznikov, Kruglov, Kostinuk, Petrenko. This draft law and the draft state-wide programme on housing and utility development for 2004-2010 will complement each other. We think that the problem of reforming the sector should start with reforming housing relations. It is the problems of establishing a civilized relationship between manufacturers, performers and consumers exclusively on a contractual basis that should form the basis of sector reform. By the way, the law is a form of contract, where only substantial conditions are listed in 19 points. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to prepare forms of standard contracts within three months. The introduction of a system for the transfer of authority is essential. By contract from the owner to the payee, from him to the manager, and from now on, contracts for the execution of services can be made. It is still in operation today, only the functions of individual parties to a contractual relationship are not defined. So there's confusion and chaos. Some contracts may work, but only with the consent of the parties. It is important to determine the rights and obligations of each of the potential parties to a contractual relationship. The last day of the government showed great interest on the part of society in the pricing and tariff-setting system in housing and services. This problem in the draft law is devoted to a whole series and a whole chapter. We believe that the adoption of this law will help improve the situation of our people and improve efficiency in the field. In preparation for the second reading of the draft Housing Services Act, there were more than 227 proposals. The comments of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority were largely taken into account, at the suggestion of the national deputies of the articles, which caused the most contradictions, were deleted. Instead, a new article was included: "Rights and duties of the owner of the apartment, house, building, complex of buildings" In addition, the content of the articles was significantly improved and the principle of certification was also replaced from mandatory to voluntary. That is, the existence of a certificate must confirm the ability of any other performer to provide quality services. A number of rules relating to breaks in housing services, their fixation and the way in which money is compensated to consumers have been clarified. Consumer claims to performers have been simplified. The total is 80 proposals, 74 in editorial form, 18 in partial, 38 in negative. 79 editorial rights entered. Please support this law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u449	What are some warnings, fellow believers? Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u450	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Kiev. Well, I don't actually have any objections. On the contrary, I think this law is necessary and very important. I have an offer only after I've improved it. This is a specific amendment to the 27th. The point is that our legal persons working in this area can be businesses or organizations, and sometimes they have the status of institutions. So what I'm proposing to be complete is that we don't have any colossals, because this is about cash flows and so on, financial documentation, where accuracy is needed, I suggest that we just consider the 27th amendment, which adds to the list of provisions that are supported, also adds to the list, in addition to enterprises and organizations, and also to the institution. That's what I think we need to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u451	Okay. I want to say that this amendment has been considered. Partially counted. I agree with Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u452	Dear colleagues, I think we'll consider it an editorial amendment. Is there no objection? What are some other warnings? You don't? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u453	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Valery Pavlovich, thank you for taking many of my amendments into account. But the portion was also rejected. So I'm drawing your attention to the 33rd amendment. I'm not going to propose to everyone. But I want the document to be beautiful, that is, it meets all legal standards. See part 2 of article 4 of the paper: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine may consent to the obligation of an international treaty, the text of which contains rules that conflict with this law only after amendments to this law have been made and become effective.” Why do I write like that? Because we can now, by some laws, simply make our citizens worse, which is getting worse all the time. This is exactly the area of housing and utilities. So what I'm saying is, let's put it this way, if we just make it worse, let's make some changes here to make the citizens. It was open and open. Let's vote for this amendment. I'm not pink.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u454	There were two amendments. There was a repair of Boris Bespalogo. The law is in effect to replace the word with legislation. We've fixed it and it's counted. And the people's deputy Carmazin was rejected, because, according to international treaties, we provide for the Supreme Council to be a valid other law.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u455	I'm voting on Amendment 33 of Yuri Carmazin. [[2:02:31]] For-76 Correction not supported. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the Housing, Municipal and Economic Services Bill. Registration number 3315. Please vote. [[14:03:03:03]] For-300 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u456	Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u457	A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law is being announced for consideration. And I announced a 15-minute extension. About the radio frequency of Ukraine. [[new editor]] [[second reading]] Reporter of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u458	Dear National Deputies! On yours. A second reading of the amendments to the Radio Frequency Act is proposed to your consideration, and on May 12, the Supreme Council accepted it as a basis and instructed the committee to elaborate a bill that takes into account comments and suggestions. A working group of nine experts was set up to work on the profile committee, comprising official representatives of Statecommunity, the National Television Foundation, the General Staff, the Operator Associations, and so forth. A total of 248 amendments have been made, all of which have been taken into account, and the bill is fully in line with the observations made by the national deputies, authorities, and the State Liaison Committee. As a result, its content is greatly improved. It is as close as possible to the form of a law of direct action. First. Improved radio frequency conversion mechanisms. It's different. The problem of double-licensing of television speakers has been addressed. Third. The procedure for licensing liaisons has been improved. Four. European mechanisms for state administration and independent regulation in the field of telecommunications have been defined more clearly. The bill is recommended for adoption in a second reading. According to experts, the new law is in line with the requirements of the present and further development of Ukrainian radio frequency. There's one little note. The State Liaison Committee, literally today, has requested in article 40 of Part Four, instead of the words "use the radio band application" asking to put "inside the lane". This is a technical amendment, but for the protocol, I would also like to take it into account as agreed by the second reading committee. And I would like to ask the MPs to accept this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u459	Dear colleagues! Those who insist on amendments may be considered incomplete or unaccounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u460	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, all the adjustments are taken into account, but there was one problem. The amendment of the esteemed Yuri Carmazin for technical reasons simply failed during the consideration, the secretariat of our committee brings great apologies, and there has been a mere technical indignation. All the other corrections, they're all accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u461	It's counted, too, I understand? Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u462	Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, in fact, we have improved the law very seriously. And I'm going to ask you to support this bill. I'm not insisting on the wrong, not the right thing to do. I think the 250 amendments that are included in this Law are, in fact, I want to thank Lucenka for being a civilized, European law. But now it's up to the executive authorities -- what we're going to do with it -- whether it's going to be done properly or not. I would like to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u463	I put to the vote a proposal for adoption by the Committee in the second reading and in general as the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Radio Frequency Resources, registration number 4339. [[new editor]] Please vote. [[2:07:01]] For 393 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u464	Thank you very much on behalf of the liaisons.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u465	Announcing the draft Law on Support for Production and Development of the Agricultural Product Market. [[second reading]] Sergey Teryohin. I'm sorry, third reading. Please focus.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u466	Dear National MPs, I remind you that this Law is probably the first attempt at legislative formation(?) the legal field, which should only be subject to the regulation and promotion of agricultural production and the market for agricultural products. This is a basic law aimed at establishing a clear relationship between the State and the manufacturer that establishes financial, various financial, budgetary support. The Law is made up of six chapters. It's also price support, it's insurance subsidies, it's collateral transactions, it's deregulation and regulatory market support. It's finally a very important size, it's animal subsidies and a final chapter. So, on the third reading, 179 rights were introduced, of which 26 were rejected. Of these 26, 20 were rejected in connection with changes in the law, technological deviations, and 6 were conceptual. If there are any amendments to the question, we need to take a walk. And the last. After negotiations with Minfin and the left insurance organizations in that chapter on insurance subsidies, instead of one percent of the insurance payments on all insurers, it is proposed to enter 2 percent, but on those who work in the agricultural field. So this is going to be a special fund for the cost of premiums for the use of insurance services for manufacturers, for the cost of manufacturers. So with this remark, if there are any amendments, let's go through it, there are some questions, if not, my point would be to accept it. And the only thing you can see is that there are some suggestions from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Legal Authority, to allow legal and legal expertise to be made in terminology in order not to alter the substance, to put in a more normal legal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u467	Let's move on to the vote, because there's no one to vote on. Morozov, Vaszczuk. Very briefly, please. Morozov's microphone, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u468	I'm asking you to answer. How does 116 and 118 readjustments on insurance taxes sound? Because it's not clear what you're suggesting, we're shooting 116, 118 revisions, or what's it going to sound like?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u469	No, I'm sorry, there can't be a recording. Because the only sector in the economy that has to have a solid subsidy on insurance payments, as is done around the world. It is proposed that, in the first phase, the Insurance Grants Fund should be set at this rate of two percent of the gross on insurance providers in the agrarian insurance market. Moreover, it is clearly a civil responsibility, life insurance, and so forth. The rest of the insurance companies won't be in this system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u470	Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u471	Dear colleagues, 53rd is my correction. This relates to the fact that I propose to complete the list of goods for which prices are regulated in Ukraine. You've noticed, it's all plant production. Animal production, beef, pig meat, bird meat, ram meat, cream oil, it is counted, written in paragraph 15.11, but it is not. Why? Because there's another point. In the event of damage to animal production, the Cabinet of Ministers sets a minimum level of purchase prices for the production by agricultural producers of animal products, taking into account the characteristics of the production of this product in natural climate zones and to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u472	What kind of correction is that? Catherine Timothy, what is the correction? Turn on the microphone, please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u473	If not in this section of Terhochin contradicts it, let it be in 15.11, but in such terminology. Because it's fundamentally important. It's the animal production that's causing the biggest damage today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u474	I'm very sorry, you can't explicitly agree with this. What does Catherine Vaschuk say? If necessary, the Cabinet of Ministers will install meat - three rubles for the entire market. There is an order in which to make this meat. It's written that in case I now quote, "As the central authority of the state executive, Min APK, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sets a minimum allowable level of prices for animal production, which is used as a basis for the calculation of subsidies." Kabmin wants to set a fixed price, no questions asked. There is a system of grants, let it compensate for this difference. You're proposing administrative determination. And from where these cost-recovery costs will come, no one can see. Thus, Min APK 1511 was fully agreed, and the Ministry of Finance agrees with him, for this is a normal price mechanism for the consumer of meat, milk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u475	Is the Minister's office supporting this? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The Cabinet of Ministers supports what the national deputy Teryohin has to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u476	All of it then. Please, Frostov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u477	In view of the fact that 116 - 118 amendments were not considered on the committee, I propose that they be voted here in the hall, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u478	I'm sorry, all the papers have been reviewed by the committee. And so if we start destroying the logic of insurance subsidies right now, it's not clear how the minimum, maximum prices will be then, and what to do with the subsidies, what to do with the guarantees and loans that will be paid at the expense of the budget? So I wouldn't want the insurance market here at the expense of, I'm sorry, the agrarian sector is a little bit out of the way. I'm asking you to take into account my insurance claim, which should be two percent of the premiums to the insurance fund by insurers who provide insurance services to the agrarian market, to adopt this law in the third reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u479	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt in the third reading and as a whole the bill of the Law on Support for Production and Development of the Agricultural Product Market. Registration number 3064. Please vote. I would like to ask your colleagues to come to the committee, not the session room, for your suggestions. [[14:15:37]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Vaszczuk, please. Well, you can’t afford to wait for a plenary meeting and find out what your relationship is! Please, Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u480	Vladimir Mikhailovich! We were the only ones who asked for a readjustment. There are different visions, but neither can we. If we set minimum prices on the stock market for plant products, the stock market can also be used for the sale of animal products. Why do we have some rules for one product, some rules for another? Animal production is the most profitable today. I don't understand the position of the Ministry here. Today the problem, the worst sector, is animalry. And let it be written like we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u481	I'm putting to the vote Amendment 53 of Vaszuk, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u482	I'm sorry! So there are subsidies for animal production, not prices! And you can imagine there'll be peaks on the stock market somewhere. What a mess! [[14:16:49]] For-39
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u483	That's all support. What's the offer? Pussy, please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u484	This law must be voted on. If we don't vote, let's do it again. But I'd like to have the honorable national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u485	Sergei Anatolyevich, I've got a microphone on!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u486	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u487	Dear colleagues! Deputy Cusco, Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, this law has been in Parliament since 1999. The Government requests that MinAPC accept it for two purposes: to budget the APC next year. This is support for the price of agricultural products. Second, there's a negotiation with the S.O.T. If we do not now establish budgetary support, we can close agriculture once we enter the SOT. Therefore, I ask you, all that Ekaterina Vasuk says, other MPs - the Frosts and others - everything can be fixed in September. But now it needs to be voted on in general and in third reading to be signed. Otherwise, we will lose to our neighbours, our competitors. After entering the SOT. I'm asking you very much if we want to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-24-m0.u488	Dear colleagues, I read who the authors of this bill are. And I’m surprised that there’s a relationship in the hall. I read: Vaszczuk, Teryohin, Tsusko, Suprun, Tomic, Teeth, Jeremeyev, Yukhnovsky, Fomenko, Assadchev, Lechchenko If there's not enough time, let's put it off for a year, a review of this law! I'm voting on adoption in the third reading and in general as a bill of the Law on Support for Production and Development of the Agricultural Product Market. Registration number 3064. Please vote. [[14:18:46]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Let's put it this way: Honorable colleagues, let's take a break, after a break, then we'll probably have more logic. I will ask the bill’s authors and committee to find out what is wrong with finding a negotiated position. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. After the break, the draft Law on Support for Production and Development of the Agricultural Product Market will be considered first.
