ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please insert the cards into the sockets so that we can work. Invite the deputies to the session room. We have to go now. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:51]] They registered in the 215 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Turn on the broadcast to the street. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -100; "Regions of Ukraine" -1; Communists -0; SDPU(o) -0; "Trud Ukraine" -7; People's Agrarian Party -20; SPI -20; Block Timoshenko -19; "Union" -2; "Only Ukraine" -6; "Centre" -13; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -9; "Democratic Initiatives" -1; non-fractional -17. We're now, honourable national deputies, let's do this. In accordance with the Rules, I will make the parliamentary inquiries that have come. I am told that some cards have been illegally removed by others there. I ask then to apply for cards to those who have not received a card. And I appeal to the National Deputies to come to the Supreme Council, to enter the session room so that we can work and make responsible decisions. I call on the participants to attend the demonstrations and ask them to miss the national deputies in the session hall and to give them an opportunity to work. Please do this. And I ask the organizers of the demonstrations to also help the Supreme Council so that the national MPs have the opportunity to come to the Supreme Council and work. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let me read it now, I thought I'd read the questions, then exchange our thoughts. Three minutes, please sign in from the procedure. Please. We're about to give the order to the security commander there to conduct the National MPs. There is good agreement on the part of the shareholders so that the national MPs can come in so that there is no reason to talk about what they could not get into the session room. Let's do all of this so that the Supreme Council can work properly. We are destined to work. Yes, Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u2	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, very many deputies were unable to register because they had their cards removed. Our faction suggests that a new information be announced after the parliamentary inquiry is announced, taking into account that MPs are now receiving their cards and inserting them into the proper nest. And let's talk about the number of people in the room, including the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u3	Now I see we have 216 cards. Some MPs put them up and then they're expelled. Let's not be afraid of our heroism and work. Yes, please, Pluto.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to the MP of Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Vladimir Mihajlovich, would you please tell me if the National Deputy, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, has registered in the Hall? If he has not registered, he cannot sit in the Bureau and participate in the session. Please inform us, too, on the street. And one more thing. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like everyone to know that yesterday such a vote that did not take place when they tried to review the decision of the 27th Supreme Council took place because it was betrayed by the Communists. And there is no man in the hall today. So if Adam Martinyuk did not register, I would ask him not to take part in the session. Oily, I'm sorry, there's an Oily.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u6	I mean, dear fellows, let's not go looking for a reason for a riot in a naked place right now. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk has registered, and I am grateful that today the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council is working in the Supreme Council, and he is exercising his service authority regarding whether or not to participate in the meeting, this is the right and decision of each faction. Now let's work for the Consolidation. I'm just asking you all to do that. Yes, please, Garmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u7	Please pass the word to the National Deputy of the Crown.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u8	Joseph of Viennese, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u9	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and yet it is quite obvious that there are no factions of the regions in the room, a faction of the SDPU, a large part of the workers and communists. If you have any information on why these factions might have some kind of counseling, maybe they'll be delayed, maybe they'll be later, maybe they should meet. If you have this information, I would ask you to inform the Supreme Council about this situation, so that we can understand what's going on in the Supreme Council, because it's very clear that four factions have been coordinated in recent times, including the appearance of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u10	Yes, please, Teren, it's Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u11	Please give it to the Turk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u12	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u13	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today we have a historic day: today there will be events that will actually shape Ukraine’s destiny for the future. Today, the Supreme Council, the only legitimate body that exists today in Ukraine, must assume responsibility to send a bankrupt, criminal government out of retirement and start reforming the government of national rescue. This is very responsible, dear colleagues! And I am addressing all the deputies with dignity to address this crucial issue. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, today not only the communists, the "Regions" and the SDPU(o) were hiding and afraid to come to the hall, but the representative of SDPU(o) Schufrich, present here, I don't know how he, a deputy or former Deputy Prime Minister Kluev, who simply approaches the deputies and frightens them to get out of the hall. I ask very much whether they come out of the hall or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, let's just not threaten each other right now, not frighten each other, but let's just work quietly, inviting MPs into the session room. I want to say again: only by concerted action, only by joint efforts can we make the decisions that are necessary today for Ukraine, not for anyone, but for Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk’s replica, called him.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u15	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Unlike the former first secretary of one of the Reichs of the Party of the Žitomir district of Baranovsky, I never cheated on the party, sold it, and did not trade it with ideals. I was, I am, and I will remain a Communist. And that's my right, my right, if I live in Ukraine, which Baranovsky is said to be building with him as a democratic state, to work as I think is necessary. That's the first one. The other one. The charges against the Communists, let them look at themselves. And I'm going to say it again. Before long, history will tell us how much, under which the promises of Baranowski and his companions took place during this election campaign. I can name the people who gave and who took and what for. If Baranowski is not there, let him ask those who have taken it and why he has not shared it. And one more thing. I'd like the Supreme Council not to work under the boards. In order for what Yuri Lucenko has now stated at an open rally, that we will not release any deputies until he makes the decision we want, I suggest you write down a list of what you want, confirm this list. Let the Supreme Council sanctify the counter-revolutionary anti-constitutional coup and you'll go ahead and keep rallying. If you want democracy, respect everyone's opinion, including me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, please just register. I beg you simply, please, Nestor Ivanovich, register to receive the word. They've checked in. The trunk of the replica and then the Lucenko replica. And I'd like to ask the distinguished National MPs to work for the Consolidation. Having each one’s own principled position. Please. That's enough. Your last name hasn't been called.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's about someone who scares you. I give the word to the national deputy Shepetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u18	Sheptin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u19	Deputies! Authorized factions of the SDR(s) Vladimir Shepetin, Social Democratic Party. [[Joint]] I would like to address my constituents and those who are standing near the Supreme Council. Dear friends! We are the people of Ukraine, and if they ask me how you will vote for us or not for us, I say, "No," you mean against the people. No, friends, I'm with the people. Stop pushing MPs. To date, I haven't been able to go to the Supreme Council for 30 minutes. It's a crazy job. I ask you to unlock the Supreme Council. Those people who were with me left to work in Harikov, and here we have to work civilizedly. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! Ah, Lucenka, please. All right, well, they've been swapping lines. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies! Dear listeners! Dear Adam Ivanovich! At the rally, I really stated that the Supreme Council today is obliged to make a decision. Period. Not what I want, but what she has to accept. There's only one legitimate authority left in the country -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and you can't go to the meetings right now, Adam Ivanovich, your faction. They should be working here right now, because the country is going to break down. Don't you see what's going on? and the chapter of Ukraine? Don't you statesmen realize that only the Supreme Council can do this?Oh, my God! And one more thing. You ask what we want. I'll tell you. I want there to be freedom in Ukraine to count the votes, not the bucks, to have national MPs sitting here, not the people bought.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u22	Yes, the honourable national deputies, we exchanged lines of reply. I'm again addressing the national MPs. If possible, I ask the secretariat to retransmit this and invite all national MPs urgently, demanding to arrive at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the participants in the actions before the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be tolerant of the national MPs, to miss the national deputies in the session hall, to inspire the national deputies to work, to make their decisions. I'd like to maintain tolerance here, and now, honourable national deputies, two announcements. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the withdrawal from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich, as well as the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lvivín Anatolia Ivanovich. Yes, I'm announcing parliamentary inquiries, fellow Members of the Council, and at the same time I'd like to ask you to invite a colleague to the session room. I mean the people's deputies, the leaders of the MPs and the factions. At the same time, I would like to refrain from any action that could complicate the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on violations of the Constitution by the heads of Kharkiv, Donetsk, Luhansk district administrations and members of the district councils of these areas, attacks on the integrity and inviolability of the territory of Ukraine. [[THE COWARD, IVANOVA, ZULINSKI]] I'd like to vote in favour of the request, please. Honorable national MPs are very responsible questions. Let us respond to their acceptance in a normal manner. [[10:18:40]] For-200 Request supported. I'm voting for the request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:19:03]] For 217 This request is addressed to the President as an appeal by the Ukrainian people's deputies because we have officially not obtained the required number of votes. Mr Stanislawa NICOLAENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the Government's unsatisfactory implementation of Parliament's decisions to grant benefits to rural educators. Yuri SOLOMATAN to the prime minister, the Attorney General, for the continuation of unconstitutional actions by certain officials of the State Administration, the State Property Fund, the Ministry of Defence, the Kyiv City Government around the territory and the status of the Kyiv Military List of the name Boden. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister on the balance of food and feed resources of grain for the period 2004-2005 and food security. Jury SOLOMATAN to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the capture on 23 November 2004 of the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as supporters of the candidate for Presidentship of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. Sergey SLABENKA to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco about the material and technical provision of the Ivanichov District People's House “Prosvita” of Volin Region. Roman ZVARIĆA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence of obstructing the exercise of electoral law by the leadership of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Roman DNIPROPETROVSK, on the occasion of the repeated vote for hard-core certificates at District No. 146 of District Electoral District No. 170 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. YEUGENA JOLJAKA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence against the resident of Podgayci, on the occasion of the presidential election of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General for unlawful acts by the prosecutor of the Lysian district of Cherkas region regarding the release of an assistant prosecutor from office. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, on the violation of a criminal case against Ukrainian national deputies for anticonstitutional calls aimed at violating Ukraine’s territorial integrity and integrity. MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence against the resident of Ternopol, on the occasion of the presidential election of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. YEUGENA JOLJAKA to the Attorney General, the Central Electoral Commission, for participating in the preparation of the falsification of the election of the President of Ukraine on 21 November 2004 of the village heads and editors of the newspaper “Mironovský kraj” by issuing false papers to the heads of the rural region of Kyiv. Alexander TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, to respond to calls for an anticonstitutional violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity and to bring the guilty to criminal responsibility. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Secretary of the Council for National Security and Defence for the Threat of National Security of Ukraine, for the establishment of the foundations of totalitarianism as a result of administrative influence, for the prevention of entrepreneurial activity and for the persecution of representatives of law enforcement authorities and executive authorities on the political grounds of the electorate who support the opposition candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk. [[CARMAZIN, SCHOOL, BILOZIR]] MIKOLI POLIČUKA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence against the resident of Morshina, on the occasion of the presidential election of October 31, 2004. Roman Immortal to the Attorney General on the offence of the resident of Toula, on the basis of the repeated vote for hard-core certificates at District No. 146 of District Electoral District No. 170 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Mr. Alexander TRETIJAKOVA to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence against the resident of Dnipropetrovsk, on the basis of the repeated vote for hard-core certificates at District No. 147 of District Electoral District No. 170 on the day of the election of the President of Ukraine on October 31, 2004. Ms. SLABENKA to the Attorney General for creating obstacles to the work of the Ukrainian National MP by officials of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Mr Ribaczuk to the Attorney-General, Head of the Security Service for the organization of the falsification of the election results of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Deputy Prime Minister Andry Klaviv, some of the national deputies, the First Deputy Head of the Provincial Regional Government, the Adviser of Prime Minister Královi, the Head of the Government of the Open Shareholder Society, as well as the citizens of Levenc and Klaviv. Ms. Olgoy Volosinska, 11th class of the School of Public Education No.4, was involved in falsifications at the polling stations of the city of Woznesenska Mikolayivsk region during the election of the President of Ukraine on November 21, 2004. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Minister of Transport and in connection with the unjustified release from work of the head of the Eupatoria Seaport. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Minister of Defense for Housing in Cherkasi. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the need for an adequate response to the intervention of Moscow’s mayor Yuri Luzkova in Ukraine’s internal affairs. Jury CARMAZIN to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the Chief Audit and Audit Authority on the cessation of the administrative influence of officials of the executive branch and the law enforcement authorities of the Sums region on the financial and economic activities of agricultural producers for the purpose of monopolization in the regional market. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the robbery of the family of a member of the Special Audit Committee of the Regional Representation in the Donetsk Region of the Coordinating Coalition “Power of the People” of the election campaign V.Jushchenka, the head of the Donetsk district organization “Parties of the Protectors of India” Prilepski. Stepan Bulba to the Minister of Health on the need to take urgent measures to restore the functioning of the district hospital in the village of Yellow Reschitil district of Poltava. THE prosecutor - general of Ukraine, Labediv, on the offence of a member of the DVC, number 70 of the district constituency number 323 of Shevchenkov district of Kyiv in connection with his criminal acts on 21 November 2004, after handing over to voters the ballot papers in which his signature had disappeared. The People's Deputy of Lebedivsk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to the parliamentary request from the 6th of October this year regarding the lack of proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers for the creation of non-receivable sources of return to citizens of monetary savings and the payment of state-owned securities. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure of Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco Minister and Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ban the Supreme Court of Ukraine from officially publishing the results of the election of the President of Ukraine. The parliamentary requests that have come are all made. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the complex political processes, we have to say, honourable colleagues, that today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich and Mazurenka Vladimir Ivanovich. Let's welcome them and wish them well. And Mazurenko is now 50 years old and 55 years old Karpov Alexander Mikolaiovich. It's people's Jubilee. Ladies and gentlemen, this is December 1st. As you will recall, on December 1st, there was a 91st referendum in which the Ukrainian people expressed themselves for having an independent assembly of Ukraine. And on that day, we chose the President of Ukraine. And I think given this date, we're also going to do a good job with this process in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have 226 national deputies. To get started and, of course, to make decisions, we need a lot more national MPs. So let's talk about what we're doing right now. So, I'm asking the people's deputies: let's write down now and exchange thoughts for about 15 minutes. Three minutes, please. Sign up. Please log in. I want to say again, I'm fine with losing a card or not. Please form a card. I understand what they've done, but there's a procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u23	I don't have it. Everything I've got, I've announced. Please! Please! Please sign up. Yes, they are. Give me 15 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs. Mikola Joulinsky, please. I would like to announce once again: Honorable National MPs, come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we need to work. Yes, Giulinsky Mikola Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u24	Yes, Giulinsky Mikola Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. If there's Boris Oilynik, I'd like to give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u25	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u26	Oh, he is! Then one minute, then I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give the word to Sergey Shevchuk for a statement, he wants to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u27	And then Boris Illrich Oily. All right, we got a deal. Oh, Boris Illich has the same word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! A few days ago a large delegation of parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland was in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and extended the response of the Polish Republic to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me read this response, I think it's quite symbolic that it was December 1st that our colleagues, the parliamentarians of the neighboring friendly state, made such a response. "From the Polish Seima to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On October 22, 2004, the Polish Seym of the Presidential Elections in Ukraine appealed to the Ukrainian authorities that all the democratic standards that Ukraine had observed in the elections had been respected in the past. Information on the second round of presidential elections coming from Ukraine, including from international observers of the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, raises reasonable doubts that many abuses and even ordinary falsifications have been committed. We believe that Ukrainian citizens want to live in an independent, democratic and honest state. Ukraine needs Europe and the world. Dear colleagues, parliamentarians of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly given evidence of the integrity of democracy and denied attempts to limit it. Today you are viewed with the hope of millions of Ukrainians and the whole free democratic world. The citizens of Ukraine have chosen you to protect their rights. History knows such moments, first of all, we Polish people know when the fate of the people is resolved, and this is the moment that has come. The Polish Seima hopes that the final outcome of the presidential election will reflect the real will of the Ukrainian people. Do whatever you can to make the truth, freedom and democracy win. This response was signed by representatives of a number of parliamentary factions and groups in the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, including factions such as “Right and Justice”, the Polish Social Democracy, the Union of the Democratic Left and supported by other parliamentary clubs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u29	Boris Ilchi Olinik, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u30	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues. I am. I have nothing to say about what I was and remain a Communist, without taking my blame, I want to disavow yesterday's vote, made blindly, and add my voice to the first project. If someone hasn't found out in a hurry, they haven't found out the difference between the projects, make a conclusion, my dear colleagues. [[Congrats]] Only the Supreme Council can find the best way out of today’s very troubled situation. It should ensure society from being led to a boiling point with unforeseeable consequences. For nothing, even the position of an anointed one is worthy of the smallest cleft in the monolith of the state. As you and I are in a bunch with today's and coming presidents, variable values, Ukraine's magnitude is constant and inevitable. Let us landly bow down to the people on both shores of Dniper, who have literally turned our eyes on the transfiguration of the people into a nation. And the tragedy of the ruling mistrust is that it did not see this grand transfiguration. Let everyone and everyone who stands not only and not as many defenders on Kiev and Ukraine’s territory stand up for their true human and national dignity. And we need to do everything we can to satisfy his thirst for freedom, subjugate the nation's energy from the big people in the street under the top legislative authority. Let's just get as few counselors as we can, where they wouldn't jump into ours. [[N o M e s s a ……]] From Washington, Moscow, or the same Europe, especially those who have caused a bloodbath in Serbia in our eyes. The ashes of innocently killed on the banks of the Danube are beating into our hearts. Let us finally live with our minds, listen primarily to our people, whose true power has never been conquered. Those who seek to break the constituency of the people or to segment the territory of their homeland and their Fatherland commit the most disgraceful betrayal of their homeland. And that's unforgivable for all moral, national and international legal standards. You don't have to play with the people. He can see from under the eyebrows. And that you're squirming yourself and who you really are. You can't take the people out, they can tell the difference between the rank and the rank.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u31	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u32	You can't take the people to their homes. They can tell the difference between rank and rank. And who is his son by spirit, and who is by spirit a son of a bitch? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u33	Yes, dear colleagues, calmly, calmly, please, Nestor Shufric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u34	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for speaking to Shepetin from the rostrum, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u35	Please, Shepetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable deputies in the hall, respected people on the street! I want to invite you on behalf of myself and our faction and the people who voted for you and for us for reason and calm. Do you think, dear friends, that if today we have people standing around our Council on the street saying that if we vote differently, we are going to disagree with the people's opinion and they will not leave until we vote on their opinion, which is expressed by the street or three people who are standing on the bleachers. Why don't you think that exactly in 20 days in other cities, people who think otherwise won't be able to say the same thing. And then even if we win here today, how we're going to solve issues with people who have a different opinion. Why are my dear friends coming to me today? O dear friends, why do you speak of the bandits, why do you speak good words first, and then say, "As long as you are not hurt, then it will be." Let us assume that no one in the country can be accused of being a bandit while there is no court decision. Let's get out of the way, if you see it on the street, then I'll remind you of Jaroslav's difficult moment when he wrote to Ulyanov "Killing thieves and prostitutes at the scene of detention without trial and investigation," let's start in Ukraine the same. [[Lenin]] Dear friends! To date, we have the Supreme Council, the deputies elected by the people, the deputies have their opinions and no one has the right to decide. On Monday, I spent all day in Harkov, I met people who represent more than 200,000 people in our city, they called on me and asked me to convey to my respected colleagues to exercise restraint, to show respect for the opinions of others, to show respect for the law, to make an honest choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u37	That's right. You say, give it up for your friends, you say good words. You say you're people, you're Rodin, you're heroes, but the same heroes think otherwise, they're entitled to it. And we, MPs, those heroes who think otherwise, speak to them and the people will not win.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u38	Michael Glady, please. Oh, Hirschfeld, please. No, the last name wasn't called, let's be calm, calm, calm. Yes, Gladys, prepare Bokom. People's deputies will be invited to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u39	Honourable national MPs, a respected Ukrainian community, the situation in the state is too critical, it is below the critical point, and who, rather than the Ukrainian national deputies, who show the will of the Ukrainian people who elected us to the Supreme Council, today have no words or epithets to invite those deputies to the hall, and to vote on the decisions they have made today. Otherwise, dear friends, history will throw us on the sidelines. I ask and beg those MPs who are not here to register and vote today on the will of our Ukrainian people. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to give the word to Sith Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u40	Reverend Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine, the Carpathian law enforcement officers detained about 30 bandits who opposed the U.S. militia at the local Avangard Stadium. According to law enforcement officials, the ex-gangs were led by an ex-governor of the land of John Rizak, deputy of the Mukatsov Paradise Volodymyr Paulo, better known in criminal circles by the name of Chali. It was predicted that the Chalogo Brigade would attack peaceful demonstrators who protested against the falsifications of the election of the President of Ukraine and demanded that Victor Yushchenk be recognized by the President of Ukraine. The U.S. Attorneys blocked the bandits. The latter, however, resisted the use of firearms. Among the detainees, among other things, a person was found bearing witness to Interpol’s coworker, who was involved in the beating of the national deputy Yuri Orobec in the village of Grušovo Tajovsky district on election night. Immediately after the incident, the Office for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zakarpatsky area declared its support to the Ukrainian people. So far, all the criminals under the direction of the Zacarpathian District Police have been released from custody, and UBZ employees have been disarmed. Please take appropriate steps to violate the law of law by the district attorney of Lemach and the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Zakarpat district. At the same time, we ask for the protection of fellow workers of the Zacarpathian Police Department in the fight against organized crime, who have done their duty to our people honestly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u41	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u42	Honorable National Deputies, reputable Ukrainian people. The Socialist Party of Ukraine, as the first left state power of our young Ukrainian State, has always been, remains and will be with its people. This is what we are talking about today when such responsible events take place in Ukraine. And we're staying with people, we're staying with those people who are protesting on Kiev's playgrounds, on the cities and villages of Ukraine protesting against the current regime, protesting the march of the bush, against the denial of their right to choose who they want to be president. The great responsibility of the Ukrainian Parliament to preserve the stable situation in Ukraine. But as we can see, part of our hall doesn't want that. And if the people are sometimes called the Supreme Council of Betrayal, of supreme treachery, it is the fault of these forces that are not present today and who do not want to participate in the normalization of the situation in Ukraine. I want to turn to two other responsible institutions that are fully responsible for what is happening today in Ukraine. I am addressing the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, and the acting Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic. Stop hiding in the woods. In the end, show that you are men, not just some basic cowards who are afraid to appear before their own people. You're waiting for the Independence Course, you're waiting for the Ukrainian people who came to this site. And you must come to this people and say the word of truth, repent to this people and walk away in peace. Do not think that there is a possible repetition of the Romanian version in Ukraine. There will be no Romanian option in Ukraine. For the people, not the streets, are the crowds. And we are the people responsible, we are the people who know how to punish and forgive. But only those who bow their heads toward him are forgiven. And one more request. Please don’t let go of the schizophrenic or schizophrenic people who talk about some oranges with drugs. You realize that no one believes in sick people, but no one has ever been poisoned by these oranges in Kiev. And if you poison it, you'll poison it with such talk. And know that in this way you are discrediting yourself, not our people. And the last. A group of MPs, including Communist Oilnik, defenders Stepan Cloud, Leukko Lukyanenko, socialists Spodarenko and I, representatives of Our Ukraine, have filed an act to overcome the crisis in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u43	Yes, give me 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u44	In this act we foresee briefly: the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the declaration of the formation of the Cabinet of People’s Trust, and the appointment of the Supreme Council to the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council to submit to the approval of the Supreme Council of the new Prime Minister and the new composition of the government without delay. Why an act? Because an act is higher than a law and higher than a decree. I think in this way the Supreme Council could overcome the crisis in Parliament itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. There's such an offer now, please! In order for us to comply with all the regulations and now there is a requirement for two factions to declare a recess. Let's get the leaders. One minute, listen. The leaders of the MPs and factions, please gather in the Head's office now so that we can agree on a way of voting and on what issues. We must choose perhaps the most plausible questions for the Supreme Council to be defined. During this time, I ask all the deputies to be in the session room. I invite the deputies to the session room, and at 11 o'clock, we'll start looking at the matter essentially, that is, the decision-making process. No objections? FROM THE PLACE. I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u46	So I'm inviting only the heads of MPs and factions to the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, the National Deputies to be in the Sessional Hall, the National Deputies, who are now on the street, to go into the session hall, to attend the rally and to miss the people in the session hall. And the last. At the request of the Plástinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich National Deputy, I hereby declare his withdrawal from the Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to come into the session room, please register with the National Deputies. As long as the MPs come in, I'll make an announcement. In accordance with the Rules, I hereby announce the withdrawal from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, I also claim, in accordance with the Rules, to resign from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Dubitsky. [[Applause]] Yes, invite the national deputies to the session room, and we will now proceed to the consideration of the matter in substance. I ask the initiators to brief them on the reasons why they asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to call a recess. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow countrymen! We have no right today not to know that at least two offices, central party offices in Ukraine, in Kiev, were blocked in the morning. Today, we do not have the right not to know that during our visit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a car in which Ukrainian national deputies were driving was put on the sidelines, and only the intervention of the police escaped. gave us the opportunity to avoid tragedy. Today, you can only come to the Supreme Hall of Ukraine if you are wearing orange clothes. But, but! I do not condemn those today who, wearing orange clothes, still remember how Victor Fedorovich was greeted yesterday with a victory. This victory took place and it happened, I'm sure. That's how it's gonna be. Today I want to say that the faction leaders, concerned about the health of their national deputies, have turned to "Our Ukrainians" to ensure that they can work peacefully. But I want to address those who are standing around the Supreme Council right now. Respectable fellow countrymen. We respect your choice, and we respect that you're defending your candidate's interests, not all of us do it for money. Even those who do it for money cannot help but recognize the length of their work. But 15 million people who have made a different choice are also our citizens. We cannot fail to respect their choice. They made it. And the fact that they are not in Kiev today is only out of desire to keep the public calm and avoid provocation. Today I'm approached by national deputies from "Our Ukraine" and they say if I don't change my position, I won't be released from the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll be honest with you. I've been walking in the driveway all week. And today I will leave the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine through my first approach. And today, I have nothing to be ashamed of, like all those who support our position in supporting the 15 million who have made their choice. These are our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u49	Dear national MPs, one minute. People's deputies please come into the session room. You'll have to write it down for three minutes. Now we're going to move on to the substantive consideration of the issue. Please. Yes, Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u50	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! First of all, I would like to explain to the previous provoker that no MP is stopping at the streets of Kiev to carry out his civic duty and to attend the session of the Supreme Council. And Mr. Yanukovich’s followers are not because of their 15 million but because they all appeared through strong letters and did not really exist. That's why they're virtually there, but they're not physically present. Now the main thing is why I took the word. Dear friends! If I'm heard by my fellow national MPs who are afraid for some reason to go to the Supreme Council, I'll be out in the street right now and I'll make a 3-meter empty corridor to the 5th drive from Sadowa Street or from the streets of Szovkovicka to the 5th drive, I'll be able to walk in completely peacefully without seeing people on the side. Our guests from the European Union, Poland, and Latvia will also visit. This will be done in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u51	Yuri Orobec, please. And then I'll ask the action organizers to confirm the assurance you made during the Conciliation Council meeting that there is and will be a free entry and exit to the Supreme Council for all national MPs that there will be no blockades on this matter. Yes, please, Yuri Orobec is a microphone. To whom does the word pass?
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u52	Please pass the word "Prashenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u53	Peter Porcelain. Please officially make this position public. People's deputies please come into the session room. Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! Dear representatives of the media! The citizens of Ukraine who are before the Supreme Council today! And in all the areas of Ukraine that demand truth and justice. I would like to point out that the history of the world did not know such mass action that millions of citizens would participate at the same time, in an area with such clear orderliness, no case, no violence, no threat, we don't see for 11 days -- it's a clear difference. The actions that are being carried out now, which require the truth from any other stock. I am addressing the national MPs who are hearing, we assure you, Your Honor Valeriy Pavlovich, it is I alone would like to address the representatives of the NDP faction, I confirm the words of Yuri Lucenka, that there will now be a passage, a passage to the delegation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u55	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u56	In order for the delegation of the European Union, the delegation of the President of Poland-Kwasniewski, President of Latvia-Adamkus, Lithuania, I apologize that they should necessarily come to the Supreme Council, and we have full responsibility for keeping the peace, I believe that the national MPs should carry out their duties. I would also like to point out that 15 million people who have been stressed are not 15 million votes, that's 15 million, share.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u58	They just won't make it here, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u59	Yes, thank you, microphone. Dear National Deputies! It's from the second opera. Dear colleagues! I want to confirm once again that during the meetings of the Conciliation Council, we have agreed, and I am responsible for the time spent, and I am responsible for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that the deputies of Ukraine have the opportunity to enter the Supreme Council and work, to leave the Supreme Council when necessary. So I would also ask the organizers of the stock, and I would ask the participants of these shares to support me at this time as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure the efficiency of the work of the Supreme Council, to allow the Supreme Council to work more precisely. Yes. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u60	Please, I took the time of Semenyuk the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u61	Semenyuk, word, please pass to Frost. It's a cold word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u62	Alexander Frost, well, calm down, please. Return Nestor Ivanovich's card, please, for she, naked, will not take part in the vote, return it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u63	Dear friends, on behalf of the rally, I was preparing a letter to the Russian public and representatives of the Russian public approached President Putin of Russia. I'm going to start and finish this letter by reading everything, so I'm going to bet on it at the time. I think he's been assigned to the show. Dear Vladimir Vladimirovich! The leadership of the Russian State should respect the choice of the Ukrainian people. There is no lie big or small. Any lie is equally repugnant and its consequences are just as terrible. Stop hanging labels, stop pushing anti-Ukrainian hysteria. We must bear in mind that a policy based on lies and falsification is sooner or later a failure, and this applies not only to Ukraine but also to Russia. It is time to start respecting the Russian people, signed by: Nemtsov, Alexeev, Kasparov, Kiselev, Sisuev, Yakovlev, Satarov; journalists: Nadezhdin, Shendrović, Golz, Kara Murza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u64	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, during the Conciliation Council, it was proposed that the MPs decide by secret ballot on the proposed draft Ukrainian decree. To do that, we need to change the procedure, so now I ask you to prepare yourself, how much time does it take for the secretariat to put a motion on the vote now so that the MPs can vote in secret in order to make decisions in secret about the draft decision? What? I asked the secretariat to do the right thing right now, and we're going to vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please take your seats. I'm betting on the vote, please take the cards. Who's in favour of withdrawing from the Rules and voting on draft Decree 6375-D is to vote in secret? Please vote. And then you're going to go on and on and on and on and on and on. Please vote. Here comes the vote. Please. [[11:58:17]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Well, I get it. "Our Ukraine" -100; "Ukrainian Regions" -0; Communists -1; SDPU -2; "Urban Ukraine" -8; People's Agriculture -20; SPU -20; Block Timoshenko -19; "Union" -1; "Only Ukraine" -9; "Centre" -12; NDP, industrialists and entrepreneurs -8; "Democratic Initiatives" - 1; non-fractional -22. For reasons of three minutes, please. Please give me the name of the national MPs. Kostinuk Bogdan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u66	Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the procedural decision that we are now making is extremely important. If you go out of the logic that some MPs have just announced here, which represent a parliamentary-government coalition that is virtually nonexistent, or at least has no moral right to call itself a government. Then we must make a decision that will ensure the absolute free will of the Ukrainian people's deputies, something that will make it impossible to pressure the Ukrainian people's deputies. The only way to do this is to allow the people's deputies to vote in secret. That's why I'm making a proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, also taking into account that not all the cards did work out, as stated by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Once again, this procedural vote will take place. And yet, so that we can make a decision on this issue, which is an extremely important decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u68	Karnauh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you have instructed the workers of the apparatus to prepare this for a secret ballot. However, the board made it clear that the roll-call vote was a nominee. I propose that we vote in secret in order to vote in secret. This is the norm of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u70	Please, Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u71	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party Please pass the word to the head of the Ukrainian Republican Party of Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u72	Matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u73	Yulia Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. There are indeed observations and statements that not everyone has understood what we are voting for. Therefore, the request to vote. And the second. Dear colleagues, those who support us today, unfortunately too much, the regime that destroys Ukraine and leads us to such a state. I am addressing you, let's build up courage, let's understand that we are not responsible in front of Yanukovic, but in front of Ukraine. Those who cannot move away from Yanukovich, I appeal to you, vote in favour of a secret regime and allow for the vote of those who are so afraid of you today. Release the men. It will be your mission, and then take and go, and declare your love for Yanukovich. Dear friends, fellow workers, let us recognize the responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u74	Please, Mihaylo Alexiyovich. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I believe that a secret vote is we're hiding behind someone's back. You show your position and vote openly. I think today, given today's situation, social, political, it's just not serious. And I will vote against it in secret. This is my position.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u76	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Now let's go on. Nevertheless, we will follow a regular course. I'm asking the MPs to sit everyone in their seats so they don't say they didn't hear anything, they don't understand anything. I'm coming again, I'm asking for your attention! Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please turn off all your cell phones, let's work. Time's up, too bad. What? Calm down, I want everything to be in accordance with the Rules. Once again, I ask the people's deputies to take their seats! I will now put once again to the vote to go back to considering the proposal for a secret voting regime. If that's not the case, then we'll vote in open mode. Once again, I want you not to say that you don't understand: invite the deputies to the session room to make all the informed decisions. Well, Peter Alexiovich, national deputies, let's vote. What are you guys up to? I'm voting on a motion to return to the proposal for a secret ballot. Please vote. [[12:03:24]] For 229 Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! Now there's a motion for a vote: who's in favour of voting under Decree 6375-d in secret, please vote. [[12:04:35]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. May I have your attention, please? I'm going to ask you again. I'm going to ask you to take your seats. Take your seats, don't agitate each other. It's too late. I am voting on the proposal to return to the question of holding a secret ballot. 229 national deputies supported this. Now we have to vote, actually, in favour of deciding whether to vote in secret. So I'm going to make this decision, and I'm asking you to understand, there will be no more voting. I'll bet. Well, please, well, there's a rally going on, but they don't want to hear anything. What's the matter? It is up to the vote to propose that draft regulation 6375-d be considered in secret. Please vote. [[12:06:04]] For 229 Now, ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? This is the order for consideration of the decree. Please calm down. I'll do it again. Dear colleagues, please sit down and vote now. I'll put every paragraph to the vote. Those paragraphs, which will take the necessary number of votes, will make the decision. We can't vote on a basis right now, we can't vote in general, because there are options. And the points that will find the support they need will form a decision that will be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is no objection to such a question? Now, if you'll have your attention. Calm down, please. It's about voting on the first paragraph of Decree 6375-d, and I'm reading, "Acknowledgment that there are no socio-economic and political preconditions in Ukraine for changing the state system. Separatist acts have an artificial character and are motivated by the desire of individuals and political forces to satisfy their wrong corporate and political interests. At the same time, the political, socio-economic situation that has taken place in the country since 21 November 2004 is rapidly becoming unconcerned and threatening the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. I'm betting on a vote to adopt this paragraph as a whole. Please vote. [[12:07:51]] For 232 Point taken. Yes, we continue to work calmly. I'm voting on paragraph 2. I'll read it. It is determined to condemn any decisions taken by executive authorities and local self-government authorities since 21 November 2004 and contravene the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the separatism shown by individual government officials, the heads of local executives and local self-government bodies. as well as other persons, promoting in any way such an expression by foreign nationals who pose a threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State. Yes, please vote for acceptance as a whole. [[12:08:51]] For 234 Second paragraph accepted. Since the second paragraph was adopted, the second paragraph was not voted on. Now, paragraph 3, please. The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is immediately required to give a legal assessment of the decision taken after 21 November 2004 by the executive authorities and local authorities, as well as the actions of their officials, and to take measures of prosecutorial response with a view to bringing the said decisions into conformity with and legislation of Ukraine. To recommend to the President of Ukraine, taking into account the legal assessment of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, that the matter be resolved with regard to the involvement of the designated officials. I would like to vote on the adoption of this paragraph as a whole. Please vote. [[12:09:58]] For 227 Decision taken. Yes, the honourable people's deputies are voting on paragraph 4. I'll read it. "The Ukrainian Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service are immediately required to give a legal assessment of the actions of individuals aimed at violating Ukraine's territorial integrity and for legal reasons to decide on the issue of bringing them to justice." I would like to vote on the adoption of this paragraph as a whole. [[12:10:58]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Since paragraph 4 was adopted, the alternatives to paragraphs 4, paragraphs 3 and 4 were not voted on. They're out. Item 5. I'll read it. To propose to the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of national sovereignty, territorial integrity of Ukraine, respect for the Constitution of Ukraine, human rights and freedoms and citizens, to urgently take the necessary non-violent constitutional measures aimed at stabilising the situation in the country. If there is no objection, I am voting on this item as a whole. [[12:11:48]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, paragraph 6. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to delegate the people's deputies of Ukraine by consent as full representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the appropriate administrative and territorial units for the direct clarification of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to make proposals for further urgent action with a view to stabilizing the situation in the country. If there is no objection, I shall put to the vote the whole paragraph. [[12:12:32]] For 234 Decision taken. Now let's move on to paragraph 7. Cancel the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 March 2004 on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action, consistency and effectiveness, responsibility, in accordance with article 87 and part 4 of article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to express distrust of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, resulting in the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I put it to the vote, paragraph 7, and I read it. [[12:13:28]] For 222 Next, paragraph 8, honorary colleagues from the procedure, please sign in for three minutes. Please sign up. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u78	Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, during the Conciliation Council, many factions made proposals, since paragraphs 7 and 8 of the interlinked resignation of the government and the formation of the government suggested that the paragraphs should be taken simultaneously to vote on the resignation and formation of the new government, for that is the reason that part of the deputies do not vote. So we suggest that we put together 7 points and the first 8 paragraphs at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u80	Yes, Nestor Schufrich, please. Yes, indeed, yesterday was such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u81	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, we are today making claims about illegal unconstitutional actions to the leaders of local self-government. What are we doing today? Today, we are breaking the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Today we cannot fail to recognize that there are two ships in Ukraine; we cannot fail to respect their team and their captains. Today we are the dawns of what I say in Russian: rats swim from one ship to another, but I want to say that rats will never even become sailors. So I'm asking you to show your respect. We need to make a deal. We need to make a compromise. Today, we are destined to have the only independent Ukraine, and we must respect the Constitution and the peoples of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u82	Yes. Please, Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Gladys Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, I would like to confirm Mr. Pinzenic's statement that yesterday at the conciliatory meeting, a decision was practically made by 200 votes to put the matter to rest in a package: the resignation of the Government and the formation of the Government of National Trust, therefore. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think that's how he needs to be put to the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u85	Please, Malinowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u86	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you first of all. We've voted with you that the areas in the regions were violations of the Laws and the Constitution, we've even made decisions about admission to criminal responsibility of managers, but all of these teams were from the top, from the Cabinet of Ministers, so logically we should vote immediately for the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, so please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u87	Yes, I now invite the secretary who provides us with the voting regime, the manager, to come up here and explain how the secret voting regime works, please, let's go over here and then we'll figure it out. Yes, Secretariat, let's quickly secure here. Who's in there? Teren, please, Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u88	Please give it to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u89	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I am addressing MPs who have the dignity to represent the people today, the people who have been tried to rape during the last presidential election. Dear friends, this is a dangerous situation in Ukraine. I'm talking to those who didn't dare press the government's resignation button. Today, Ukraine’s insolence. When the Supreme Council does not form a government of national trust, there is a danger of deepening the socio-economic crisis that can become irreversible. I address you, dear friends, to form a government of national trust. We're going to save Ukraine - it's our responsibility with you! I'm asking you to back it up and make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u91	Please give the information to the people’s deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u92	An open-ended vote is a secret mode. So only the total number of "yes", "against", "resisted".
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u93	Tell them to hear again, 'cause they're starting to storm the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u94	I'll say it again. In open voting mode, that is to say, the system calculates the total number that voted "for", "against", "resisted" and "didn't vote" is the total number. Who, as voted, doesn't question this system.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u95	Thank you. Please mobilize the National MPs. Time's up. Time is running out of motives. Time's up, the record's just finished. I say again, time's up, we should have come to the session room earlier. Yes, please sit down and give up the rally. In fact, on the Conciliation Council, we put two points together, and they still go evenly. So now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal that was discussed on the Conciliation Council of Ukraine to vote together on two paragraphs. If you support this, then the next vote will essentially be on these points. May I have your attention, please? Let's take a look at this. Thus, the distinguished national MPs. A motion is made to vote on paragraph 7 and paragraph 8 together. As agreed on at the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:20:31]] For 227 Now, if you'll have your attention. I'm going to read these two points. For reasons, please write this down. Three minutes. One minute, we need to hold on to the Rules. Please sign up. Three minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Bondarenko, please, then Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u96	Dear friends. Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine." Today, there are people in this room who care about the fate of Ukraine. And you can see that solving problems is not easy. The problems that have arisen today are both on the street and on the square of Kiev. And to say that there are also 15 million people around, you have to take into account that today it's clearly proven that there are not 15 million people there, there are 15 million ballot papers that have been put into urns by illegal methods. And that's why we have to take that into account. I would ask that what is needed today is a government of national trust, a government that people trust, be trusted by politicians. And if you and I are about to reform the government, there will be decent people. And Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin today is truly a politician who deserves to be led temporarily. This will be a decision for Ukraine, for all of us. I ask you to support this decision. I'm asking these two, three people who doubt to find strength in themselves and do it for the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u97	Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u98	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask a few of you to really calm down again. And to understand that yes, there are purely political issues that are being addressed today. But behind this policy are specific living people -- pensioners, our workers, those who today are with the Marchans -- those who are standing at the ovens today. Life hasn't stopped today, life is flowing. What do we have? Stores are leaking, prices are rising catastrophicly, markets are starting to collapse today, panic. This process needs to be stopped. Any decision can be taken in euphoria. The only body I have to stress today must and must perform its functions properly, the Government is the Supreme Council. This process, this is a difficult process, so making rash decisions, making thoughtless moves, I think it's premature today, because each one of us has a particular family, specific people behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u99	Singer, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u100	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'd like to draw the attention of all my colleagues to the fact that this government, and here even to raise the question today, it doesn't work anymore, it doesn't run anymore. That is why I believe that we have made the right decision and that today we need to speed up the process of forming a government of national trust, including those professionals that we trust and who still hold the situation in hand today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u101	Boris Olinick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u102	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you! Let's not beat the pace, let's vote normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-12-01-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm going to read the paragraph that we're going to vote on, paragraph seven and eight, please note, this is going to be one point. No, we voted in favour, and now I'm going to read these paragraphs so that you can determine your position: cancel the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 March 2004 on the approval of the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "Coherence. Effectiveness. Responsibility." In accordance with article 87 and part four of article 115 of the Constitution, Ukraine should express its mistrust to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which resulted in the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To invite the President of Ukraine, with the participation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to form a personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a government of national trust, taking into account the proposals of the deputy factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This paragraph shall be put to the vote. [[12:25:26]] For 229 May I have your attention, please? Yes, have a seat, please. Yes, calm down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Since these paragraphs are voted on, option one, paragraph 7-8, option two, paragraphs 7-8 is deleted. Yes, next, paragraph 9, please pay attention. The ninth paragraph, in accordance with article 25 of article 85 and article 122 of the Constitution, of the Ukrainian Constitution, is to express mistrust to the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is the result of his resignation from office. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[12:26:41]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The vote is based on paragraph 9, which reads: “Conceal the unsatisfactory work of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and ensure the legality of the activities of public authorities and local authorities, their officials and officials.” I'd like to make a statement. [[12:27:15]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Item 10. Invite political actors to avoid the use of force and blocking the offices of the Ministers of Ukraine, other federal executives and the National Bank of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote for 10 points. Please vote. Let's vote, dear fellows, come on, come on! I ask you to demonstrate your will. Vote, please. [[12:27:48]] For 226 Decision taken. Announcing 11 points. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the immediate publication of this decree. This paragraph 11 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:28:16]] For 236 Decision taken. Now 12 points. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. I'll put it to the vote. Please vote. [[12:28:41]] For 234 Now, pay attention. To -234. Adopted We voted on the paragraphs. Those points that remain, we now have to vote in general. May I have your attention, please? It is up to the vote for adoption as a whole as a decision on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 6375-D "On the stabilisation of the political and socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the prevention of anti-constitutional acts and separatists that threaten Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity". Yes, there is a general vote in favour of the draft as a ruling. [[12:29:31]] For 228 Decision adopted [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Calm down! Let's keep working. Have a seat, please. What are some suggestions? Is it possible to exchange ideas from factions or quit? I propose now, Your Honor, to make statements from the factions and then close the meetings. Or not. In order to make statements against the factions, I ask the members of the people to vote. [[12:30:38]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. Evening meeting. The time for the evening session is set for you to be able to work in parliamentary groups and factions. Oh, we're on Wednesday today, so we don't have any more. Tomorrow at nine o'clock, the Conciliation Council of MPs and factions. Ten o'clock on the schedule for Thursday.
