ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:14]] A total of 374 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Mary MARKUS to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the appeal of Orthodox Christians in the province of Zacarpathia concerning the alternative registration of tax payers and non-execution by the National Tax Administration of the Law of Ukraine “To amend the Law of Ukraine on the National Register of Individuals – Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the misconduct of the head of the Malovsky district government of the Kirovograd district of Shulga. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to requests for regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 509, 510 of 19 April 2004 concerning the allocation of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the implementation of investment projects and the implementation of measures to prevent accidents and technological disasters in the housing and utility sector and other emergency municipal property objects in 2004. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the construction of the Infectious and Neurological Department of the Hornostiv District Hospital of the Hersonian Region. Julius TIMOSHENKO to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the definition of the status of the Boyar department of the Kyiv military training complex as a training facility with a general secondary education cycle. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zakarpat district government administration for the construction and fortification of a dam on the Tis River in the city of Tachiv Zakarpatsk district. Ms. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' legislation on pension insurance. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Lypna district hospital in the province of Lyubar. Oleg ZARUBINSKI to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation around the Winnicki factory “Kristal”. Ms. SLABENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for support of the request of the Volin District Council deputies for the observance of freedom of expression in Ukraine. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of comprehensive information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the State Committee on the problems of the Chernobyl disaster of Ukraine. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dealing with the problems of participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Viacheslav KYRILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the face of dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request for directions for the use of two million seven hundred thousand dollars allocated by the Government to finance the EP. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment of land rations to residents of the village of Demianci Przejaslav-Hmělnicky region of the Kyiv region. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conservation of art in the city of Irpin Kyiv. Sergey SLABENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of arrears on salary in the open stock company “Osnastska” of Novovolinsk Volinsk Region. Ivan YVANCHO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to complete the construction of a protective dam in a village of the city-type Grand Bull of Zakarpatsk district. Stéphane HMARA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal of violations of the current legislation of Ukraine and for the granting to persons evicted from the territory of the USSR, which in 1951 went to Poland, of the status of participants in the war, such as that after 9 September 1944 they were relocated to the territory of other countries. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of property rights and the non-refoulement of forced evictions from the apartments of former workers of the agricultural enterprise “Ukraine” in the village of Shevchenkov of the district of Odessa. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of debt from wages in the Chernjevic region. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the sugar industry, particularly in the Kaputsian sugar plant on Winnickin. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine on the negative consequences of the change in train schedule No.55 Hmelnicki-Moscow and No.601 Kyiv-Hmelnicki, which are heading towards the Winnicki and Hmelnicki region. [[CAMERINCHUK, SANDRA, SKOMAROVSKI, DYRNIK]] Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the renovation of the Culture House in the village of Gremac Novgorod-Siverskie district of Chernigiv. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of State inspectors from seed and planting due to the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to execute the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Seed and Garden Material Act. Vassila NADRAGA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on a subsidy from the State Budget for compensation payments for the provision of electricity in Lugansk. Anatolysa RACHAN to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, regarding the increase in funding for the drilling of artesian wells in 2004. Vadima GUROVA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, regarding the restoration of the mining of iron ore on the “Przechoroveneva” mine in Krivy Rig. Anatolia PALIGARY to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitry Tobacco on the issue of financing the Children's Preschool No.39 mine “Olchowatska” in the city of Jenakiyev. Anatolia Rachánské to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitr Tobacco about the transfer of the former “Zroczka” sanatorium to the municipal property of the city of Eupatoria. Anatolia Domanskih to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of the heads of private enterprises “Agroland”, “ Veles” and “Brest” of the Dnipropetrovsk region. MICILI REDOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of Chernigova and the illegal actions of officials. VITALIA ŠIBKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of measures by the prosecutor of the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska for the protection of the rights of citizens of Bezludno and Kostenko. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for pressure to investigate and trial by the prosecutor of the city of Kyiv Mitlowa. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the illegal acquisition by the Chimreserve stockholders of the entire property complex of the Open Shareholder Society of the Kyiv Research Institute of Sinteko. MICILI RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of Population from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the First Vice - Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the occasion of the accident on the cleaning facilities of the city of Chernigova. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminal activity of coworkers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Zaporozhye. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the verification of the legality of the privatization of the closed shareholding company “Gluchovecko kaolin factory” of the Winnitsky region. [[Drought, OSICA, and others]] Vasil ZUSKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on violations of current legislation during the privatisation of the Odes civil society of the Odes civil engineering plant “Red Guardia” and the protection of state property and the legal rights of factory workers. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delaying a criminal case on the basis of the electoral documents and the false announcement of the results of the elections of the Mukatov City Head in District No.13. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to execute a court order to pay off the arrears of former employees of the private agricultural enterprise Althea and to eliminate Althea from paying the debt. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the enforcement of the current legislation of Ukraine in the conduct of a mass blockade by private cottages in the territory of the former pioneer camp “Sputnik” in the green zone of the city of Chernigów – “Jalovščina”. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the abuse of the leadership of the Killian District Council of Bodelan, the Killian District State Administration of Pojarov, and for the preservation of historical and cultural heritage in the city of Killia Odessa. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General for delay in investigating a criminal case involving a crime in the elections of the Muchakov City Head of the Zakarpatsk district. Ms. Anatolia NALIWAYKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the prosecutor of the city of Kiev for the violation of effective legislation by some of the directors of the Association of International Automobiles of Ukraine and the employees of its secretariat. Mr. Vladimir NOVACA to the Attorney General for investigating the assassination of the secretary of the Hmelnicki City Committee of the Company of Ukraine, the head of the city council of the All-U.S. Association of Soviet Officers of Schwarzman. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Minister of Defence for the establishment of the “Veteron of Special Risk Unit” status to veterans of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. RAISES OF THE wealthier to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Kiev City Head, the Prosecutor of Kiev for the Compliance of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster” regarding the granting of benefits to the affected children and their parents. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of a modern digital digital cardiograph at the Johnopil branch hospital in the area of Zidomir. Paul MATVIENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on how to pay compensation for lost immovable property in the event of eviction or self - relocation from radioactive contaminated areas to elderly citizens. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine for violations of the President's decree on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agricultural sector of the economy. Mikoli Shershun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection for the Blackwater Disaster in connection with inadequate travel to sanatorium treatment for disabled persons and participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES disaster living in the Bereznov region of the Plain region. John YVANCHO to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the rightfulness of Mr. Hicka’s stay in the position of the Kamyan village head of the Irsav region of Zakarpat. Ms. Alexander MOROZOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the organization of the activities of insurance companies in internal affairs. VALLERY TO THE Minister of Agrarian Politics, head of the Odessa District State Administration for the privatization of land by residents of the village of Szczerbank of the Odessa region. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for delaying the execution of the ruling of the Kyiv Master Court in the case of the recognition of property rights and the collection of damages for the solicitation of a limited liability “Agro-firm“ Crop” of the Yagotin region of Kiev to a limited liability association “Dnipro-Don Trading” of Kiev. YEUGENA HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the unjustified raising of prices for documents related to the preparation and certification of drivers from 20 to 100 times and the dissatisfaction of the Ministry’s response to the request of residents of the valley region of Ivano-Frankiv region to resolve the problem. Vladimir NOVAK to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for assisting the disabled of the Great Homeland War in getting a car with manual control. Valery YEDOKIMOVA to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the European Integration of Ukraine on the legality of the management of the State Enterprise “Southern Fish Search” and the Arbitral Manager. Boris TARASJUKA and Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, Head of the Herson District State Administration, Head of the Herson District Council for the Dissatisfaction of Housing and Utilities in the Village of the Great Alexander of the Herson Region. Anatholic to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the delay in the conduct of the case by the Olev District Court of the Žitomir Region regarding the suspension of the authority of the village head of Sweet and the legality of the decision-making by the village council of Novobilocorovic. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the restoration of the energy supply of Terezina’s coat of arms in the region of Kyiv. Paul Silent to the Head of the National Television and Radio Board on the broadcast of the anti-Ukrainian TV “Vokna” with Dmitr Nagyev on the “New Channel” of Ukrainian television. Vassila ZUSKA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, for failure to perform its duties as officials of the High Council of Justice. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the misconduct of officials of the State Tax Service in the Mikolayiv region. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy, Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Head of State for the Affairs of the President of Ukraine on the threat of the elimination of the oldest Ukrainian children's newspaper “Star”. [[BLEBEDOVSKI, BLACKWOLEN, TOMENKO]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the verification of the non-target use of budgetary funds allocated to the construction of housing for military personnel of the Security Service and the penitentiary system of Ukraine and members of their families, the use of measures to implement the “Company Mikon” court's decision on the use of the specified funds for the purpose of appointment, the cessation of violations of legality and the involvement of guilty persons in the legally established responsibility. Valentina ZUBOVA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, regarding the disbandment of a military unit stationed on the island of Pervomayski in Ochakow, and the resolution of the issue of the further use of existing infrastructure on the island. JANUARY to the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the contradictions between the agricultural production cooperatives Orbita and Živnica during the restructuring of the agricultural production cooperative “Prodmash” of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. JOURIA KARMAZINA to Omelchenka’s urban head, Alexander Alexandrovitch, for taking urgent action in connection with the violation of the constitutional rights of housing and the adequate standard of living for the many children of the Jaroshevich family of six minors and two adults who have been living since 1998 in a temporary home consisting of one dormitory room. Dear colleagues, there's still here. Another MP's request. MICHAEL YAKOVICH’S will to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the illegal involvement of the Ukrainian Security Service in the affairs of Ukraine’s independent trade unions. All the parliamentary requests that have come have been made. Please, Yuri Solomatin, on behalf of the MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u2	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. This is the procedure for declaring parliamentary inquiries that is extremely important. And once such a large number has been declared, it remains unclear, first, how many parliamentary requests have been announced, and then the faction schedule. So this is a request that the chairman's final sentence be: the MP's requests are so many, the faction schedule is like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u3	Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to prepare such information and to prepare information after the session, how many parliamentary requests have been made, what the results of their consideration, and according to the factions, the parliamentary requests sent to the relevant officials. Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u4	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't quite understand why there is no Act 5362 in the plenary today on how to amend the Constitution. There's some sort of order decree, and a law that's been in the Supreme Council for two and a half months now, somehow it's gone. It's the same question. So I ask you to include this bill in the agenda as well, where the procedure will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, if the Supreme Council wills, we'll include it. But I would like to say that, despite the fact that this document has been in Parliament for a long time, neither the committee has offered it nor has the faction. We have not considered the decision at the Conciliation Council of this matter at all; there has been no reference to it. Let us move on to the presentations of authorized factions and groups. Catherine Samuelk has the word for a statement from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u6	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear voters, yesterday on the tragic day of the outbreak of the Great Homeland War, women from all regions gathered for the return of our children from Iraq! In this time of 63 C.E., bloodbaths were fought in Brest, and our capital, Sevastopol, was bombed. At this time, the All-Ukrainian Union of Women Workers "For the Future of the Children of Ukraine!" Gathered women in our capital, I emphasize, from all regions of our state. The media call it the number of different -- one and a half thousand, two thousand, three thousand. In fact, up to 10,000 people gathered in our capital to participate in the protest campaign. The better representatives of the Ukrainian people, including the Orthodox people, supported us. Not in Ukraine, I come to the conclusion that independent media are bought, are sold, are engaged. The authorities are agonizing, and for their own salvation, there is nothing to do but avoid responsibility for the crimes committed and committed by the authorities and all those who voted in favour of sending our children to Iraq. Women warn the people of Ukraine: "Be vigilant, remember, if politicians don't now count on human life, then, God forbid, they will come to power, they will do everything to drown the will, independence and human life." Women demand a criminal case against the Defense Minister of Marchuk, who defiantly spoke of the fact that we will only be in Kuwait, which is a weapon of mass destruction. He was the one who told us, and that was just a lie. I want to read to you the address of Imansa Dunn, head of the Iraqi Women's Committee, who addresses all of us: "I very much ask the Ukrainian people to return the Ukrainian contingent from Iraq. No one wants to see the invaders in their own country with guns in their hands. If your children came to the country as guests, we would welcome them with an open heart, as we have done before. In the present situation, we are forced to meet with weapons. That's what I tell the mothers, the wives, the daughters of those soldiers. I'm asking you to step outside demanding that our children and husbands be returned home. And if that doesn't work, you can influence the course of events by refusing to trust those responsible for sending the punks to Iraq, as they did in Spain. And I think it's October.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u7	Boki Ivan Sidorovich of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has a word. Get ready, Proscarat.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u8	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has commissioned me to announce the following content: "In the English newspaper Independent" published the materials of a criminal case in the investigation of the murder of Ukrainian journalist George Gongadze. Among them are portions of police interrogations that monitored Gongadze. For the first time on the basis of the materials of the investigation, the names of the people involved in the murder are called names. Not only on the basis of Major Melnick’s films but also on the basis of testimony from witnesses and performers guilty of the destruction of a journalist, the president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, and then Minister of Interior, Yuri Kravchenko. The next Patriots have taken this unprecedented step, because the Attorney General's Office has been stopping the investigation of the case, and the materials collected may be destroyed. Immediately after the publication in the newspaper “Independent”, the Henprosecutor went into countermeasures, reporting a “work” with the alleged killer of Gongadze some K. This gives grounds to qualify the message as a distracting maneuver, called to cover up the inaction of the new prosecutor's office or to investigate new manoeuvres. [[in quotes]] The Socialists first published the incontrovertible facts of the State’s involvement in the persecution and murder of George Gongadze. This has been confirmed by many highly qualified experts and has not been refuted in court. Life is increasingly confirming that the country’s leadership has been driven by a criminal click led by Leonid Kuchma, who has taken over leading positions in law enforcement agencies that have become the subject of the Uurpation of power in Ukraine. Kuchma, the parliamentary majority and the leadership of the Supreme Council have criminally halted the investigation of a case that testifies to the existence of democracy in Ukraine. For more than a year now, the Head of the Supreme Council has stubbornly failed to report to the next commission on the Gongadze case at the session. The truth about crime and those who organized it is hidden from the people. The faction of the Socialists requires the leadership of the Supreme Council immediately, without delay, to report to the commission of inquiry, the reports of the Attorney General, the heads of the Board and the Minister of Internal Affairs on the progress of the investigation into the murder of George Gongadze. Ukraine must get rid of the thief regime, name the murderers and bring them to justice despite the positions they hold. We are bound by the memory of Georgia Gongadze, a normal human compassion for his mother, a sonly duty toward her mother Ukraine. We must not allow the high - ranking killers of Ukraine to remain in political isolation. The truth about the killing of a journalist will help our people to break free from the regime of thieves in law, and Ukraine will face the world as a civilized democratic state with human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u9	Tamara Proscuratov is invited to speak from the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine united. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I want to bring to the attention of the Ukrainian people and parliamentarians that on May 21-22, the second All-Ukrainian Council of Deputies of Local Councils of All Levels and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, elected by the SDPU(o). At the request of the Council, I have to make a public appeal to the Supreme Council. "We, the participants of the Second All-Ukrainian Council of Local Councils of All Levels and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, representing more than 11,000 representatives of SDPU(o) in the local self-government bodies, express support for the political reform course in Ukraine for the implementation of a proportional electoral system, which will enable a new step towards further democratization of the Ukrainian government, will promote the approval of a multi-party, pluralistic, political system in the state and the formation of a responsible executive power. The proportional system will allow the electoral process to be democratized, made more open, more general, and promote the free will of citizens. We consider the urgent need, the development of an electoral code for Ukraine, as well as the final approval of the election summary by the judicial authorities to eliminate political speculation. Yes, the final decision on the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the President of Ukraine is to be adopted by the Constitutional Court, not by the CBC. As appropriate, local judicial authorities are required to decide on the summary of local elections. Such order will enhance the role of the judiciary in the construction process. We call on the parliamentary political forces to put an end to political speculation and populism in order to stabilize and ensure the effectiveness of the legislative process. First of all, it's a constitutional reform. Secondly, the government's program is being implemented. Thirdly, ensuring democracy and transparency in the electoral process. We call on all the political forces that are part of the parliamentary-government coalition to work closely together to promote and support the only candidate in the 2004 presidential elections. Ukraine is building its own democratic state. The development of democracy in Ukraine has become irreversible. We condemn attempts from abroad to impose our understanding of democracy on Ukrainians, to halt the progressive development of the democratic system. Taught to. plenary session of the 2nd All-Ukrainian Council of Local Councils, Rural, Rural and Urban Heads, elected by the SDPU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u11	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of the Ukraine Region, is invited to speak with a statement from the faction of the Ukraine Region. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u12	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The situation surrounding the question of the appointment of separate categories of persons affected by the accident at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant cannot be of concern. In particular, this relates to the military-responsible reserve that was set up for military charges to deal with the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. This category of population worked on an equal footing with other liquidators in all hazardous zones. And we know that their working conditions were more difficult: they lacked either individual remedies or radiation counters. However, life shows that reality has divided this category of people into two groups: those who voluntarily went there and those who were called by the army to carry out their national duty. There have been many promises for this category, but unfortunately they remain on paper for the time being. The categories of liquidators have been revised under clarification. This was the case with Cabinet of Ministers'Decree No. 523 of 30 May 1997, according to which, to date, the total pension benefit for employees of the military-resourced enterprises, which was paid for military charges to carry out disaster management work at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, is only the amount of basic earnings. All of this creates considerable social tension among the disaster response actors at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Who can now answer these people, why, working on equal terms with others, after receiving the same doses of radiation as they are disabled, those people who have been forcibly torn out of the family and left to tame the booming, so-called, peaceful atom now receive a pension a few times less than the neighbors who went there voluntarily. In any case, when we met in Mariupola with this category of people, Vladimir Semenović Boyko, Alexander Petrovich Kolionari, we were unable to answer this question. And the social tension on this issue is strained, literally, every day. With a view to remedying the current situation, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine has drafted a draft Cabinet of Ministers regulation amending the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 30 May 1997 No. 523, the project proposes to clarify the procedure for the accrual of disability pensions resulting from the injury or disease and the pensions for survivors due to the Chernobyl disaster approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1997, and it is proposed to appoint a pension of earnings that they received on the basis of the actual working time in the exclusion zone, taking into account the nature of the work, place and working hours, irrespective of the period of the payroll. In all cases, however, the remuneration for the calculation of pensions shall not be lower than the amount actually received during the period indicated. The adoption of the draft regulation would remove the social tension among the participants in the Chernobyl accident and establish social justice in the assignment of pensions to the individuals concerned. In view of the foregoing, I would like to request the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt this order as quickly as possible in order to remove social tensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u13	Jaroslav Suchy of the "Trouble Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, on several occasions from this rostrum by the People's Deputies of the Labour Ukraine faction, spoke of the social and political fundamental transformations that have taken place in Ukraine over the last 10 years as a result of radical changes in labour relations. In the normative fabric of existing legislation that regulates these legal relations, there is little room left to live on. Of the 276 articles in the current Code of Labour Laws, it has been amended in one way or another, and not once. However, all these texts, changes, additions have failed to ensure objectively the adequacy of Ukraine’s labour legislation with modern realities and requirements of international law. Then the adoption of the new Labour Code long stands in the order of the day as appropriate and urgent. Eventually, all of us promised the electorate to put order in the labor market and to protect the worker, the employer, and the employee. I would like to remind you that on December 11, last year, you and I voted on the first reading of the concept principles of the Labour Code, which were developed on a parity basis with the participation of all interested subjects of the social partnership — government, trade unions, and employers. Bill No. 1038-1 successfully conducted an expert study to comply with international law, the International Labour Organization. We had the opportunity to finalize the document in six months and to accept it in the second reading and in general during this fifth session. Unfortunately, such opportunities have been lost. It seems that certain political forces are deliberately torpedoing or delaying work in this and other areas of legislative activity. We spent a great deal of time discussing the latter’s right to give or not to grant the employee’s release. It is known that the draft new code provides for a standard by which an employer must make a known trade union of such a decision, and then conflict, if any, is decided in a court of law. It was once, it is now, it is done and done in all the civilized world. We have this problem, for some reason, become a stumbling block, an insurmountable obstacle, a topic of prolonged political debate with the application of elements of pressure, blackmail and opposition. The parliamentary faction of the Labour Ukraine political party is concerned about this development and calls on interested parties to seek a healthy compromise because the cost of delaying the adoption of the new Labour Code is too expensive, it is paid by our voters, they are forced to sign openly discriminatory bonded labour agreements. What's good is practice when a candidate for a vacant city is constantly recommended to sign a release application here, and then the employer will post the date, and no court will be able to establish the truth. The Labour Ukraine delegation recommends and requests that the Committee on Social Policy and the Working Group of the Labour Code prepare for adoption in the second reading as soon as possible, to review and adopt the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u15	Alexander Turchinov, of the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko, prepare Victor Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, the published information on President Kuchma's crimes, the leadership of the Attorney General's Office and the deliberate elimination of unwanted witnesses in investigative detention facilities in any civilized country would have had the power of a real explosion and would inevitably have led to the immediate resignation of the entire supreme leadership of the state. Not the opposition, not the journalists, nor the enemies of Kuchma, but the officers who were directly involved in George Gongadze’s special operations made a leak of information, fearing for their lives. The whole world now knows that the physical destruction of people, representatives of the opposition, independent journalists, is a strategy for the functioning of Ukrainian power. Why do we not respond to such facts? Our faction does not propose, but it requires urgent action on this matter in the Supreme Council. Neither Miroslava Gongadze nor Georgia’s mother, and the Supreme Council, as the sole body of legislative authority, is obliged to establish the truth. Out of fear, the Attorney General's Office has come up with a imaginative version of another bogeyman who seems to have killed a journalist. It's obviously the same bum that killed Alexandrov earlier and stole the protocols from Mukachev. I'm trying to get us a bogeyman instead of Kuchma, but we don't change the maggots to presidents. Dear colleagues, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the fact that we have ordered killings that are dangerous to the authorities of investigative isolation has been fully confirmed. Today, Ukrainian prisons and insulators have become concentration camps of death, where people are subjected to disability, disability, and death. Ukraine's penitentiary system is a death factory where unwanted witnesses are destroyed. And if we do not respond in any way today, there will be no policy left to confront this powerful force at the end of the presidential elections in Ukraine. These politicians are just being sent to the crematorium. Today, they are waiting for us to swallow their dark deeds this time. In the meantime, the authorities are issuing new death sentences that can apply to each of us. Dear colleagues, today this has been the case when the work of the Supreme Council in terms of political responsibility is impossible without the establishment of the truth. It is our moral and political duty to put a dot in this history. That's why our faction needs to hear the Attorney General's report, to hear the report of the Parliamentary Commission, Gregory Omelchenk, who has been unable to get a word for two years, to hear the representatives of Ukraine's penitentiary system about how the death conveyor is operating in their body. It is said that war cannot be considered over until the last soldier is buried. The age of Kuchma will not end until Gongadze’s case is reached until George is buried in the Ukrainian land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u17	Victor Andryovich Yushchenko from the faction "Our Ukraine" is invited to the performance. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u18	I would like to address the issue of amendments and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine in Parliament today. I am convinced that there will be no political power in this room to say that changes to the Ukrainian Constitution are not necessary. Yes, of course. But everyone understands that there is only one way in today’s regime: through the manipulation and revision of the Constitution, to preserve power. So we are faced with a condition that consists of two circumstances that we should consider. First, when we talk about changes to the Constitution, we have to assume that the changes to the Constitution and the subject matter of the October 2004 elections were separate as two different subjects. Only then will we be convinced that the efforts of the government that it is taking in its change and complement initiatives are not manipulation of the national law. Position number two. Of course, all changes that go to the Constitution should require respect for the conditions of legitimacy, legality. Now I'd like to make a little story out of these two principles. On December 24, last year, dear friends, there was a 4105 bill in this Hall, where 276 unknown heroes voted and there is no record of this vote to date. This is how the road of Ukrainian legitimacy begins. On April 8, this year, this room addressed the issue in a second reading and was rejected under Bill 4105. I read to you the conclusion of the Constitutional Court: "By the name of Ukraine, the findings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: comparative analysis of the proposed amendments to articles 76, 78, 81, 82, 83, 85, 87, 88, 89, 90, 93. [[and so 28 articles are listed]] The Constitution and its addition to chapter 16 of the Final Provisions, which refer to the changes to the Constitution in parts 1, 5, 6, 7, testify to their identity as proposed by the law contained in Bill 4105. Friends, we are now offered the third time in six months to talk about the same standards, ignoring the Constitution. Therefore, dear friends, such a good road is paved only by the road to the Ukrainian hell. So when we talk about what we need to make changes to the Constitution, to make and consider, we need to not go through manipulations and the use of the 4180 or 4105 bills that are discussed in this session, we need to go through understanding and consensus to the only option that is being introduced and needed in this room. So we firmly reject any possibility of political support for Bill 4180 as an analogous 4105-amendment bill, which has already been considered in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinsky of the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine and the industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The situation in the fuel sector has caused and continues to cause serious concern for the common people. Since the cost of gasoline is one of the main factors contributing to this, the fuel crisis hit the wallets substantially. I would like to highlight this, real, not virtual wallets of Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, and this does not call into question anyone’s problem in this strategically important area, and we need to look for effective ways out. We stress that the fuel crisis is not a common phenomenon in Ukraine, for it is a similar situation almost every year. Yet, in spite of such systemicity, the structures responsible for this area seem to perceive it with surprise and act only by fact. The last effort was very small, if the price of 95 on most AZS fell to two bracelets 90 copies, I'll remind you that just recently they were 2,20, 2.10, or less, the prices of brands used by ordinary Ukrainian citizens on their old Games and Moscow remain excessively high. This, by the way, respected colleagues, has seen world oil prices drop by almost 20 percent in recent days. This year’s crisis, not even this year’s crisis as such, is a cause of greater concern, therefore, over the state’s fuel policy. Respectful colleagues, no action taken by fact or by post facto, will solve the systemic crisis. Yes, one of the main problems with Ukraine is the lack of sufficient oil supplies. And it's not a secret that the Ukrainian economy is a hostage of a foreign exporter. But it can't be an excuse for politicians, for us and for officials who would want to hide the problem of efficient management of processes on the basis of the thesis: "Naftha is the main factor in economic development." This naphtha approach will turn into a dead end, for stereotyped thinking has never been an engine of progress. In view of these negative trends in this area, we believe that executive structures have: the first method of solving economic issues should be to analyse, predict and stimulate, and to do so we need to develop systematic development programmes for both the economy as a whole and for specific sectors, taking into account all the risks posed by external and internal conjuncture. Only nonsystemic approaches cause systemic crises. And the second is to translate the issue of diversification of oil imports from controversy into reality. Economic growth, national security requires overcoming the opposition of those who are economically or politically interested in monopolizing supply sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up for the speeches by MPs and factions, were given the opportunity to have a word. Dear colleagues, two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and BUT -- call for a recess, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Conciliation Council. A break of 30 minutes is announced. To the heads of the MPs and factions, please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Break until 11 o'clock, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions -- the Block of Our Ukraine and the Block of July Timoshenko -- was declared a break of 30 minutes. During this break, we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council to offer these two factions. Approaches, procedural points and substantive points were discussed with regard to the consideration of draft amendments to the Constitution. Such suggestions were made. The first suggestion to postpone consideration of this issue is to form a coherent or agreeable group to work on the bill under number 3207-1. The second proposal was to consider two bills now, as previously agreed on by the Conciliation Council. This is Bill 3207-1 and 4,180 in this order. The third proposal was to consider today and make a decision, that is, to have the Supreme Council determine the Law 4180. Then we set up a bargaining group and agree that this group will work with the wishes that have been expressed, Bill 3207-1, and on Wednesday, the Supreme Council will also take a decision on it and refer it to the Constitutional Court. And in order to have confidence, factions will sign an appropriate treaty for the preparation of such a document. There was another suggestion to consider drafts in the absence of a common view, to determine tomorrow's decisions. It was an offer by Alexander Alexandrovich. However, it was not put to the vote, as more votes were raised to consider the two draft laws now, to allow all the deputies to speak, to express their position and to allow the Supreme Council to decide freely on these two bills. In principle, that was the decision. As an elder, I cannot help but be able to speak up to Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." As one of the elders of our Parliament, no one can say that during my activities in this Parliament, I have taken any position that is particularly directed towards one party or another, I think only about Ukraine's interests. That's what I'm trying to say. Starting with the election of the President, every candidate in the Presidents will speak on his own agenda. The people will choose the President as a person and as this program that he will offer to the people. But it turns out that when we go to the Presidents, we go to one Constitution, with one program, and if we take 4,180, it turns out that it's in a completely different situation than the one from which he started his election campaign. Thus, it is virtually unknown what the people should vote for. And this mess that throws itself at the people is made by our hands. That's why I don't think we need it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u24	Thank you. Please state your position from the two parties who took the break. Who will act? "Our Ukraine" and BUT. Who will act? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u25	Dear friends, I'd like your attention. After the Conciliation Board is held, there is a feeling. Thesis number one. 4,105, a bill rejected by the Supreme Council. 4180, the bill that is proposed today, which is identical to 4,105, is therefore not legitimate. So today we have two options: either we're going along the illegal road, going along road 4,105, or we're finding a bill, like 3207, legally pure, on which we're focusing all the meaningful reconciliations that are today controversial for the political forces. In other words, 3,207 is a legally clean document, according to which the Constitutional Court did not say that it is identical to what we considered. It's a good place to make a working group, to find understanding in the constitutional process, to fill in the content that can be put to a vote that would effectively support 226 and 300 national MPs. And another line, especially important. Friends, I'd like to go to everyone on the left and on the right and to those who haven't identified themselves. I would like to emphasize that the fundamental issue of constitutional reform is whether or not to change power. Option 4180, what does it offer? It comes on October 31st, there is an election in this country, and the power remains constant. The Prime Minister remains, the government remains, local governments remain. Then, dear friends, we must recognize that the 4180 is nothing but manipulation, how to preserve power, and not make this country democratic and create a harmony of relations between parliament, the President and the government. So once again, we want to emphasize, if we've set the goal of democratizing the relationship between the branches of power, we have to choose a legitimately clean path, commandment number one, that's 3207. And secondly, avoid the Westerns, which is called the manipulation of the Constitution in order to preserve power for today's power structure. I'd like to take these two positions into account, and that would be quite a compromise for us to move constructively towards political reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u26	Alexander Alexander Moroz, please. Freezing, turn on the microphone, please, from the temporary special commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich. A temporary special commission was working on projects to be discussed today in carrying out the Supreme Council’s mandate. What Victor Andriyovich says about 3207 is presented in a document from a temporary special commission. And this document needs to be discussed today and decided upon. If "Our Ukraine" will vote in favour of this project, its prior approval and vote in favour of it also during final approval, it gives full assurance that we will have about 400 votes in favour of the changes to the Constitution, and it will remove any suspicion in society as to what this has been done on a political order or, as a result of a specific political situation, it is linked to the election of the President. Because everyone understands that in an existing system of power, the Constitution does not change one or the other system of power. Because personal performers are who they are today. They're represented in the session room, they have, for example, power in Parliament. And thinking that we wrote down a change to the Constitution by voting for one or the other position, and that changed everything in society, no. This is just the beginning of a process that needs to be initiated today. But there will be no deception here. To trust each other. So we have to vote 3,207 to discuss it. He is prepared for this kind of acceptance. And let's talk about 4,180 and figure it out. We have until September of the month enough time, enough time to find a compromise solution. And I'm pretty sure in a positive position for "Our Ukraine" it's going to be 3207. And I urge you to take this step, because blocking is now giving you absolutely nothing. That's one thing. The other one. We understand very well that we have only one session week left, actually two, three effective days to vote. If we don't want any changes to the Constitution, we have to say, "We don't want any changes." If we want the changes that give us room for democracy to improve people's lives, for everything else, let us do the way that the Temporary Special Commission proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u28	Dear colleagues. Calm down, please, that's it. No need, dear fellows. Calm down. Dear colleagues. Calm down, please. We're on our way. I'm acting according to the Rules. Dear colleagues, your proposals have been made. I'd like the Supreme Council to determine what the Supreme Council wants. What she's planning on doing. Calm down. Doesn't he want to? I guess so. So, your honors, please take your seats. Everything will be democratic and transparent. So the proposal was a conciliatory council to look at now and get more votes for two bills in this sequence -- 3207-1, 4280. I'm voting on the decision of the Conciliation Council, please vote. [[12:02:47]] For 289 Well, the Supreme Council has made a decision, Your Honor. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukraine" - 58, Communist faction - 57, SDPU - 39, Dem. Initiatives. The People's Government" - 29, Labour Ukraine - 29, National Agrarians - 19, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 17, NDP, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 10, Center - 0, non-fractional - 11. As you can see, this is the moment of deployment. So, what do you say? Please. For the purposes of this decision, please inform the people’s deputies. Order 4180 P-2. Well, let him know. Well, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u29	The content of the decision comes down to the next. In view of our listening to the radio, it is likely that it is necessary to understand what we are talking about. To review the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Registration numbers 3207-1 and 4180 at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on 23 June in the order laid down by the Rules of the Supreme Council with the following features: first, to report to the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on draft laws amending the Constitution within 15 minutes of each bill. For answers to each interview within 10 minutes. For the presentation of each of the bills with a separate view on its presence from the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Ukrainian Temporary Special Commission on Drafting of the Bills of Amendments to the Constitution, up to ten minutes. For the speeches of the leaders of the deputy factions and groups in the Supreme Council, up to five minutes for each speaker, for the speeches of the national deputies, up to thirty minutes, three minutes for each speaker. Secondly, after the discussion, I am voting on the previous approval of the draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 3207-1, 4180 - I read in such a sequence because we have decided before this vote, and proposed by the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft laws of Ukraine on amending the Constitution, amendments to the order in which these bills are discussed. In doing so, the proposals on the inadmissibility of bills or parts of them for reasons of inadequacy with articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine are not being considered. Second, this decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. This is the content of the project proposed by the Temporary Special Commission in order for the Supreme Council to determine the procedure. So it can, in principle, be voted on. I can answer the questions if they arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, let's talk about this. Sit down, please. In the course of the discussion. and then we'll decide before the vote. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to the vote on approval of the draft ruling, which was reported today by Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovitch number 4180-p-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u31	I signed up for the show from the rostrum. I beg you to give me your word. Look, I'm in the middle of a discussion. I beg you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u32	Sit down, then! Please vote. [[12:07:08]] For 278 Decision taken. Please report Bill 3207-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u33	I decided to sign up. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I signed up by decree. Give me your word by decree. You were supposed to give your word before the vote. Before the vote, well, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, come on, the rules haven't been canceled.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u34	I say again, sit down! I asked you to sit down, even if we discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u35	I signed up from the rostrum, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, look: Carmagine was the first to sign up. See the decree: Carmazin was the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u36	Zarubinsky's first.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u37	No, it's Zarubinsky's project. After the decree, Karmazin was the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u38	Microphone, please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u39	It's an anti-government coup.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u40	Well, what are you doing? Well, we're talking 3207. Let's even discuss it!
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Of course, I can report from the place. But I think it's the Constitution. So if necessary, take a 15 - minute break, or whatever, but this document needs to be considered not only by procedure but also in an environment that fits this document. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, take a break for 15 minutes. And let's see how we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u42	One moment, please! Now I propose that we hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u43	I suggest we hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council now. As long as there is a meeting of the Conciliation Board, please consider the ratification documents led by Zinchenko. Is there no objection? Let's work then, everyone, please. I ask the leaders of MP groups and factions to gather in the same place. We'll talk for half an hour. During this time, please consider ratifications. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. Let's talk about ratification. Dear colleagues, we are discussing ratification issues. A document, registration project 0171 of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict, is being announced. Reporter - Minister for Family, Children, and Young Valentina Ivanovna I'm asking in the rostrum to give Valentina Ivanovna and we a chance to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, give us a chance to make a statement. Valentina Ivanovna, please report. It's three minutes. I ask that you be able to speak and discuss ratification issues. Valentina Ivanovna, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! Having ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1991, Ukraine assumed a commitment to the world society to ensure the rights of the child in accordance with internationally recognized standards. Since the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, many changes have been made in national legislation in accordance with this Convention. First. The Supreme Council passed the Child Protection Act. It's different. She passed the Law on Social Work with Children and Youth. Third. Ratified Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Use of Children in Trade, Child Prostitution, Child Pornography. The drafting of this bill on ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Non-Participation of Children in Armed Conflict is a matter of widespread recognition by the World Society of the need to take additional legislative measures to prevent children from being involved in armed conflict, to understand the relevance and necessity of Ukraine's participation in international agreements that protect and guarantee fundamental human and personality interests. The optional protocol is aimed at increasing the protection of children against involvement in hostilities by increasing the minimum age, voluntary recruitment of persons to the national armed forces of the State that have acceded to the optional protocol, compared with the earlier UN Convention on the Rights of the Child at the age of fifteen. In accordance with article 3, paragraph 2, of the Optional Protocol, the bill contains a statement by Ukraine regarding the minimum age of voluntary entry into military service to the national armed forces, which is determined at 19 years of age, as well as a guarantee of compliance with the provisions of national legislation solely on the principle of voluntary admission of citizens to military service under contract. Dear colleagues! The bill is agreed on by the relevant committees of the Supreme Council. An informational optional protocol from the 191st nation that are members of the United Nations has already ratified 116 states of the world. And I propose ratifying the Optional Protocol on the Non-use of Children in Armed Forces and on Installation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u46	Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna, of course. Have a seat, please. Three minutes to ask, Valentino Ivanovna. Deputy Carmazin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u47	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear Valentina Ivanovna, you are now proposing the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflicts to ratify. It has been envisaged since the age of 19 to participate in armed conflicts. How, please, can you tell us to act today if we have an 18-year-old suit? How can we then separate who will be involved in armed conflicts, who won't, if when a person took an oath, it's from an 18-year-old? This person is already responsible for all the consequences. How do you propose practical? And what does the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense think about this? Yesterday, you know how you feel about what happened to the kids that got kicked out of Boden yesterday, I mean with the face of Boden, and yesterday their parents, from the second exam, threw the kids out in the woods of Ukraine, because Genstab had little room. Yesterday, my parents blocked the move literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, if you knew very well the legislation adopted by the Supreme Council, including the deputies of previous calls, you would know that according to Ukrainian legislation, the following categories of citizens and, on the following grounds, are being summoned to the National Armed Forces. First. Called for military service in peacetime. After 18 years of age, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. Second, admitted to military service under contract under article 20 of this law after the age of 19. And the third, admitted to military service, is a higher-ranking military training facility or a higher-ranking institution that has military training units at the age of 17. Article 20, the point is that ratification of an optional protocol of this is distributed to the second category that I call a category, are accepted for military service by contract. In the law, article 20 says, "After 19 years." And we have absolutely no disagreement with our existing legislation. It's something we've probably adopted before. And now we confirm this by ratifying an optional protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u49	Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u50	Dear Valentin Ivanovna, I think we must still make a decision today and ratify this protocol. His importance is understandable. And yet I would ask you to stress separately what problems and disadvantages may be, if we, God forbid, do not accept this protocol today. Because part of the hall seems to be very easy on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u51	This optional protocol was signed by the delegation of the country on September 7, 2002, when the summit of heads took place in New York, the Millennium Summit. And the ratification by signing this protocol by Ukraine reaffirms its commitment to international standards, international standards, and international instruments related to the protection of children’s rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u52	The Microphone of the National Deputy of School. Valentino Ivanovna, time's up. Have a seat, please. Correspondent to the committee's head in foreign affairs. I'm sorry. First Deputy Head of the Committee in Foreign Affairs, Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich. Please have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u53	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished fellow MPs. The Committee considered a draft Ukrainian law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of an optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict. And I approved recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine his acceptance as a whole was unanimously approved. This optional protocol was signed in New York on September 7, 2000, by the President of Ukraine. The ratification of the protocol will promote the image of Ukraine in the international arena, the confirmation of social orientation, its external and internal policies. The adoption of the law does not provide for additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine, nor does it provide for the adoption of new laws of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert bodies, the Health, Maternal and Childhood Committees, youth policy, physical culture, sport and tourism, national security and defence committees, European integration, human rights, national minorities and international relations recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the protocol. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u54	Any questions, please? Have a seat, please. Are they willing to speak? There's a record. At the request of the deputies, Yuri Solomatin. Next Carmazine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we are considering a draft law that contains some contradictions. These contradictions stem from global contradictions that are common in our world. There are countries of the golden billion of humanity and there are the zgo countries, and the children are those children that belong to this golden billion of humanity. They will be protected by this convention. Those children who belong to the self-determination countries, especially Palestine, who fight for their independence. They'll be acting on different laws. And Palestinian mothers bless their children just as our mothers have blessed their children during the Great Homeland War, regardless of their age and age, to fight invaders and invaders. So let's not make any lights out of this protocol, and we'll remember what I said. Of course, it would be better if there were no armed conflicts in the world, so that our children would not fight in Iraq, so that they would not be hired, so that they would not come to us again and again in this sessionary hall to emphasize to the authorities, that looting authority: "Return our children from Iraq! They're supposed to be here! They have to build the Ukraine that is! We need them here! Let the children of the Americans, of the Germans, of the French and of the others be there to resolve the questions that are before this golden, so-called society." We have to do a lot of things that we have to do. Of course, our faction supports this bill, and we will vote for it. But over and over again, what I'm saying is that it doesn't essentially do the tasks that lie ahead of that part of humanity that fights and chooses its independence before the predatory attack of the world capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u56	People's Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u57	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'd like that. So that every law that we ratify or sign or report from this high rostrum, we make one requirement -- our Ukrainian national interests, and nothing more. Convince me, what is our national interest in signing this convention on behalf of Ukraine on September 7, 2000 in New York City? It's that we're now being summoned at 17, 18, 19 years of age, that we're being sworn in before we're 19. And you all know that. Maybe the minister doesn't know that? And Carmazin knows that. And you told me I didn't know anything. I want you to read carefully into the protocol you're proposing to ratify right now. You write, more faithfully, this protocol states that a child before reaching the age of 18, and you continue to write, "Participants States ensure, article 2, that persons who do not reach the age of 18 are not subject to a compulsory appeal to their Armed Forces." I say this is contrary to our current national legislation. Moreover, we are immediately faced with the question that our people today carrying weapons in military accounts should be expelled from there. Read the second article by someone in the government. You don't want to read the article, you don't want to read the other one. And because of this one. It is convenient to ask the question of ratification, I am addressing you today, the High Commissioner of the Supreme Council, who is today. You are currently in charge of the plenary session: Alexander Alexiyovich, there is now an anti-constitutional coup in the state, Bill 4180 of the Moroz decree, which he will extend, that the inadmissibility cannot be imposed, that is, when under the Rules the inadmissibility can be imposed to any moment of any law. And you continue this anti-constitutional rebellion. I think these things should be called their names. I was enrolled in this statement, I was denied the right to speak, I did not have the right to speak to other deputies, and they react normally. That's why I want you to see it. That bill they're proposing, the draft law, is written that "it guarantees compliance with the exclusive principle of volunteerism in the process of acceptance by contract" only by contract. So part of the second of this convention and what we ratify are a little bit different things. I'd like to ask this law not to be ratified yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u58	National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u59	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yuszczenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I'm on record. Let me give you a few thoughts on this. I just want to remind myself and you and our voters that by ratifying this convention, it immediately becomes the law and actually becomes the body, the material of our Ukrainian legislation, and it starts to act as our own Ukrainian law. As a result, I join my colleague, George Carmazin, in order not to waste time on those arguments. On the other hand, I'd like to say something. I don't think we're doing what we should be doing today. Societies, indeed, are three major problems today that hang over Ukraine: the first is the whole world today talking about the situation that is around the death of our fellow countrymen, Journalist Gongadze, that's one problem; the second problem is the attempt of a constitutional coup; and I would call the third problem that we're not talking about today, which is the life of our people, the social state of theirs, that we were able to dissuade from the government of seven stolen billions of dollars, but seven more of us have never been rejected, and it would be necessary to do so before the end of the session today, and not to enforce bills that no one will actually do. And in closing, I would like to say this, first of all, to our voters. Dear colleagues, we are grateful to you for the Victor Block. "Our Ukraine" and other national MPs are for responding so warmly to the idea of creating a monument to an unknown Mukachev bandit who broke the election. I want to tell you that in the corridors of the Supreme Council there is already a project of this monument. He caused a very violent reaction. This is where people come in to recognize themselves. He recognizes the ear, he recognizes the nose, he recognizes the chin. This is a wonderful monument, such a man holds the Constitution of Ukraine between his feet, and his pockets look like stolen snakes. It looks like a lot of our leaders: a little bit of one, a little bit of the other, a little bit of the third. He was on his mission to the Supreme Council, and today, during a lunch break, this monument will be relocated to the national review of Maidan Independence. I am pleased to say that many areas are already ordering a copy of such a monument to be placed in the center of the city, their district centers, and then the circuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u60	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Committee's conclusion is to support the draft law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol. This is the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict. Project registration number 0171. Please vote. [[12:30:45.]] For the 320. Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on Persons taking part in the European Court of Human Rights is under consideration. Project registration number 0177. Reporting Minister of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u61	Dear Lord Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You are invited to ratify the agreement signed by Ukraine, along with the other 38 European states, which is to become part of Ukraine's national legislation, which is to guarantee the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Ratification of the agreement requires ensuring that Ukraine properly fulfils its obligations under the 1950 Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocol 11 thereto, which is an integral part of this convention. The agreement obliges the countries that have acceded to the convention to ensure that those who take part in the proceedings that have been violated in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms can be entrusted with persons, consultants, lawyers, applicants, representatives of the parties to the court, witnesses, experts to use immunity from prosecution in relation to their actions before the European Court of Justice, as well as with the freedom of communication with the court and the freedom to travel with the mark of participation in its trial, that is, so that no one can prevent people from resorting to the European Court of Human Rights and to ensure their right to participate in the proceedings. The agreement provides for immunity from court proceedings concerning oral or written claims made before the European Court of Human Rights or to it or to documents or other evidence given to the court to persons who take part in the conduct of the court, the right of those persons to unhindered correspondence with the court. In addition, the agreement provides for special conditions for the application of the right of correspondence with the European Court of Human Rights for persons under arrest in the country, such as Ukraine. In accordance with the agreement, persons who take part in the conduct of the European Court of Human Rights are also given the right to freely move and travel for the purpose of participating in court proceedings and return after court. In countries of transit and in the country where the process is taking place, such persons cannot be prosecuted or detained or subjected to other restrictions on their personal freedom in connection with actions or convictions that took place prior to the commencement of their journey to court. Today we have the full text of this convention, which is being largely observed by Ukraine today. But in order to have legal security for Ukrainian citizens who want to defend their rights outside the national judicial system. We have to join this convention today by supporting the ratification of this project in Parliament. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u62	Thank you. Sign up for questions. People's deputy to the Greens. National MP Panasovski, faction of Ukraine, please microphone. Deputies of the People, the faction of the Communists. The word is given to the national deputy Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u63	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, please tell us whether Minist controls the number of rights that come from Ukrainian citizens to the European Court of Justice. That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question. What and how these people are doing today in order to prove themselves right in this court. Do you know how often the most common questions are referred to the European Court of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u64	With regard to the first question, I cannot say that Minust can control all comings, these are the rights of our citizens. We have the court, the court reports separate statistics on the coming, and we are sure to report on the cases that have been taken into consideration. Those who accept are going to communicate with the government to explain our national legislation, the actions of the judicial system, why man has not been able to protect himself in Ukraine. And with each year, the number of cases is increasing. We had a tendency, if we had a couple of cases there first, then 10, 20, they're already doing hundreds of these things. The second part of the question is why they're talking the most. Today, there are apparently three major groups that can be identified by the situation today. The first, the largest group today makes a reference to civil or criminal procedure before the courts of Ukraine in terms of procedural requirements and terms of reference. The second group refers to the failure to enforce judicial decisions and in particular to the part that has such a specific feature in Ukraine where there is a violation of citizens' rights through the actions of individual laws, in particular the law that prohibits the alienation of property of state-owned enterprises for payment of debts, including on wages, which we now have in this case brought before the European Court of Human Rights and is already filing for consideration in Ukraine, so that the law that violates the convention is considered by Parliament. I hope that he will be in Parliament in the near future. There is also a group of cases involving torture in the Ukrainian penitentiary system. This is the third group. There are others, but they are, well, isolated cases. For example, regarding the management of property, the right to own property, that is, there are other matters that are being dealt with immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u65	The Microphone of the National MP, Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u66	Alexander Volodymyrovich, you're an experienced minister and our colleague, please speak briefly, because I know you're watching until the time is up. I have a question for you. Short. First. We think we need to ratify this convention, otherwise how people are going to work, how to refer to the court. But tell me, as far as I know, I've talked to dozens of our citizens who have submitted this application to the European Union to defend their rights, they are virtually incapable of taking advantage of these opportunities today because of their material status. Surely we need order with the ratification of this covenant, and we need to anticipate some support from these people so that, on the part of Minust, there will be help from the Supreme Council. Otherwise they won't be able to get there or file documents, and they don't have enough money.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u67	And that's a very important question. It applies not only to the protection of the European Court of Human Rights but also to the courts of Ukraine. And this is about providing free legal aid to those citizens who cannot afford it themselves. So I totally agree with your proposal, and you understand that it is in Parliament's exclusive competence during the consideration of the State Budget Act. We've been asking these questions to the budget and last year, and please confirm this in your consideration, and it will certainly be used for legal aid to Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u68	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Have a seat, please. Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev, first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs. Communicator, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I'm right to ask you to step away from the rostrum, because I'm not going to report 4,180. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished fellow MPs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the bill and approved its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, approving, underlining, unanimously, representatives of all factions. The European Agreement on Persons taking part in the European Court of Human Rights trial was concluded in Strasbourg and signed on behalf of Ukraine on 22 May 2003 by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, who has just spoken before you. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that Ukraine properly fulfils its obligations under the 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocol No. 11 thereto. The agreement obliges the parties to ensure that those involved in the proceedings violated by the provisions of the Convention and the Protocol are able to enjoy immunity from prosecution in respect of their actions in court and to ensure freedom of communication with the court, freedom of travel for the purpose of participating in its proceedings. Ukraine's participation in the treaty will increase the protection of human and civil rights and fundamental freedoms and provide additional guarantees for such protection. The implementation of the treaty will not require additional material and other costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committees on Legal Policy, Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations and European Integration support the bill and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u70	Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up. National deputy, Zebrovsky. National Deputy Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u71	Fucking Communist faction. Oleg Alexievich! Karmazin, don't kidnap Oleg Alekseevich! Oleg Alexiyovich, the question that we are considering today is very important to the people of Ukraine, because we, the MPs, come to us at the reception of various, well, first of all, after the return of savings. More than four thousand of our citizens have appealed to the European Court of Justice on the issue of the recovery of savings. But the European Court refused, and we know that from the press, we know from those documents that came to Ukraine. Why such a decision? There's probably a reason we didn't ratify this agreement with the European Court of Justice. So I'm asking you to give an explanation to our voters. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, for asking. I find it difficult to comment on the European Court’s decision on any issue. Indeed, there was room for the decision that you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, mentioned. But at the same time, I can say that from my survey, when voters and questions cannot be settled in the courts of Ukraine, we have repeatedly appealed to the European Court of Justice. And usually, the court takes up our petitions, then a long period, about a few months, the question is being prepared for consideration, and it's being considered. In fact, more of these questions are being considered for the benefit of the plaintiffs, so our application is satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u73	The Microphone of the National MP, Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u74	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would like to ask you another question that was addressed to the honourable minister. You said in your report that the decision did not require additional costs, budget costs. At the same time, in the course of our communication with Alexander Vladimirovich, we have come to the conclusion that under this European agreement, we need to anticipate the costs for those involved in the European Court of Justice. Because you and I know that 99 percent of people don't take advantage of this right because they're just poor. It is necessary for the committee to make proposals to the budget for this reason to support these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u75	The conclusions given by the relevant committee confirmed what I said in the reports. But there may also be cases where money is needed. I think it's a matter of the Ministry of Justice that will solve it, perhaps from the funds of the Ministry that are scheduled for deployment.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u76	Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Five national deputies were enrolled. Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". The honourable national deputies, in accordance with the treaty that is proposed to be ratified today, are obliged to ensure that those who have participated in the proceedings violated under the provisions of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, with the amendments introduced by the Protocol, enjoy immunity from prosecution as regards their actions in court. In doing so, I want the population of Ukraine to know which often addresses these issues, that in the European Agreement on Persons taking part in the European Court of Human Rights trial, which is now proposed for ratification, it is clearly stated that if, in the course of the Committee of Ministers' exercise of its functions under article 46, paragraph 2, of the Convention, any person referred to in paragraph one above is called upon to appear before the Committee of Ministers or if he is invited to submit written statements to him, such a person is subject to the position of this agreement. [[paragraph 3 of the first article]] So it means that the notion of "court" is both committees, and chambers, and a college of the big room, and a big room and judges. And the term "participation in the process" also includes sending messages with the aim of filing a complaint against a State party to the Convention. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I think the adoption and ratification of this agreement will be a big step for Ukraine. I thank the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Lavrinovich, for the fact that the Ministry of Justice has studied, weighed everything and signed this Convention, but I would like to see that what is provided for in this Convention is ensured in the State. In particular, part two, part three, and there you go. respect is required for the rights of persons referred to in paragraph 1 to unhindered correspondence, not to take disciplinary action in any form, in relation to any report. Today, those who are under guard especially feel this because they cannot do anything without censorship and there is no guarantee today that their letters will reach the European Court of Human Rights. And so I would like to take advantage of the presence here of the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, who was the first chairman of the commission. A commission of inquiry in the Gongadze case, that after the reports that appeared in the Western press, where copies of the records of the prosecutions that are in the Attorney General’s Office, not only Lesia Gongadze or Miroslav Gongadze should defend their rights but should also join the Ministry of Justice. And that is why I would like your voice, Mr. Lavrinovich, to be with ours today, which we call for a transparent hearing here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u78	Vladimir Yavorowski. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u79	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! I'm sure it's from that piece of legislation. The legislation that we have received with you today is indeed the most reasonable, most practical, and this is really the bill that can somehow improve both the psychological and the legal state of the Ukrainian person here, we have in Ukraine. To be honest, for a very long time, Ukrainian citizens had no access to European legal institutions, legal institutions, but today we have to say that Ukrainians in a seemingly independent, decorative Ukrainian state are still in such a legal enclave where their human rights are constantly violated: both the right to access information and the right to their own protection. You could call it a bunch of examples. Starting with the people's deputies, how they're treated. Perhaps you do not know that in some institutions today, some ministries have orders that the first person is not obliged to accept a national MP. It's never been like this before. I'm standing here as a person who, in this year, has experienced all the attractions of Ukrainian justice, this is starting with Judge Morozov of the District Court of Kiev, who has chosen as the head of the National Association of Writers at closed doors, without witnesses, without eyewitnesses and without any arguments. And only thanks to the Supreme Court, which has taken up this issue today, and I think it will look at it objectively already, without the pressure of Medvedczuk and Rafalski and such other clerics from the Presidential Administration. Because the minister of justice offered us today, I'm sure we should say hello. All the norms that have been laid down in this bill, which has become the law for Ukraine since our adoption, it expands the Ukrainian's ability to go to the European Court of Justice. You know, that's where our Ukrainian interests are represented by a beautiful lawyer named Butkevitch, a national MP who was sitting here, if I'm not mistaken, seems to be in the second vocation. But I would like to point out that, according to my information from the post-Radians countries, because the countries of old democracy actually don't exist in the European Court of Justice, they are able to solve their problems at home in their local courts, but Ukraine is in second place after Russia. This is also a lot to talk about. So I urge you all to vote for this bill, it's really good, and it will improve the situation of our voters with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u80	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u81	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The bill states that bourgeoisie is trying to put a marathon on its "democratic" face. [[in quotes]] But according to the national proverb of the bad sheep, even the woolly click. Giving immunity to applicants who apply to the European Court of Human Rights is a very important issue. And, of course, the solution to that question needs to be supported. But that's where it comes from, and it's so important from my point of view. We have a lot of thugs who are also under investigation, and just like ordinary citizens who seek to defend their rights, they try to solve their own questions and to get away from justice. If they turn to the European Court of Human Rights and receive the same application of immunity, I do not think it will be in the best interest of justice. Hundreds, already thousands of cases of our fellow citizens have come to the European Court of Human Rights -- and this is a devastating fact that our fellow countrymen have been denied the bourgeois judicial branch of power in Ukraine. The naive hope of solving the issue is "for a flea" because it's here in Ukraine that you can't solve these issues. There is no solution to the question of a fair trial procedure, a failure to execute court decisions, dozens, hundreds of citizens' appeals to Ukrainian national MPs -- this is the everyday practice of our work. Torture in detention by strong structures. You and I, our distinguished national deputies, know how many times, even in the course of our work with you, we are being treated by so-called power structures. So called, I say, because they are not servants of the people and servants of our state, and they are servants of only those clans, just those groups that are in power today. So despite the fact that there are some shortcomings in this bill, and it sows some illusions, our faction, the faction of Communists supports its adoption, although it does not solve all those issues today, and the very tasks that lie before us as factions of Communists, as factions fighting for national justice in defense of the interests of our people. But we will always do this, including in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u82	Turkish national MP, get ready at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, of course, need to ratify the law and create conditions for our citizens to press charges against illegal decisions before the European Court of Justice. Moreover, every year more and more citizens are looking for the truth in the European Court of Justice. And you have to ask, why? That is why respected colleagues, who have completely destroyed Ukrainian justice. Kuchma's regime completely destroyed the judiciary. And today, the judicial branch of power is an addition to the administrative and penal system. Names of judges like Shastak, Fadeyeva, and so on are just a disgrace to the name of the Ukrainian court. Sooner or later, such judges will no doubt remain on the bench. Today, however, the judicial system has either bribes or political orders alone. Therefore, honourable colleagues, first of all, in favour of this law, we must return to the serious reform of the judicial system in Ukraine after the victory of the democratic forces in the presidential elections. And another problem, dear friends. We are talking about judicial authority today at a time when the Constitution of Ukraine is being destroyed. And it is today that the events imposed by the Supreme Council are no different than the anti - state rebellion. And why? Because the Supreme Council said "no" to try to change the Constitution into a valid treaty at the beginning of the year. Their goal is not to democratize the country, their goal is to remain in power and continue to rule our country. And unfortunately, some opposition forces support this desire of Kuchma, the desire of his environment to remain in power in Ukraine in any way, but not by honest transparent elections. And today, as Ukraine enters the presidential election, they cynically want to cross out the people's very ability to choose power. Because the President, after their proposals, would be a formality that would not interest the electorate, no one in the world. And that's why, dear fellows, we pay attention to such shameful things. Yesterday alone, two constitutional laws were passed out. And even today they are put to the vote, regardless of the fact that each of us has the right to read these laws, even though we understand the disgrace that Ukraine is now causing. Next, dear colleagues. Law 4180 is a complete copy, it's a handful of laws that the Supreme Council has crossed out. And that's why I repeat, and I'm addressing all the national MPs. Supporting Law 4180, stretching it through the Supreme Council Hall is an attempt to leave the power of Kuchma, the authority of its environment, it's an attempt, a second, an anti-government rebellion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u84	Vasily Ivanovich Nadrag. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u85	Respectable colleagues. I think everyone understands the essence of the problem today. We must ratify what will strengthen human rights in the State, which will enable us to consolidate human rights in the State. It is no secret to anyone that the representatives and residents of our State are one of the most active persons in the European Court of Justice and, accordingly, to enable the creation of an instrument that protects the interests of the individual in these trials. It's okay. That is why I think it is only natural that we should vote in favour of this today. But I'm a little embarrassed by something else. In this case, I would like, perhaps, to address even media representatives who are now in the room. Please show a big plan for all those who, when they talk about human rights violations, have made statements today, who are actually going to the rostrum and are talking on the phone, on the phone, on TV about how powerful they are, how evil they are, and what they are doing under the flag is taking care of the State, under the flag of care of the unfortunate people. So, my dear ones, let's talk about the people, about the protection of their rights, not to do what is not part of the concept of the legislative field. So when we want to prove something to someone else, let's leave our opinions to others, not that we won't let anyone off the stage first, and then we'll start to tell them that someone wasn't given the rostrum. So please, my respectable colleagues! Responsibility is not just words, it's actions. I would very much like to see the proceedings in this room today and always as the main criterion for the assessment of the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u86	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u87	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I propose to ratify this bill because each of you knows what situation the citizens of Ukraine are in. None of the cases can be settled without money today in our courts. And a lot of people with labor disputes, and with any other dispute, beat the thresholds of the big heads of big institutions, and they can't find the truth, and they can't find justice. We go with you every time to the Supreme Council Hall and meet these people under the Supreme Council. They knock on the European door, they knock on the European Court of Human Rights. But our state essentially does not guarantee them the opportunity to participate in this trial. The only thing to say is to file documents in some way -- and everything, and the person is cut off from this process, so it's not able to protect their rights. When we ratify this convention by means of this law, we give this person the opportunity, we oblige the Ukrainian State to ensure that this person has a full share in upholding his rights. Let's go back to what's going on here in the Supreme Council. We see that the Constitution of Ukraine is breaking today, we see that the will of the Ukrainian people is being ignored again today. The Ukrainians today realized that most of the Supreme Council -- the President's Administration, along with the Left -- wants to take a coup d'état, they want to leave this power in power, regardless of the people's will to be expressed on October 31st of this year, because with these changes -- the entire power remains in place, and the President's authority is completely circumcised today. And that's why we're not improving power today, we're not bringing it closer to people, we're not providing mechanisms for people to control this power, and today we're going to leave this ruling regime because of these changes to the Constitution forever in Ukraine. And then there will be no good in this Ukrainian state, and then that peasant will continue to die, or that average man will die in this Ukraine. So, honourable people's deputies, let's take this bill into account, and we'll see what's going on in the hall. There is nothing we can do today. Mr. Catherinechuk, don't interrupt me. Therefore, honorable national MPs, do not commit a crime, do not go against the will of the people. Let us vote in favour of this bill and categorically reject those changes to the Constitution that today do not give anything. Do not tell people that if they do not accept these changes, the sun will not rise or the cows will be fed. People will live better than these changes, because you will leave the mafia in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u88	Catherinechuck, the line. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u89	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, however, to take this matter under consideration, to draw your attention to the statement made by the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I quote: "The committee is convinced that constitutional reform, which is, in principle, essential, must wait for the conclusion of the presidential elections to be carried out in a democratic and transparent manner, in clear compliance with the current Constitution and with the recommendations of the Venice Commission." Now we've been looking at a very important issue of ratification. You realize that Ukraine has second place in the number of complaints before European courts. The Russian Federation comes first. You know, if we go in an unconstitutional, non-democratic way right now, and that's what's happening now, because it's just been voted out, which completely repeals paragraph 6.2. 13 The Supreme Council regulations that we must receive with you, honourable members of the people, are the subject of a bill of amendments to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u90	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let me remind you of the committee's conclusion: support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. And the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that he considers appropriate ratification of the European Agreement. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on Persons taking part in the European Court of Human Rights trial, project registration number 0177. Please vote. [[13:07:10]] For 402 Decision taken. As for the next question, colleagues, on a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the use of the Necka airfield. Project registration number 0152. At the address of the Supreme Council and Head, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina received a letter. In line with the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 23, 2004, a project that I have named is scheduled to be reviewed. Please move this issue to the next week. The Minister of Defense is Eugene Marchuk." Will such a transfer be denied? None. Then we'll put it off for next week. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Readmission of Persons residing in the Territory of Their States is under review. Project registration number 0174. Reporter: First Deputy Foreign Minister Jelchenko Volodymyr Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u91	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the Readmission of Persons residing in the Territory of Their States is proposed, which provides for the granting of consent by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to this Agreement. The Ukrainian-Swiss readmission agreement was signed on 11 July last year in Kiev by the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine during a visit by the Federal Adviser of Switzerland to Kiev. The agreement will regulate the admission and transfer of citizens of Ukraine and the Swiss Conference who will be illegally present in the territories of the parties, as well as third-country nationals and stateless persons who are permanently resident in their territories. The agreement was signed along with the Executive Plugin, which is an integral part of it. The plugin specifies and details the basic positions of the agreement, determining the order of its application and excluding the possibility of ambiguous interpretation. According to the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice last August and in accordance with article 92, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 7, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council as it relates to human and civil rights and freedoms. The Supreme Council of Ukraine's agreement to apply the Ukrainian-Swiss readmission agreement will facilitate the negotiation process from migration and visa issues with other countries, particularly the European Union. The draft agreement and the draft law on its ratification have been worked out by all interested central executive bodies, such as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, the bill was reviewed and supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations; legislative enforcement; foreign affairs; and European integration. Dear National Deputies! Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u92	Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up. Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u93	Vladimir Yuriovich, I'd like to hear how serious the problem in this agreement is? Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, have statistics on the referrals of relevant law enforcement structures by Switzerland regarding, let's say, the number of Ukrainian illegals that are either on wages or in other ways need to be shipped or, let's say, were there any conflict situations that require us to solve this problem without delay? And on occasion, I would like you to inform us about a situation that happened with our citizen in Portugal to take away some gossip around this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. On the first question. I wouldn't say that Switzerland and I have some special problems in this field, but first of all, there are really, let's say, a few hundred Ukrainian citizens who are constantly in the territory of Switzerland, some of them illegal. Again, this does not create any problems for our foreign institutions, for the Embassy in Bern, particularly, but problems sometimes arise. I would say that the importance of this agreement is, first of all, that because you know, Switzerland has very strict rules and regimes and, let's say, the implementation of this agreement is Ukraine and Switzerland itself, it will be a good example for the countries members of the European Union, with which, as you know, we have the main problems in the field of readmission. I would also consider this issue in a package with already in force the Agreement between Ukraine and Switzerland on a visa-free travel regime for holders of diplomatic and service passports. So Switzerland and I are creating precedents that are very important for the old and new members of the European Union. This will spur the negotiation process on the readmission issue. As far as ours is concerned. In Portugal, there is a mixed situation. On the one hand, there is confirmation that the Portuguese police believe that he is indeed a citizen of Ukraine, who was legally located in Portugal. The data reported by our press, mostly from overseas sources, that it's some kind of wallet, that it's a criminal, they're not confirmed yet. I can't tell you today clearly that this is really a citizen of Ukraine. Our embassy checks this information, taking into account, as it were, the regime, the football championship, is difficult. I think we'll be happy to give you the final information within one or two days. Of course, it will be reported at the briefing in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u95	Solomon’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u96	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear reporter, please tell me, how does this issue of readmission deal with our neighbours, especially the Russian Federation and Poland? How many citizens and states have been subjected to readmissions in our dealings with these very nations? And how relevant this question is from this point of view and how far it is solved in relation to these nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. I'm not ready to give you the exact numbers right now, although of course I'll do it as soon as I get back, and we'll give you this information. As far as Russia and Poland are concerned. So with Poland, this issue will now be resolved in the European Union field. In Russia, I would also mention Belarus, there are problems. Unfortunately, our Russian colleagues are not as energetic as it is that the signing of such a treaty, or even negotiations, has already been very prolonged, while this is an obstacle, that is, the absence of such an agreement between Russia and Belarus is an obstacle to our negotiations with the European Union. That's why we're acting, so to speak, in two directions, this question will be discussed next July 2nd in Moscow at the x-session of a mixed commission led by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. So we're going to keep pushing, but frankly, I'm not going to say that I'm particularly optimistic about what we're going to make fast progress on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u98	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u99	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Yuriovich, the faction supports you and I will support you, but I ask you to convey the word to Nikolaynka. For Hersonians, this problem of remission is the most difficult. Please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u100	Thank you, Valentina Sergiyevna, Valentina Petrovna. Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, Socialist Party Your Honor, no doubt you have to sign this agreement from Switzerland, but I have a question for you. We are not threatened by the people of Switzerland today, and we have no one to send because they are not coming. What are we doing today to have such a deal with Afghanistan and China and Vietnam, well, and others who have captured Ukraine today and no one wants to take them anywhere. We may not be able to sign these agreements at all, but let them go through Ukraine further, because we're here to catch them, feed them, cloth them, they're spreading them to us today, different diseases, SPIDs and whatever. So what's going to be different, which is what our next steps are going to be, where we're going to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u101	Thank you. The issue of signing the respective agreements with those countries you mentioned is one of the priorities for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because I totally agree with you, the migrants from these countries, I would add Iraq, Nigeria, other African countries, Vietnam and so on, and so on, they are the biggest problems for our border guards, for other Ukrainian authorities. With all these countries, first of all, India, Pakistan and China, we are actively negotiating to sign such an agreement. They're getting tough because no one has a secret, which, for example, is in China and India, to some extent other Asian countries, it's this kind of, let's say, hidden state policy, which is to promote migration by any means legally, illegally, to infiltrate Western Europe. I think we're going to solve these questions. For example, with India, we already have a suitable covenant, as it were, crossed the equator and approached the subject matter of the contract text. Moreover, the existence of such agreements will certainly help us in similar negotiations with the countries of the European Union. So it's not the first year. I agree with you, this is a huge problem for our ministry. So far we're forced to do so in the absence of such agreements, let's say, to follow the strict visa regime with these countries. It helps, but not completely. The question is, it's in control, it's a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. The Ministry's position is clear. Please sit down. Oleg Alexiyovich Grachev, first deputy to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please. Correspondence, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished fellow MPs. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the readmission of persons who are in the territory of States was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine unanimously. This agreement was signed in Kiev on July 11, 2003. The need for an agreement is that it is possible to simplify and accelerate cooperation in the area of combating illegal migration. The implementation of this agreement does not provide for additional financial costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. The agreement does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, nor does it provide for the adoption of new laws or changes to the current legislation of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee on Budget Affairs, on Legislative Security, National Security and Defence, on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, supported the ratification of the treaty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At its meeting on 19 May this year, the Committee on European Integration concluded that it was impossible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill without obtaining further clarification from the subject. At its meeting on June 16, this year, he decided to recommend an agreement to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the obligations of the agreement for Ukraine. Please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters on the ratification of the agreement. And the last. Dear colleagues from the faction of Ukraine! Your behavior today in the hall suggests that the power with you at the hands of Yushchenko will be worse than the power now vested in Kuchma.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u104	Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u105	Dear reporter! Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." I'm very grateful for the attention and appreciation of our bloc and our leader, but let me just say that I immediately have such an interesting interest: and what will be the power in the event of your candidate's victory, because at the age of 70, there are several generations of Ukrainians here today. Do you want to change something, upgrade it? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u106	Thank you for asking. It's not really a topic, but I say, power at the head of the Communist Party of Ukraine is the most just, humane power.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u107	Solomatin Yuri. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u108	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Oleg Alexiovich! Please tell us whether it is possible to apply this readmission bill to supporters of European integration who today are blocking the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and hindering political reform. Is it not appropriate to invite the Swiss Confederation to take all political fighters for life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u109	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. My opinion is that in this room every MP should be able to express his opinion and vote as he deems it necessary. And you don't have to be intruding.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u110	People's MP Demyokhin's microphone. Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. Is there pressure on the performance? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to make more demands on the representatives who report the documents. In particular, so that such documents are reported not only by representatives of one committee but also by others. I would like to draw your attention to the letter sent on behalf of the first Deputy Committee on European Integration of Oleg Zarubinski, which has been in your possession since 24 May 2004. It states that the committee concluded that it was impossible to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a prescribed bill without obtaining from the subject the right of the legislative initiative to clarify all the issues that had been raised. And then the appendix is, "Let's just point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is completely irresponsible and it's related to the drafting of this agreement." Under this agreement, I did not understand: who signed it on behalf of the government of Ukraine? Why is this not written? How many times can you say that? What, Foreign Minister Grishenko doesn't know what order or what? Below the explanatory note is its signature. There's no one else. On behalf of Ukraine, the hamster stands. Who's this hamster's name? Who was in agreement? And how could it be written on behalf of Grishenko that this agreement does not provide for additional financial expenses from the State Budget of Ukraine? But take one ticket from Switzerland alone here, send one person here -- and you say, you need an extra financial expense or you don't have to. That's the first one. Second: Look at the substance of the covenant. And for nothing, the Committee on Euro-Integration, Oleg Zarubinsky, wrote that there were no documents in the material that agreed to the project with the relevant executive authorities. It's written once, "Except maybe the draft agreement is being prepared by an unknown person." That's what I'm quoting, that's not my opinion. Next: "It is not noted that the addition to this agreement is an integral part of it, and that texts in Ukrainian, German and English have the same legal force. Next. Article 2. Readmission of third - country nationals Each party on request will accept into its territory without. the formalities of any person who is not a citizen of either side. At the open border from the east to all: the Chinese, all who travel through Ukraine, will come to Switzerland, and you, the stupid Ukrainians, pay. What? I don't mind if it's at the expense of Deputy Minister Jelchenk or Grishchenk, but it's for the benefit of Ukraine to fund everything. So, Your Honor, we need to prepare these agreements in a completely different way. In principle, such a treaty is necessary, but not such an execution by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I'm drawing this to the attention of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u112	The national deputy of Yavorowski. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u113	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The study of this important document, from my point of view, caused me some kind of short-term separation of personality. On the one hand, it is very meticulous, clear, in which all the smallest mechanisms of the bill are worked out and which documents must be presented both by the party and by the other party, very clearly listed, which can confirm the nationality of the party. Termines, terms. It seemed, well in this respect, really a European kind of bill, which really, at least somehow normalizes all that chaos, all that injustice that has fallen on the head of a Ukrainian employee who's going not just to look at Europe there or Asia, but just to make himself a piece of bread. I mean, from one. From that point of view, it's very normal, but on the other hand, as a Ukrainian, as a citizen of this state, I'm baking that we accept, we ratify such a bill. It's not about the Swiss, who'll get confused here in Ukraine, there'll be alone somewhere, and so on. I don’t think anyone will be fooled by Schengen visas, and in fact almost everyone there has to enter Ukraine illegally. And this is, first of all, about one side, about our side, about the Ukrainian side. And here I'm just remembering and I want to remind our voters that when they asked our president why so many Ukrainian women are abroad today, and this is the most active part of women, so when Kuchma was asked why so many earnings Ukraines, you know what he said? [[Guys, I've seen in the heat of the village where some old grandparents, two or three drunk men, and, uh, give me a break, the dirty kids are running around in the villages, and everyone else is going to work.]] You should have thought of saying, "All decent women are sitting at home." On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I apologize for our leader of our state, for the words that offend every Ukrainian woman who is currently burning there in Italy, in the country and elsewhere. That's why I'm going to vote in favour of this bill, and I think the MPs will also support it. Yuri Anatoliyovich has his own comments, but this is not about the bill, it is about the document. You can either accept it or you can't accept it. I am convinced that it should be accepted, at least it will not harm us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u114	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Yuri Solomatin. Let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Of course, the Communist faction will back this bill, vote for it. But I would like to draw our common attention to some of the things that have to do with his acceptance, his application. We recently discussed a bill proposed by the government, and it was reported by the Minister of Internal Affairs. Part of a bill that dealt with illegal detention. And together, all of us, regardless of our political preferences, were very surprised to learn that according to European law enforcement standards, we had to spend twice or three times the cost of living at a minimum that is valid for an average Ukrainian citizen right here in the Ukrainian state, we have. So that's a very interesting question. This whole legislative framework that we're improving, it's primarily about those outside our country. And if they get to Ukraine, they have to be kept, or readmissioned on conditions, no worse than there, abroad. And we should be surprised to some extent. Next. I'd like to tell you a little bit more of an interesting circumstance. This is before my colleague comes out of this rostrum and says, "Do you know what makes friends different from kindness and lord?" And it informs me, reports that even in Gallicina, this difference is very clearly defined. The companion is a weight of up to 70 kilograms, a charity of 70 to 100, and the ladies are over 100 kilograms. And now I want to say a few words about what's going on in the Supreme Council. He goes to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Conciliation Council of factions, and the Lordship of Our Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko are theatrically posed to the television cameras, sitting at the workplace of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, in front of television cameras and in front of cameras, domination has already entered history. I think this witness will be used if the people of Ukraine properly call us all to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u116	The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Swiss Federal Council on the readmission of persons who are in their territory illegally. Project registration number 0174. Please vote. [[13:34:21]] For 344 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u117	Well, don't break the technique, because you'll have to pay for it, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've been sitting for a long time in the Conciliation Council, and this approach is suggested to us. To preserve understanding, to find compromise, as we did, you remember when two bills were sent to the Constitutional Court when there was a discussion about the need to send one. Now consider two bills. One minute, let's say, consider two bills, make a decision, and in the fall, we'll be smarter, we'll find some understanding, compromise, and we'll figure out what decisions we're going to make. Alexander Alexandrovich, please. Ice cream microphone by Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear colleagues, let's have a discussion, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. I'm talking to all of you again, counting on what the radios are still hearing, and while we're holding meetings there, I've seen some of you speak from the rostrum, and I've already commented on the situation. So we have to talk about what's going on here anyway. Today, the cause of conflict in the session room is the mistrust of one another. Unfortunately, that is how it is. Just like the representatives who stand up for Project 4180, they don't trust, provided, part of the MPs, I'm not going to call the factions that insist on looking at 3207 only, just like others fear that after September of the month, when the presidential campaign is about to go, they will only stand for one position, for example, in the 3207 version, and they will reject the moments that are foreseen in 4180. I'm convinced that voting on two projects today allows us to find a compromise, and we have enough time for that, and in the fall, to make a decision based on 3207. Because when I asked the panellists, I didn't get any particular claim to the content of this bill. More than that, I mean. By working on this project with Anatoly Matthewian, because "Our Ukraine" couldn't then determine itself at some points, we counted every moment, every proposal from the faction "Our Ukraine." What is more, transitions have strengthened some of the points in the direction they are now fully adjusted. So I'm going to say it again. There are two bills to be voted on today. And this is a guarantee that one who takes into account the position of most societies today will pass. This is project 3207. If you have to tell him in fact, I can report it, but you can't do it in this situation. I'm asking you again, let me do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u119	No, it's not. He votes one and the other, you can vote separately, you can vote in a bag. But let's let people get to the bottom of these bills, and that we stand for them to understand why conflict arises today, what they're fighting for. I think that this is the only way to remove this artificial tension.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u120	Dear people's deputies, one minute, there'll be a line. Just a minute. Dear national MPs, one minute. So let's have a discussion so that we can figure out what the national MPs support, which is what the national MPs deny. Dear national MPs, one minute. But since we agreed, and you voted to consider today But time's right. So we obviously need to determine that we should continue to work until the issue is resolved. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please vote. [[13:39:23]] For 282 Decision taken. Well, please, let's show some civilization, but respect me. Asadchev's replica, please. And Frost to prepare for the report. Decision taken. So I'm asking you to set up a security detail here or something? I'm telling you again, we'll be right there if we have to. You're insolent, we're insolent. Let's work civilizedly.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? First of all, I'd like to make up for what Mr. Frost said. In 3207, no offer from "Our Ukraine" is included. I want to remind you of our main proposal and the demand for self-government. We are proposing to cancel the activities of state administrations. I'm telling you, when you say that you're depriving the President of his authority, you're going to stop authorizing state administrations as executives, and you're only going to do them as control authorities. Mr. Moroz deliberately left the State administration as executive authorities. Moreover, he handed them over to the Cabinet of Ministers, left them with all the authority to destroy all the local self - government. But that's not the point. What's important is that what's being proposed is that it's an open illusion and a lie to the entire Ukrainian people, because people, voters, will hand over their authority, their will to the President under the current Constitution. And all of a sudden, within a week, all of these powers will be gone. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. It's an open disrespect to their constituents, it's a lie to them. And this is us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u122	Alexander Aleksandrovich, report. Honorable People’s Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, if there's such an act going on over the Supreme Council, then I'll do it again. . Well, give us a chance to talk! Give me a chance to work! Please, give us a chance to work! Well, what are you doing? Well, do you have a conscience or not? Alexander Alexanderovich, please report. Project 3207. Ice cream microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u123	Deputy Frost, Socialist faction. I'm answering Deputy Assadchev's lines. In a few. I'll report it. I'll start with that. The point is that the draft amendments to the Constitution are being considered under a prior approval procedure. Therefore, all those rules that were not before the Constitutional Court are not taken into consideration, and what Deputy Assadchev says has no bearing on this project. That's the first one. Secondly, he doesn't really speak at all, because I'm referring to this bill that was drafted by representatives of our Ukraine and reported to it by representatives of the Temporary Special Commission. My function as co-chairs of the interim commission was to allow this project to be considered in full procedure. And it was done. So let Assadchev take responsibility for his words. And I want to say a few words about the substance of this bill. And it's going to be the next one. Project 3207 is, of course, essentially different from that project that has registration number 4180. But both of these projects provide for a transition to the parliamentary-presidential form of government. In all the projects discussed here: both under this number, and under other numbers, this idea is, it's in Project 3207 because it's looked at earlier than 4105 and 4180. But there are some features. Project 3207, unlike 4,180, does not provide for an imperative mandate. That's what was bothering the Venice Commission, what was bothering most of them in the session room. But this project does not reconcile the positions of deputy with representation in the Cabinet of Ministers. Next. This project preserves a valid standard of the Constitution on cadence of representative bodies, including the Supreme Council, for four years, while Project 4180 envisages a change to five years. This project envisions a slightly different way to form the Cabinet of Ministers. There is no definition of the legal category of "coalition," because constitutional law, and international experience, and the constitution of other states of that name, have no such definition. The possibilities, the functions of the present and the subsequent majority of future parliaments are preserved. The procedure is as follows: the Prime Minister's office has the right to name, the Prime Minister's candidature has the right to name a party or faction that has the largest number of votes in Parliament. If this political force is unable to form a majority of the parliamentary power and its candidacy does not pass, then the principle provided for in Project 4180 will work. The factions and groups agree among themselves, forming the majority who assumes responsibility for the proposals for the Cabinet of Ministers. However, the President's mandate project is somewhat stronger than in Project 4180 on the appointment and release of the Attorney General, the head of the Security Service and the nomination of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs directly to the Supreme Council from the President, while Project 4180 foresees that all candidates of the Cabinet of Ministers are offered directly by the Prime Minister of the Supreme Council. There's a slightly different impeachment procedure in this project. However, this procedure, if it is necessary to find agreement during the final vote, can be left in good order. Meanwhile, this project envisions a reduction in the number of votes required to announce the President's impeachment and likewise to overcome the President's veto. What else is the difference? It foresees the involvement in the final settlement of the question of the President's impeachment after those procedures that are going through the Supreme Council and the Constitutional Court of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. There was this proposal, especially our Ukraine, that. I think in principle it would be better to leave the political decision behind the Supreme Council, but we have taken this procedure into consideration and leave it as proposed by "Our Ukraine." I mean, the Supreme Court will make the final decision. In this project, the difference between the principle and what is in 4,180, because this project is broader, it refers to a whole range of norms that regulate the functions of local self-government. These norms and these amendments are carefully defined, with references to the necessity of enacting appropriate laws, because this is a very broad topic, and there may be many nuances to be taken into account, not the Constitution. Obviously, to be absolutely certain, it's imperative to determine what these rules are. The Transitional and Ending Positions are also distinguished. What's the specialty? I want to pay attention. Since the representatives of our Ukraine are attached to this view of the change in the Constitution and in the election of the new President, it is obvious that the potential of the political, including the one represented in Parliament, to change power in general would have to be realized. This is about what the present Constitution foresees after the election of the President, the government forms its mandate. In different ways, it's possible. For example, if a government representative, provided that the Prime Minister became President, this is done automatically. What if he doesn't become president? Then he too has the right to demand that this be realized, regardless of his present authority. And that's why this project provides for the introduction of changes to the Constitution not earlier than 1 January 2005. I repeat, since 2005 January 1st. This means that, after the election of President, the Prime Minister is in office, and the government resigns. Acting within 60 days of the election and the personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will receive the overwhelming support of the Supreme Council. Divorced powers of the President and Prime Minister until 2006. And what one of the members of the "Our Ukraine" faction claimed to be here today is, in particular, totally unfounded, because by 2006, through the Transitional Regulations it is envisaged that the appointment, the release of the heads of local administrations remains behind the President, although the functions of the Prime Minister are being strengthened, and there is a process of reconciliation through the convergence of individual candidates, which is an absolutely acceptable practice and practice that has been used in many parliaments and in our own. And not only in Parliament, but also in the exercise of powers by the President and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm on behalf of the Interim Commission, because that was her opinion on this, and I'm proposing to look at this project and support it by voting both for Project 4180 and for those who are proponents of Project 3207. If proponents of 4,180 do not support this project, then it makes it difficult to find a compromise in the fall. Our faction insists that 3207 should be the main project. However, if those in favour of the 3,207 do not vote in favour of the project, it means that they simply deceive society by demonstrating the desire to carry out political reform while not wanting it at all. I remind you that the proposal of our faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is transparent, frank, consistent. [[I'll tell you in this case from the faction of our political party.]] We have expressed our support for such a procedure and its consistency since 1999, without changing our position and respecting the basic document. The Constitution is a state document, not an object of manipulation for one person or another, for one political party or another. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution in 1996, I insisted on being the Head of Parliament. I keep doing this, and now that we realize we don't run, we don't negotiate separately. [[I mean, speaking of our party.]] We are also speaking openly to the President and the Martyr Guard, that if we want to bring about positive social changes, in the state, if we really want to take care of the well-being of a particular family, of a particular person, we need to make changes to the Constitution now to the President's elections, because otherwise there will be no democratic transformations, otherwise it will continue, perhaps from another centre or from other people to trampling on human rights, blocking economic development and all that will ensure the well-being of people. So I would like not to be attached to today’s political company, but to think about a state that will stand here in Ukraine for many decades and many years, and forever must accept such changes to the Constitution and to the election of the President that would work for the interests of such a state. And the essence of our proposals is to democratize social life. If we want to do this, we will vote 3207, and if we want it to go through, this project must also be accompanied in order to be able to find a compromise and remove any contradictions that arise in the session room today, to vote 4180. In the fall, I'm sure we'll meet at number 3207, on that project that we've just prepared for consideration and considered on the interim committee, on all the procedures that are foreseen both by the Constitution of Ukraine and on those tasks that have been made by the Supreme Council to a temporary special commission. And finally, I'm going to go back to the accusations that were made here regarding my position, especially the temporary special commission. I want to remind you that the head or co-chair of a temporary special commission is not the entire temporary special commission. And we were forced, in particular, to take a stand, to listen to the opinion of most of the temporary special committee. But she could not take to heart those norms, those changes to the Constitution that had not been previously considered by the Constitutional Court. And that's why all the accusations that were called here, I repeat, are groundless, illiterate, and remain on the conscience of the one who proclaimed them. Thank you for your attention. I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u124	Sign up for questions. Ten minutes. Onechuk, faction of the People's Democratic Party. No, no, I'm sorry. Yavorowski, please. And then the Kings. Is Vladimir Yavorowski there? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u125	Yes. Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. I remember, about a year ago, when we were still in one, we were the only ones as opposition, and you, and the Yulia Timoshenko block, and our Ukraine, we talked and initiated major fundamental changes to the Constitution. First. This is the choice of heads of district administrations and district administrations who are now completely independent of the people and depend on only one person. This is from President Kuchma. Divorce elections to parliament and local elections. And our third base base was -- this Parliament has to choose all the forces, because we're absolutely clear on what led up to this only Bush administration. This was our only base. What changed your position today? Why did all this change and grow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich, I mean, unfortunately, we were never the only opposition. Because in the summer of last year, your leader said, "We will win by democratic forces without opposition." But these are the details, let's say, political, as it were, nuances. With regard to the heads of district administrations. Remember, such changes were to be made. But such proposals would also be made if changes to the Constitution could not be made here today. We come to this conclusion in a different way -- because of the change in the function of local self-government, because of the point of increasing the functions of councils that are handed over to financial rights and so on, which is regulated by law. And that means that we're going to take these extraordinary powers from the heads of administration in another way, and then we're going to make changes, or we're going to make changes to the Constitution, and we're going to increase legislation, and we're going to solve this problem. Next. It's about the election. You can remember. Please, I'll finish the answer. If you're talking about choice and on a new basis, on a proportional basis, what brought you together, I have a question to you: why didn't you vote in favour of the law on elections on a proportional basis, the author of which was also the representative of your factions? And finally, Parliament is choosing all the forces, and so today this is foreseen in Project 3207. So I would ask you before asking questions, first read this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u127	The king has a word, and then the Roadrunners will ask questions. King's microphone, faction of regions. So the Roadrunners, Sergey the Roadrunners, the microphone, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u128	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Alexander Alexander, please correct or confirm this thesis: I believe that the two sides share one position -- and the party that advocates constitutional reform, wants a sharp narrowing of the President's authority, a denial of the possibility and further development of the authoritarian professional regime, the other party denies it, and wants to preserve the extent of the President's authority to become such a dictator throughout Ukraine! Is it important, then, whether there are other circumstances, since everything else has a subordinate meaning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u129	I'll give you a quick answer. I think the contradiction here is something else: one part wants to preserve the existing system without any change, and the other one really wants to narrow down the President's powers. Compromise is needed, and this compromise is proposed in the Transitional Positions. There is a real danger that all authoritarian authority can be transferred from one office to another. So in Project 3207-1, some functions are now being distributed from the point of view of executive power. Some of the strong positions remain with the President until 2006 and most are transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers, which is formed and controlled by the Supreme Council. So this coalition is being resolved, and we have found, in my opinion, an optimal option that could satisfy everyone today -- and the political forces that are going to the elections, and those who will not go to the elections, but simply focus on the democratization of social life in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u130	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of "Ukraine". Oh, I'm sorry, "Trouble Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u131	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Trudova Ukraine. Alexander Alexanderovich! It is quite clear that each of the national deputies of Ukraine or factions represented here are in their own right to understand the need to accept these Two bills. As for us, the changes that need to be made to the Constitution are, of course, a difficult, tiny daily legislative work, for others, for those who are now out there, it is a continuation of the two-year killing of the session hall, systematic cynicism, systematic and cynical breakdown of the work of the session hall. Tell us, please, for our radio audience, if it's simple enough, what makes changes to the Constitution? For a simple person, it's paper. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm making a proposal: we know two of these bills, we've read them. Let's get right to the vote, but there won't be any of these "chor boys" that he's out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u132	Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u133	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! I don't want to comment on your comments about those who are blocking the rostrum today, because I have to say that their current regime is killing no less than they are doing the right thing. So what action and opposition. Unfortunately, today there is no harmony in power, in society, because the usurped shaft, and the Constitution, unfortunately, does not work today. We must put in place such mechanisms that no one has the right to usurp power. And these mechanisms are proposed, they're set out in Project 3207. Otherwise, they're also pursuing this goal in Project 4180. What does it do? I understand that the whole Constitution is now popular to explain. I can only say that our proposals are about democratizing social life in Ukraine. And that means we can guarantee an efficient economy, overcome corruption, provide jobs for Ukrainians in Ukraine, not abroad. Human rights can then be guaranteed so that journalists are not cut off or killed by MPs, bankers, and others. Then the sovereignty of the State can be guaranteed. Finally, there is a need to change the Constitution, because there is no other way of transforming democracy in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u134	Vasil Calinchuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine, Odeschina Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, you have just reported as one of the authors of Bill 3207-1. But I would like you, as co-chair of the Temporary Special Commission, to give your assessment and Bill 4180. And I believe that most of the articles in this bill also deserve attention. And I thank you for your answer. And I say to Vladimir Mikhailovich: I support the previous speaker, Jaroslav Suhi, that we would have to go to the vote afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! Let me answer that. We voted in favour of Decree 4180-P2, where we clearly defined the procedure. I can't get away from this. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u137	Dear Vassil Antonovich. [[I'm in charge of Deputy Kalinczuk.]] Project 4180 also has many major advantages. If we were to implement the mechanism for implementing this project, for example, if we applied it to the first of January or even later, we would get, of course, an effective mechanism for democracy in Ukraine and for the effective development of our state. But there is one danger that the MPs are saying, of course, that if we delay making changes to the Constitution, and the authorities will be carrying out those principles that are now defined by it and that are implemented by the practice of today's regime, then. No matter who comes, he'll be president in two years, he'll put together a new administrative resource, and then he'll choose Parliament on a proportional basis, which he'll accept, by repealing these constitutional rules, and by introducing a dictatorship that's already been supposedly approved. I think that this danger needs to be taken into account, so given the positive side and the one and the other project, we should nevertheless approximate the introduction of them or the introduction of 3207 into the term recommended in the transitional positions. Then we are freed from the danger that may arise if the present system of authority is preserved.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u138	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Time's up. Fellow dignitaries, Alexander Alexanderovich, reported Bill 3207-1. And with a separate view to this bill, there's another bill that Musiak will make. Victor Lavrentiovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you right now that I've been carefully prepared to present my own opinion. I have a fairly thorough analysis of all the bills and 4180, and 3207-1, and my own proposals, and I would like to present them as well. But in this situation, I don't think that's possible. I just want to say something. This is my general conclusion. Neither Bill 4180 nor Bill 3207-1 in today's edition, unfortunately, I've been fighting for him all along for a year and a half, but in the last edition of the last few days he's gotten the look that they're unacceptable to me in order to be considered as such that they can be finally accepted. What's more, the 4,180 in this paper looks even nicer than 3207-1. I have proposals that are not accepted, of course, and will not be accepted, but these are proposals aimed at creating a mechanism for a real parliamentary-presidential republic. It's exactly what we were told, what we were looking for, and the idea of a parliamentary-presidential republic, which is not in either project. There's all the results of the different trades. And what would I like to tell you? You know, we've been through a very difficult period, a year and a half, not to end it with a farce, an absolute farce, and I think we could send both of these bills to the Constitutional Court right now, let him express his opinion on these bills, and in the fall, finally make a decision. I understand that we are all political and timeless, and some may be drawn to such a saying: When there is no time, it is not friendship, but love. Make it quick, make it quick, vote. I'm asking you, the Constitution is a very sensitive lady. And I'm asking you, be careful, let's be careful in this process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u140	Stepan Gavrish has the floor to report on Bill 4180. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u141	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to join Alexander Alexandrus Moroz' position on the need and importance of political reform in Ukraine. Let me remind all of us that the first stage of this political reform is through the adoption of a series of laws on Presidential Elections, on elections to the Supreme Council and local self-government authorities on a proportionate basis, we have already held. Braking at this stage can lead to the fact that virtually no political reform in Ukraine will be possible. The history of Law 4180 is known to all, but I am nuding those pages that perhaps most MPs are not yet known. In January, when we had a deep conflict over Bill 4105, it was Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and Alexander Moroz who signed the Agreement on Support for Bill 4105 in removing the standards for the election of the President in Parliament. And it was this bill in the next time we discussed the various problems related to Bill 4105 that required representatives of "Our Ukraine" as one that could become compromised. The Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies and factions defined and commissioned the Temporary Special Commission, which for several months not only tried to find the most accurate legal formulas to ensure the interests of the Ukrainian nation, the Constitution and the most effective authority to create systems of balance and restraint. But at the same time, take into account all the compromises and political demands of parliament. It is clear that this kind of parliament that we now see is also the most difficult for the next democratic development system in Ukraine, because it does not solve the main task, it does not set itself programmed political tasks, and it cannot provide them with the proper mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, but it does corporate services for individual political forces -- larger or smaller. It is not enough that Parliament is always under constant pressure from other branches of power that are outside its borders. Hence, without or without a question of political responsibility, he has no prospect in the future. And the non-implementation of constitutional reform for this time threatens us to shift further to an even greater oligarchocracy in Ukraine. Therefore, of course, the awareness of political constitutional reform at this time is a major task, not for individual political forces, but for the nation, for the political elite, if it exists and is ready to take responsibility. Regarding the model of Bill 3207-1, Alexander Alexandrovich told of it. I will not touch this problem as co-chair of a temporary special commission. But what I want to say is that it got worse after it was edited by various political forces that sewed political clothes on their own. So I think it was much better in the first edition. But today we've suggested that we're ready to support this bill in case we decide today that we're taking it off the table, but we're voting next week after a temporary special commission is working on it, and all the basic positions will be taken into account. Bill 4180 is not a calculus of Bill 4105. It is as effective as possible, a document that was sent by a temporary special commission, where there were clearly substantial compromises that had been achieved before, and what we had been asked to do by the relevant political forces. Given the musical mood of those who have always blocked national Ukrainian development, those who have always resisted Ukraine as such, I propose to support, having previously approved Bill 4180, and to send to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion. Dear colleagues, we need to understand our personal responsibility and not be afraid to make a decision that is conducive to the Ukrainian State. I ask the presiding officer to put to the vote Bill 4180 and, having previously approved, to refer to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u142	If you would like to have a copy of this article, please write it down. On board, please, the names that are registered. Lilia Grigorovitch, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u143	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction, Our Ukraine. Stepan Bogdanovich, it's no secret that the journalists have awarded you the nomination "The Disappointment of the Year." From the compatriots of Ivano-Frankish, I want to say that "The Frustration of the Year" is the title you have long been called in Ukraine and in your countrymen. So I want to say two things. In no way is the Ukrainian people awaiting any form of political upheaval today, and the Ukrainian people, murdered by the lowest wage and pension in Europe, are awaiting honest authority, an honest president, and an honest presidential election. The driving force of your initiatives, the fear that a person will finally come, the same one that in 2000 finally gave up the pensions and wages that you owe and the call on which you publish your polytreform today, and you're afraid that finally this people, who will have 200-400 euros in their pockets, will despise you and take you away. That's why I, Stepan Bogdanovich, made a statement from "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u144	I'm asking the faction leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u145	I'd love to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u146	I'm here to tell you what's going on. It's impossible to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u147	I respect that, but I didn't hear that you were telling me that your colleagues were playing parliamentary once again today and proving that they probably had their place in the polls, but not in Parliament. So if you'll excuse me, I'm ready to give you a personal answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, who are in favour of stopping the discussion of all the bills because it is impossible to work. Please vote. [[14:17:15]] For 284 Decision taken. I'm voting on the previous approval of Bill 3207-1. (Noise in the hall) [[14:17:47]] For 118
ParlaMint-UA_2004-06-23-m0.u149	[[Unheard]] [[14:18:13]] For 276 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
